1A. Risk Factors This report contains or incorporates by reference statements concerning our future results and performance and other matters that are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry’s results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this report include statements regarding: • the expected effects of current and future worldwide economic conditions and demand for oil and natural gas and seismic equipment and services; • future compliance with our debt financial covenants; • expectations regarding the completion of our proposed joint venture with BGP; • future benefits to be derived from our proposed joint venture with BGP; • future availability of cash to fund our operations and pay our obligations; • the timing of anticipated sales; • future levels of spending by our customers; • future oil and gas commodity prices; • future cash needs and future sources of cash, including availability under our revolving line of credit facility; • expected net revenues, income from operations and net income; • the expected outcome of litigation and other claims against us regarding our business plan, our technology and our financial condition and results of operations; • expected gross margins for our products and services; • future benefits to our customers to be derived from new products and services, such as Scorpion and FireFly and our full-wave digital products and services; 17 • future growth rates for certain of our products and services; • future sales to our significant customers; • the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new products and services; • expectations regarding future mix of business and future asset recoveries; • our expectations regarding oil and gas exploration and production companies and contractor end-users purchasing our more expensive, more technologically advanced products and services; • the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new products and services; • expectations regarding future mix of business and future asset recoveries; • anticipated timing and success of commercialization and capabilities of products and services under development and start-up costs associated with their development; • expected improved operational efficiencies from our full-wave digital products and services; • potential future acquisitions; • future levels of capital expenditures; • our ability to maintain our costs at consistent percentages of our revenues in the future; • the outcome of pending or threatened disputes and other contingencies; • future demand for seismic equipment and services; • future seismic industry fundamentals; • the adequacy of our future liquidity and capital resources; • future opportunities for new products and projected research and development expenses; • success in integrating our acquired businesses; • sufficient future profits to fully utilize our net operating losses; • expectations regarding realization of deferred tax assets; and • anticipated results regarding accounting estimates we make. These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by risks and uncertainties known or unknown to us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements. Actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations and assumptions. While we cannot identify all of the factors that may cause actual results to vary from our expectations, we believe the following factors should be considered carefully: We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness, and we will need to pay or refinance our existing indebtedness or incur additional indebtedness, which may adversely affect our operations. Any failure to complete our proposed transactions with BGP could result in an event of default under our credit obligations. 18 As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding total indebtedness of approximately $277.4 million, net of a $8.7 million non-cash debt discount associated with the $40.0 million in Convertible Notes, and including capital lease obligations. Total indebtedness on that date included $101.6 million in borrowings under five-year term indebtedness and $118.0 million, excluding the non-cash debt discount, in borrowings under our revolving credit facility, in each case incurred under our amended commercial banking credit facility (the “Amended Credit Facility”). It also included $19.1 million of indebtedness outstanding under a term secured equipment financing loan and $35.0 million of subordinated unsecured debt outstanding under an amended and restated subordinated promissory note (the “Amended and Restated Subordinated Note”) incurred in connection with the ARAM acquisition. As of December 31, 2009 and February 22, 2010, we had available $22 million (without giving effect to $1.2 million and $1.4 million, respectively, of outstanding letters of credit) of additional revolving credit borrowing capacity under our Amended Credit Facility. In January 2009, Standard and Poor’s Rating Services downgraded our outlook from “stable” to “negative” due to expectations of a weakening seismic market. Our substantial levels of indebtedness and our other financial obligations increase the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due, in respect of our outstanding indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic, competitive and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes on satisfactory terms, or at all; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Amended Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limit our planning flexibility for, or ability to react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing. During 2009, we had disclosed that under certain circumstances (including lower-than-expected revenues from sales), we would not remain in compliance with certain of the financial covenants contained in our Amended Credit Facility. If we are not able to satisfy the covenants under the Amended Credit Facility, we would need to seek to amend, or seek additional covenant waivers under the facility. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such waivers or amendments, in which case we would likely seek to obtain new secured debt, unsecured debt or equity financing. However, there also can be no assurance that such debt or equity financing would be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In October 2009, we entered into bridge financing arrangements with Bank of China, New York Branch in connection with our proposed transactions with BGP, and obtained waivers of the financial covenants in the Amended Credit Facility for the fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2009, December 31, 2009, March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010. Without these waivers, we would not have been in compliance with certain of our financial covenants at September 30, 2009 or December 31, 2009. However, our failure to comply with any of our other covenants under the Amended Credit Facility could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and debt service capabilities. We expect that upon the formation of the proposed land equipment joint venture with BGP and the closing and funding of the related transactions, we will repay our existing revolving credit loans and refinance our term loans under our Amended Credit Facility and repay the Amended and Restated Subordinated Note indebtedness. 19 However, if our proposed joint venture and related transactions with BGP were not to be completed, even for reasons beyond our control (such as us experiencing a material adverse event or condition that results in a material adverse effect on the our business, our prospects or results of operations), then the current waivers, upon notice from the lenders, would cease to be effective and we would at that time likely not be in compliance with certain of the financial covenants. This could then result in an event of default. As the current waivers cover a period of less than twelve months from December 31, 2009, we have classified the long-term indebtedness under our revolving line of credit and term loan facility under our Amended Credit Facility as current at December 31, 2009. As a result of the cross-default provisions contained in our secured equipment financing instruments and our Amended and Restated Subordinated Note, we have also classified these long-term obligations as current at December 31, 2009. Defaults under these credit obligations and any resulting acceleration of indebtedness under their instruments would have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to make any required payments under our credit instruments, or if we fail to comply with any of the financial and operating covenants included in those instruments, we will be in default under their terms. The lenders under such facilities could then accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and foreclose upon our and our subsidiaries’ assets that may secure such indebtedness. Other creditors might then accelerate other indebtedness under the cross-default provisions in those agreements. If our creditors accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our debt obligations. Even though we believe the joint venture with BGP will be completed as planned, there are certain events outside of our control that could cause the closing of the joint venture to be delayed, terminated or abandoned. In such event, we would need to seek to amend, or seek additional covenant waivers under, the Amended Credit Facility. Even though the lenders under the Amended Credit Facility have demonstrated their willingness to work with us in amending or providing sufficient waivers to our facility, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such waivers or amendments in the future. If we were unable to obtain such waivers or amendments from the lenders, we would likely seek to replace or pay off the Amended Credit Facility with new secured debt, unsecured debt or equity financing. There is no guarantee that we will complete our proposed joint venture with BGP, and, if we do complete the joint venture, we may be subject to additional risks relating to our ability to perform our obligations under the joint venture, including funding future joint venture capital requirements. In October 2009, we announced that we had entered into a Term Sheet with BGP dated as of October 23, 2009 (the “Term Sheet”) to form a land equipment joint venture. We also entered into bridge financing arrangements consisting of the following: • Two promissory notes (the “Convertible Notes”) issued to Bank of China under the Amended Credit Facility for an aggregate principal amount of $40.0 million, both convertible into shares of our common stock; and • A Warrant Issuance Agreement with BGP, under which we granted to BGP a warrant (the “Warrant”) to purchase shares of our common stock that may be exercised in lieu of conversion of the Convertible Notes. Completion of the joint venture transactions contemplated in the Term Sheet is conditioned upon, among other things, approvals by Chinese and U.S. authorities and the lack of adverse regulatory actions that would materially prohibit, restrict or delay the completion of the joint venture transactions or the anticipated operations of the joint venture. There can be no assurances that we will obtain necessary approvals or that we will complete the joint venture transactions as contemplated by the Term Sheet. Our inability to complete the joint venture transactions as contemplated may impact adversely our ability to execute our business strategy and, consequently, the marketability and market price of our common stock. In addition, if we are not successful in completing the joint venture transactions as presently contemplated, we will likely have to modify our plans to refinance our senior secured indebtedness under our Amended Credit Facility, which may entail additional time and costs, and may prove unsuccessful. In addition, the limited waivers of our financial covenants contained in our Amended Credit Facility may be terminated in such event, and we may at that time be in violation of the financial covenants and other covenants contained in our Amended Credit Facility and the terms of other indebtedness that contain cross-default provisions. If the transactions contemplated by the Term Sheet are not completed, it could have a number of adverse consequences for our business, including the following: • we may lose the anticipated benefits of our proposed joint venture with BGP, which would include the potential savings from economies of scope and scale for our land seismic business and potential benefits from combined technological and new product development offerings; 20 • we may lose our ability to successfully refinance and restructure our senior secured indebtedness on terms favorable to our company, as contemplated by the Term Sheet; • our business and operations may be harmed to the extent that customers, suppliers and other believe that our ability to successfully compete will be less effective without the joint venture or there is customer or employee uncertainty surrounding the future direction of our company; • our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected due to marketplace reaction, reduced sales levels and weakened financial condition caused by any of the factors mentioned above; and • the exercise price under the Warrant and the conversion prices under the Convertible Notes could be adjusted and reduced below their current amounts to considerably lower-than-current-market-price levels. Entering into joint ventures and alliances entails risks, including difficulties in developing and expanding the business of a newly formed joint venture, funding capital calls for the joint venture, exercising influence over the management and activities of joint venture, quality control concerns regarding joint venture products and services and potential conflicts of interest with the joint venture and our joint venture partner. The completion of the joint venture is subject to, among other things, the completion of definitive documents governing the terms of the joint venture, and we cannot guarantee that, if completed, the joint venture operations will be successful. Any inability to meet our obligations as a joint venture partner under the joint venture could result in penalties and reduced percentage interest in the joint venture for our company. Also, we could be disadvantaged in the event of disputes and controversies with our joint venture partner, since our joint venture partner is a relatively significant customer of our products and services and future product and services of the joint venture. To comply with our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash and will be required to satisfy certain debt financial covenants. Our ability to generate cash and satisfy debt covenants depends on many factors beyond our control. Our failure to complete the proposed joint venture and related transactions with BGP and refinance our existing bank indebtedness could result in an event of default under our credit facilities. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our working capital needs and planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the Amended Credit Facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We will need to repay or refinance our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of such indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, if for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we would be in default under the terms of our agreements governing our outstanding debt. If such a default were to occur, the lenders under the Amended Credit Facility could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Facility immediately due and payable, and the lenders would not be obligated to continue to advance funds to us. In addition, if such a default were to occur, our other indebtedness would become immediately due and payable under their cross-default provisions. The Amended Credit Facility and other outstanding debt instruments to which we are a party impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking other actions. Subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, the Amended Credit Facility contains customary restrictions on our activities, including covenants that restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from: • incurring additional indebtedness and issuing preferred stock; • creating liens on our assets; • making certain investments or restricted payments; • consolidating or merging with, or acquiring, another business; 21 • selling or otherwise disposing of our assets; • paying dividends and making other distributions with respect to capital stock, or repurchasing, redeeming or retiring capital stock or subordinated debt; and • entering into transactions with our affiliates. The loan agreements for our $19.1 million secured equipment financing with ICON ION, LLC contain a number of restrictive covenants that affect us, and our Amended and Restated Subordinated Note contains additional restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt. Any further debt financing we obtain is likely to have similarly restrictive covenants. The Amended Credit Facility also contains covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios and minimum thresholds. For example, the Amended Credit Facility requires that we and our domestic subsidiaries meet certain minimum fixed charge coverage ratio requirements, not exceed certain maximum leverage ratio limitations for each fiscal quarter, and maintain certain minimum tangible net worth. The lenders party to our Amended Credit Facility agreed in an amendment to the Credit Agreement dated October 23, 2009 to waive these financial covenants for the fiscal quarters ending September 30, 2009, December 31, 2009, March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010. Without these waivers, we would not have been in compliance with certain of our financial covenants at September 30, 2009 or December 31, 2009. If we were not able to satisfy all of these covenants, we would need to seek to amend, or seek one or more waivers of, the covenants under the Amended Credit Facility. If we cannot satisfy the covenants and are unable to obtain further waivers or amendments, the lenders could declare a default under the Amended Credit Facility. Any default under our Amended Credit Facility would allow the lenders under the facility the option to demand repayment of the indebtedness outstanding under the facility, and would allow certain other lenders to exercise their rights and remedies under cross-default provisions contained in their debt instruments. If these lenders were to exercise their rights to accelerate the indebtedness outstanding, there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance or otherwise repay any amounts that may become accelerated under the agreements. The acceleration of a significant portion of our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, and financial condition. The restrictions in the Amended Credit Facility and our other debt instruments may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We also may incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under the Amended Credit Facility and our other debt instruments. An event of default under our debt agreements would permit the holders of such indebtedness to declare all amounts borrowed to be due and payable. Even though we believe the joint venture with BGP will be completed as planned, there are certain events outside of our control (such as our experiencing a material adverse event or condition that results in a material adverse effect on our business, its prospects or results of operations) that could cause the closing of the joint venture to be delayed, terminated or abandoned. In such event, we would need to seek to amend, or seek additional covenant waivers under, the Amended Credit Facility. Even though the lenders under the Amended Credit Facility have demonstrated their willingness to work with us in amending or providing sufficient waivers to our facility, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such waivers or amendments in the future. If we were unable to obtain such waivers or amendments from the lenders, we would likely seek to replace or pay off the Amended Credit Facility with new secured debt, unsecured debt or equity financing. We are exposed to risks relating to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Following the end of our third quarter of 2009, we discovered an error in revenue recognition of certain product revenues in connection with the delivery of a FireFly land seismic data acquisition system and related hardware and components in China, which we had recorded in revenues for the second fiscal quarter of 2009. On November 4, 2009, we announced that we were restating our unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2009, as a result of this error in revenue recognition. We had concluded that, as of June 30, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective because this error in revenue recognition necessitating the restatement of our second quarter 2009 results of operations constituted a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This material weakness has been remediated as of December 31, 22 2009. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. For a description of this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified in November 2009 and our remediation efforts as of December 31, 2009, see Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures.” Although we have remediated the above material weakness, there can be no assurance that such controls will effectively prevent material misstatements in our consolidated financial statements in future periods. We may experience controls deficiencies or material weakness in the future, which could adversely impact the accuracy and timeliness of our future reporting and reports and filings we make with the SEC. If we, our option holders or others holding registration rights, sell additional shares of our common stock in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline. Additionally, our outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock, the Convertible Notes issued under our Amended Credit Facility and our Warrant issued to BGP in connection with our proposed joint venture with BGP are convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock. The conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock or the Convertible Notes or the exercise of the Warrant would result in dilution, and could result in substantial dilution, to existing stockholders. Sales in the open market of the shares of common stock acquired upon such conversion or exercise may have the effect of reducing the then-current market prices for our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market in the future, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 22, 2010, we had 118,695,952 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are available for public sale, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations or delivery of a prospectus. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding stock options to purchase up to 7,766,188 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $7.65 per share. We also had, as of that date, 16,494 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under outstanding restricted stock unit awards. Additionally, Fletcher International, Ltd., the holder of our Series D-1 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series D-2 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock and Series D-3 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (together, the “Series D Preferred Stock”) currently has the right to convert the preferred shares it holds into 9,669,434 shares of our common stock. Under our agreement with Fletcher, the holder of our Series D Preferred Stock has the ability to sell the shares of our common stock (under effective registration statements) acquired by it upon conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock. In September 2009, Fletcher delivered a notice to us purporting to increase the number of shares of our common stock into which its preferred shares may convert from 9,669,434 shares to 11,669,434 shares, to become effective in November 2009. Because we believe that our agreement with Fletcher does not provide Fletcher, as holder, the right to demand such additional increase, we have filed a declaratory judgment action in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware asking the court to resolve the issue. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” We currently have other pending litigation with Fletcher in Delaware regarding issues involving our Series D Preferred Stock. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” The 18,500,000 shares of common stock we issued in June 2009 to certain institutional investors may be resold into the public markets in transactions pursuant to a currently-effective registration statement that was declared effective by the SEC on June 16, 2009. Thus, these purchasing institutional investors currently have the right to dispose of their shares in the public markets. In October 2009, we issued the Convertible Notes and the Warrant in connection with our execution of the binding Term Sheet with BGP. These instruments provide that they will be initially convertible into, or exercisable for, in the aggregate, up to 14,285,714 shares of common stock. The exercise price under the Warrant and conversion prices under the Convertible Notes will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of a “Triggering Event.” A “Triggering Event” will occur in the event that the joint venture transactions cannot be completed by March 31, 2010, solely as a result of the occurrence of a statement, order or other indication from any relevant governmental regulatory agency that (a) the transactions would not be approved, would be opposed, objected to or sanctioned or (b) the transactions or BGP’s business and operations would be required to be altered (or upon the earlier abandonment of such transactions due to any such statement, indication or order). In such event, the exercise price and conversion price will be adjusted (but not to an amount that exceeds $2.80 per share) to a price per share that is equal to 75% of the lowest trading price of our common stock over a ten-consecutive-trading-day period, beginning on and inclusive of the first trading day following the public 23 announcement of any failure to complete such transactions (or the abandonment thereof), which failure or abandonment was the result of the Triggering Event. Such an adjustment would further dilute holders of our common stock. The conversion prices of the Series D Preferred Stock, the exercise price of the Warrant and conversion prices of the Convertible Notes are also subject to certain customary anti-dilution adjustment. Any conversion of the Convertible Notes or exercise of the Warrant will be conditioned upon certain governmental approvals from the Chinese government. At the closing of the transactions contemplated under the Term Sheet, it is expected that BGP (along with any permitted assignees and designees) will own 23,789,536 shares of common stock, whether through exercise of the Warrant, conversions of the Convertible Notes or by direct purchase of shares of common stock from us. Under a registration rights agreement that we entered into with BGP on October 23, 2009, we agreed to register certain resales of shares of commons stock acquired by BGP or its assignees or designees under the Convertible Notes or the Warrant. The conversion of our outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Likewise, the conversion of the Convertible Notes under our Amended Credit Facility and exercise of our Warrant issued to BGP in connection with our proposed joint venture with BGP will also dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion or exercise would likely apply downward pressure on prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the very existence of the outstanding shares of the Series D Preferred Stock, the Convertible Notes and the Warrant represents potential issuances of common stock upon their conversion or exercise, and could represent potential sales into the market of our common stock to be acquired on conversion or exercise, which could also depress trading prices for our common stock. Shares of our common stock are also subject to certain demand and piggyback registration rights held by Laitram, L.L.C. We also may enter into additional registration rights agreements in the future in connection with any subsequent acquisitions or securities transactions we may undertake. Any sales of our common stock under these registration rights arrangements with Laitram or other stockholders could be negatively perceived in the trading markets and negatively affect the price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market under these arrangements, or the expectation of such sales, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The current economic and credit environment and lower oil and natural gas prices could continue to have an adverse effect on customer demand for certain of our products and services, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition, our ability to borrow and our stock price. Global market and economic conditions continue to be weak. The global recession has caused weakened demand and lower prices for oil and natural gas on a worldwide basis, which have tended to reduce the levels of exploration for oil and natural gas. Historically, demand for our products and services has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by E&P companies and geophysical contractors. The demand for our products and services will continue to be reduced if the level of exploration expenditures continues to be low. During periods of reduced levels of exploration for oil and natural gas, there have been oversupplies of seismic data and downward pricing pressures on our seismic products and services, which in turn, have limited our ability to meet sales objectives and maintain profit margins for our products and services. In the past, these then-prevailing industry conditions have had the effect of reducing our revenues and operating margins. The markets for oil and gas historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. The turmoil in the credit markets and its potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings under either existing or new debt facilities in the public or private markets and on terms we believe to be reasonable. Continued weakness in the financial markets could also have a material adverse effect on our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness incurred in connection with the ARAM acquisition and to otherwise fund our operational requirements. Given the tight credit markets, there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to borrow money on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our products and impair their ability to pay us for our products and services on a timely basis, or at all. Our sales are affected by interest rate fluctuations and the availability of liquidity, and we would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or liquidity constraints. Rising interest rates may also make certain alternative products and services provided by our competitors more attractive to customers, which could lead to a decline in demand for our products and services. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 24 It is difficult to predict how long the current economic conditions will persist, whether they will deteriorate further, and which of our products and services will be adversely affected. We may have further impairment losses if events or changes in circumstances occur which reduce the fair value of an asset below its carrying amount. As a result, these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and we may be subject to increased disputes and litigation because of these events and issues. Stock markets, in general, have experienced over the past 18 months, and may continue to experience, significant price and volume volatility, and the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. This increased volatility, coupled with depressed economic conditions, could continue to have a depressing effect on the market price of our common stock. If capital expenditures for E&P companies remain at reduced levels compared to recent periods, the demand for our products and services may remain weak and our results of operations will be adversely affected. Demand for our products and services depends upon the level of spending by E&P companies and seismic contractors for exploration and development activities, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices. Spending on products and services such as those we provide our customers are of a highly discretionary nature and subject to rapid and material change. Any significant decline in oil and gas related spending on behalf of our customers could cause alterations in our capital spending plans, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions or delays in payment, or non-payment of amounts that are owed to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to continue to satisfy all of the covenants in our loan agreements. Additionally, increases in oil and gas prices may not increase demand for our services or otherwise have a positive effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Oil and gas companies’ willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control, such as: • the supply of and demand for oil and gas; • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels for oil; • the expected rates of declining current production; • the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves; • weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area, as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic data acquisition; • domestic and worldwide economic conditions; • political instability in oil and gas producing countries; • technical advances affecting energy consumption; • government policies regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and gas reserves; • the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; and • merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas companies and seismic contractors. Many of our products contain more advanced technologies than products our competition offer, and these products may tend to be, for that reason, more expensive than comparable products of our competitors. 25 The level of oil and gas exploration and production activity has been volatile in recent years. Previously forecasted trends in oil and gas exploration and development activities may not continue and demand for our products and services may not reflect the level of activity in the industry. Any prolonged substantial reduction in oil and gas prices would likely affect oil and gas production levels and therefore adversely affect demand for the products and services we provide. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks. Sales to customers outside of North America accounted for approximately 64% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, and we believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. U.S. export restrictions affect the types and specifications of products we can export. Additionally, to complete certain sales, U.S. laws may require us to obtain export licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in obtaining these licenses. Like many energy service companies, we have operations in and sales into certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and the Commonwealth of Independent States, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may deem to sponsor terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. Our sales or operations may become restricted or prohibited in any country in which the foregoing risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations: • disruption of oil and natural gas E&P activities; • restriction of the movement and exchange of funds; • inhibition of our ability to collect receivables; • enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions; • limitation of our access to markets for periods of time; • expropriation and nationalization of our assets; • political and economic instability, which may include armed conflict and civil disturbance; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; and • governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights. Our international operations and sales increase our exposure to other countries’ restrictive tariff regulations, other import/export restrictions and customer credit risk. In addition, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Each borrowing under our Amended Credit Facility will bear interest, at our option, at either an alternate base rate or a LIBOR-based rate. As of December 31, 2009, the $101.6 million in term loan indebtedness and the $118.0 million, excluding a non-cash debt discount, in total revolving credit indebtedness under the Amended Credit Facility accrued interest using the LIBOR-based interest rate of 6.7% per annum. The average effective interest rate for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 under the LIBOR-based rates was 6.2% per annum. 26 Assuming that $219.6 million in revolving and term loans are outstanding, each 100 basis point increase in the interest rate would have the effect of increasing the annual amount of interest to be paid by approximately $2.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average interest rate on our outstanding indebtedness of $277.4 million was 12.9% per annum. Our obligations to pay interest at relatively higher rates: • require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow for interest payments on our indebtedness and our other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. Alternative funding could result in higher interest rates. However, there can be no assurance that alternative financial resources will be available promptly, on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain necessary funding could adversely affect our short-term liquidity and our ability to invest in research and development to fund new product and service initiatives, upgrade our process technology and manufacturing capabilities, and seek out potential acquisition candidates and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period, and we are subject to seasonality factors. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations from period to period as a result of new product or service introductions, the timing of significant expenses in connection with customer orders, unrealized sales, levels of research and development activities in different periods, the product mix sold, and the seasonality of our business. Because many of our products feature a high sales price and are technologically complex, we generally have experienced long sales cycles for these products and historically incur significant expense at the beginning of these cycles for component parts and other inventory necessary to manufacture a product in anticipation of a future sale, which may not ultimately occur. In addition, the revenues from our sales can vary widely from period to period due to changes in customer requirements. These factors can create fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations from period to period. Variability in our overall gross margins for any period, which depend on the percentages of higher-margin and lower-margin products and services sold in that period, compounds these uncertainties. As a result, if net revenues or gross margins fall below expectations, our results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. Additionally, our business can be seasonal in nature, with strongest demand typically in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. The fourth quarter of 2009 was not as strong as seen historically because the typical discretionary spending that normally occurs during the fourth quarter was not realized. Due to the relatively high sales price of many of our products and seismic data libraries and relatively low unit sales volume, our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period due to the timing of orders and shipments and the mix of products and services sold. This uneven pattern makes financial predictions for any given period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places challenges on our inventory management. Delays caused by factors beyond our control, such as the granting of permits for seismic surveys by third parties and the availability and equipping of marine vessels, can affect our ION Solutions division’s revenues from its processing and ISS services from period to period. Also, delays in ordering products or in shipping or delivering products in a given period could significantly affect our results of operations for that period. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause greater volatility in the market price of our common stock. The technologies and businesses contributed by our company and BGP to the proposed joint venture may prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and divert management attention. The proposed formation of a joint venture with BGP is consistent with our overall business strategy of seeking new technologies, products and businesses to broaden the scope of our existing and planned product lines and technologies. The BGP joint venture involves the integration of multiple product lines and business models that previously have operated independently. This will be a complex and time consuming process. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefit of the proposed joint venture. This joint venture (if completed) and future joint ventures or acquisitions that we complete may result in unexpected costs, expenses, and liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The BGP joint venture and future transactions may expose us to: 27 • increased costs associated with the transaction and operation of the new business and new technologies and the management of geographically dispersed operations; • risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies (including incorporating BGP’s land seismic equipment with our existing land seismic imaging product lines being contributed to the joint venture), operations, sites, and personnel; • difficulties in retaining and integrating key technical, sales and marketing personnel and the possible loss of such employees and costs associated with their loss; • difficulties associated with preserving relationships with our customers, partners and vendors; • risks that any technology developed by the joint venture may not perform as well as we had anticipated; • the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from other business operations and related concerns; • the potential inability to replicate operating efficiencies in the joint venture’s operations; • potential impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; • the inability to generate revenues to offset associated transaction costs; • the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures; and • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of management personnel from different companies. Integration of the contributed businesses requires significant efforts from us and BGP, including coordinating existing business plans and research and development efforts. We may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from the joint venture. The process of combining BGP’s business with our business could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the operations and activities of the joint venture’s business, as well as the possible loss of key personnel, and could distract our management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of our Company’s remaining businesses. Intangible assets and goodwill that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions are subject to impairment evaluations and, as a result, we could be required to write-off additional goodwill and intangible assets, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (ASC) Topic 350, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (ASC 350), we are required to compare the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets (when certain impairment indicators under ASC 350 are present) to their carrying amount. If the fair value of such goodwill or intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of these assets within the reporting units is less than their carrying value. In the first quarter of 2009, we determined that approximately $38.0 million of intangible assets related to ARAM (included in our Land Imaging Systems reporting unit) had been impaired. We recorded the expense as of March 31, 2009 and reduced the carrying amount of our intangible assets. Any further reduction in or impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the goodwill balance was $52.0 million and $49.8 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the intangible asset balance was $61.8 million and $107.4 million, respectively. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. Through our subsidiaries, we operate in a wide variety of jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, Canada, the Netherlands, China, Venezuela, India, Russia, the United Arab Emirates and other countries. Certain of these countries have experienced economic problems and uncertainties from time to time. To the extent that world events or economic conditions 28 negatively affect our future sales to customers in these and other regions of the world, or the collectibility of receivables, our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected. We currently require customers in certain higher risk countries to provide their own financing. In some cases, we have assisted our customers in organizing international financing and export-import credit guarantees provided by the United States government. We do not currently extend long-term credit through notes to companies in countries we consider to be too risky from a credit risk perspective. A majority of our foreign net working capital is within the United Kingdom and Canada. The subsidiaries in those countries receive their income and pay their expenses primarily in pounds sterling (GBP) and Canadian dollars (CAD), respectively. To the extent that transactions of these subsidiaries are settled in GBP or CAD, a devaluation of these currencies versus the U.S. dollar could reduce the contribution from these subsidiaries to our consolidated results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. For financial reporting purposes, such depreciation will negatively affect our reported results of operations since GBP- and CAD-denominated earnings that are converted to U.S. dollars are stated at a decreased value. In addition, since we participate in competitive bids for sales of certain of our products and services that are denominated in U.S. dollars, a depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the GBP and CAD harms our competitive position against companies whose financial strength bears less correlation to the strength of the U.S. dollar. While we have employed economic cash flow and fair value hedges designed to minimize the risks associated with these exchange rate fluctuations, the hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in the values of the currencies of countries in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. We are exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical products. Our customers often require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies, and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems are always reliable in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that can, and have from time to time, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty, and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our systems’ advanced and complex nature, we expect to experience occasional operational issues from time to time. Generally, until our products have been tested in the field under a wide variety of operational conditions, we cannot be certain that performance and service problems will not arise. In that case, market acceptance of our new products could be delayed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We rely on highly skilled personnel in our businesses, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our businesses. Competition for qualified personnel required for our data processing operations and our other segments’ businesses has intensified in recent years. Our growth has presented challenges to us to recruit, train, and retain our employees while managing the impact of potential wage inflation and the lack of available qualified labor in some markets where we operate. A well-trained, motivated and adequately-staffed work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. If we do not effectively manage our transitions into new products and services, our revenues may suffer. Products and services for the seismic industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new products and services, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of inventory and raw materials associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing 29 inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new products and services by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline. Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of a successful introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new products and services in accordance with our revenue, margin, and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services, and our future results of operations, may suffer. Technological change in the seismic industry requires us to make substantial research and development expenditures. The markets for our products and services are characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. We must invest substantial capital to develop and maintain a leading edge in technology, with no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on those investments. If we are unable to develop and produce successfully and timely new and enhanced products and services, we will be unable to compete in the future and our business, our results of operations and our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We invest significant sums of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our ION Solutions’ multi-client data library. We invest significant amounts in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our ION Solutions’ multi-client data library. A majority of these investments is funded by our customers, while the remainder is recovered through future data licensing fees. In 2009, we invested $89.6 million in our multi-client data library. Our customers generally commit to licensing the data prior to our initiating a new data library acquisition program. However, the aggregate amounts of future licensing fees for this data are sometimes uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including the market prices of oil and gas, customer demand for seismic data in the library, and the availability of similar data from competitors. For example, the rapid decline of oil and natural gas prices in late 2008 have and could continue to cause E&P companies to significantly delay or reduce their current seismic capital spending budgets. Therefore, we may not be able to recover all of the costs of or earn any return on these investments. In periods in which sales do not meet original expectations, we may be required to record additional amortization and/or impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of our data library, which charges may be material to our results of operations in any period. The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have traditionally relied on a relatively small number of significant customers. Consequently, our business is exposed to the risks related to customer concentration. No single customer represented 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007; however, our top five customers in total represented approximately 29%, 30% and 31%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues during those years. The loss of any of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, a relatively small number of customers has accounted for the majority of our net revenues in any period. During the last ten years, our traditional seismic contractor customers have been rapidly consolidating, thereby consolidating the demand for our products. The loss of any of our significant customers to further consolidation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our ION Solutions and Data Management Solutions segments increase our exposure to the risks experienced by more technology-intensive companies. The businesses of ION Solutions and Data Management Solutions, being more concentrated in software, processing services, and proprietary technologies than our traditional business, have exposed us to the risks typically encountered by smaller technology companies that are more dependent on proprietary technology protection. These risks include: • future competition from more established companies entering the market; • product obsolescence; 30 • dependence upon continued growth of the market for seismic data processing; • the rate of change in the markets for these segments’ technology and services; • research and development efforts not proving sufficient to keep up with changing market demands; • dependence on third-party software for inclusion in these segments’ products and services; • misappropriation of these segments’ technology by other companies; • alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights that could result in substantial additional costs; • difficulties inherent in forecasting sales for newly developed technologies or advancements in technologies; • recruiting, training, and retaining technically skilled personnel that could increase the costs for these segments, or limit their growth; and • the ability to maintain traditional margins for certain of their technology or services. The contribution of our land equipment businesses to the joint venture exposes our company to additional risks. Please refer to the additional risks below. Reservoir Exploration Technology (RXT) has been a significant customer of our Marine Imaging Systems segment. A loss of business from this customer could adversely affect our sales and financial condition if RXT is not replaced by another customer or customers. In May 2007, we entered into a multi-year agreement with RXT under which they agreed to purchase a minimum of $160 million in VectorSeis Ocean (VSO) systems and related equipment through 2011. In addition, this agreement entitles us to receive a royalty of 2.1% of revenues generated by RXT through the use of all VSO equipment commencing in January 2008 until the expiration of the agreement. In turn, RXT was granted exclusive rights to this product line through 2011. Because they did not purchase the minimum annual quantity of equipment, in February 2010, we notified RXT that they no longer have exclusive rights to the VSO product line. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, $9.3 million, or 2.2%, and $49.0 million, or 7.2%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues, were attributable to marine equipment sales to and royalty revenues from RXT. The loss of RXT as a customer or a continued significant reduction in their equipment or systems needs could reduce our sales volumes and revenues and lessen our cash flows, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unless we can broaden our customer base for these marine products, we can give no assurances that the revenues and cash flows from RXT, if lost, can be replaced. To the extent that the risks faced by RXT cause it to curtail its business activities or to make timely payments to its suppliers, we are subject to the same risks. We are subject to intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels. Many of our sales are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for our industry. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, technological expertise, and a reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of our segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of our segments. New entrants in many of the markets in which certain of our products and services are currently strong should be expected. See Item 1. “Business – Competition.” We compete with companies that are larger than we are in terms of revenues, number of processing locations and sales and marketing resources. A few of our competitors have a competitive advantage in being part of an affiliated seismic contractor company. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates. Some of our competitors conduct seismic data acquisition operations as part of their regular business, which we do not, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, any excess supply of products and services in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices for our products and services. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 31 Certain of our facilities could be damaged by hurricanes and other natural disasters, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005, were impacted by hurricanes or weather events. Our Marine Imaging Systems segment leases 93,000-square feet of facilities located in Harahan, Louisiana, in the greater New Orleans metropolitan area. In late August 2005, we suspended operations at this facility and evacuated and locked down the facility in preparation for Hurricane Katrina. This facility did not experience flooding or significant damage during or after the hurricane. However, because of employee evacuations, power failures and lack of related support services, utilities and infrastructure in the New Orleans area, we were unable to resume full operations at the facility until late September 2005. In September 2008, we lost power and related services for several days at our offices located in the Houston metropolitan area and in Harahan, Louisiana as a result of Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced production and product sales; costs associated with resuming production; reduced orders for our products from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. We have outsourcing arrangements with third parties to manufacture some of our products. If these third party suppliers fail to deliver quality products or components at reasonable prices on a timely basis, we may alienate some of our customers and our revenues, profitability, and cash flow may decline. Additionally, the current global economic crisis could have a negative impact on our suppliers, causing a disruption in our vendor supplies. A disruption in vendor supplies may adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing processes require a high volume of quality components. We have increased our use of contract manufacturers as an alternative to our own manufacturing of products. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our vibrator vehicles, our towed marine streamers, our redeployable ocean bottom cables, our Applied MEMS components, various components of VectorSeis Ocean, and certain electronic and ground components of our land acquisition systems. Certain components used by us are currently provided by only one supplier. If, in implementing any outsource initiative, we are unable to identify contract manufacturers willing to contract with us on competitive terms and to devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations, and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement, or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key components, increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. If any of these risks are realized, our revenues, profitability, and cash flows may decline. In addition, as we come to rely more heavily on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel resources with expertise to manage problems that may arise from these third-party arrangements. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies to us or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Our outsourcing relationships may require us to purchase inventory when demand for products produced by third-party manufacturers is low. Under some of our outsourcing arrangements, our manufacturing outsourcers purchase agreed-upon inventory levels to meet our forecasted demand. Our manufacturing plans and inventory levels are generally based on sales forecasts. If demand proves to be less than we originally forecasted and we cancel our committed purchase orders, our outsourcers generally will have the right to require us to purchase inventory which they had purchased on our behalf. Should we be required to purchase inventory under these terms, we may be required to hold inventory that we may never utilize. We currently have no purchase commitments with Colibrys for additional MEMS. 32 We may be unable to obtain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products and we may become involved in intellectual property disputes. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies. We believe that the technological and creative skill of our employees, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are the foundations of our competitive advantage. Although we have a considerable portfolio of patents, copyrights, and trademarks, these property rights offer us only limited protection. Our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which such use occurs. Our difficulties are compounded in certain foreign countries where the laws do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States. Third parties inquire and claim from time to time that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Much of our litigation in recent years have involved disputes over our and others’ rights to technology. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility. Our operations are subject to laws, regulations, government policies, and product certification requirements worldwide. Changes in such laws, regulations, policies or requirements could affect the demand for our products or result in the need to modify products, which may involve substantial costs or delays in sales and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Our export activities are also subject to extensive and evolving trade regulations. Certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes imposed by the United States government. These restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes also prohibit or limit us from participating in certain business activities in those countries. Our operations are subject to numerous local, state, and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties, and the protection of the environment. These laws have been changed frequently in the past, and there can be no assurance that future changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our customers’ operations are also significantly impacted by laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and endangered species. Consequently, changes in governmental regulations applicable to our customers may reduce demand for our products. For instance, regulations regarding the protection of marine mammals in the Gulf of Mexico may reduce demand for our air guns and other marine products. To the extent that our customers’ operations are disrupted by future laws and regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, our stockholders rights plan, the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock and contractual requirements under our agreement with Fletcher contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, our stockholders rights plan, the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock and our agreement with Fletcher may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; • providing for a dividend on our common stock, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” which can be triggered after a person or group acquires, obtains the right to acquire or commences a tender or exchange offer to acquire, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; 33 • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • requiring an acquiring party to assume all of our obligations under our agreement with Fletcher and the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock set forth in our certificates of rights and designations for those series, including the dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and share registration provisions. In addition, the proposed terms of our joint venture with BGP and BGP’s investment in our company contain a number of provisions, such as certain pre-emptive rights granted to BGP, that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of our company that our stockholders may otherwise consider to be favorable. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Note: The foregoing factors pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should not be construed as exhaustive. In addition to the foregoing, we wish to refer readers to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report as well as other filings and reports with the SEC for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 