Item 1A. Risk FactorsThis report contains or incorporates by reference statements concerning our future results and performance and other matters that are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our or our industry’s results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this report include statements regarding:•the expected outcome of the WesternGeco litigation and future potential adverse effects on our liquidity in the event that we must collateralize our appeal bond for the full amount of the bond or are unsuccessful in our appeal of the judgment;•future oil and gas commodity prices;•future levels of capital expenditures of our customers for seismic activities;•the effects of current and future worldwide economic conditions (particularly in developing countries) and demand for oil and natural gas and seismic equipment and services;•the effects of current and future unrest in the Middle East, North Africa and other regions, including Ukraine;•the timing of anticipated revenues and the recognition of those revenues for financial accounting purposes;•the effects of ongoing and future industry consolidation, including, in particular, the effects of consolidation and vertical integration in the towed marine seismic streamers market;13Table of Contents •the timing of future revenue realization of anticipated orders for multi-client survey projects and data processing work in our Solutions segment;•future levels of our capital expenditures;•future government regulations, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico;•expected net revenues, income from operations and net income;•expected gross margins for our services and products;•future benefits to be derived from our INOVA Geophysical joint venture;•future benefits to be derived from our OceanGeo subsidiary;•future seismic industry fundamentals, including future demand for seismic services and equipment;•future benefits to our customers to be derived from new services and products;•future benefits to be derived from our investments in technologies, joint ventures and acquired companies;•future growth rates for our services and products;•the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new services and products;•expectations regarding E&P companies and seismic contractor end-users purchasing our more technologically-advanced services and products;•anticipated timing and success of commercialization and capabilities of services and products under development and start-up costs associated with their development;•future cash needs and future availability of cash to fund our operations and pay our obligations;•potential future acquisitions;•future opportunities for new products and projected research and development expenses;•expected continued compliance with our debt financial covenants;•expectations regarding realization of deferred tax assets; and•anticipated results with respect to certain estimates we make for financial accounting purposes.These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by risks and uncertainties known or unknown to us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements. Actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations and assumptions. While we cannot identify all of the factors that may cause actual results to vary from our expectations, we believe the following factors should be considered carefully:An unfavorable outcome in our pending litigation matter with WesternGeco could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results and liquidity.In August 2012, a jury in the WesternGeco L.L.C. v. ION Geophysical Corporation litigation returned a verdict of approximately $105.9 million in damages against us (for additional information, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below). In June 2013, the presiding judge entered a Memorandum and Order denying our post-verdict motions that challenged the jury's infringement findings and the damages amount. In the Memorandum and Order, the judge also stated that WesternGeco is entitled to be awarded supplemental damages for the additional DigiFIN units that were supplied from the United States before and after trial that were not included in the jury verdict due to the timing of the trial. In October 2013, the judge entered another Memorandum and Order, ruling on the number of DigiFIN units that are subject to supplemental damages and also ruling that the supplemental damages applicable to the additional units should be calculated by adding together the jury’s previous reasonable royalty and lost profits damages awards per unit, resulting in supplemental damages of $73.1 million. In April 2014, the judge entered another Order, ruling that lost profits should not have been included in the calculation of supplemental damages in the October 2013 Memorandum and Order and reducing the supplemental damages award in the case from $73.1 million to $9.4 million. In the Order, the judge also further reduced the damages award in the case by $3.0 million to reflect a settlement and license that WesternGeco entered into with a customer of ours that had purchased and used DigiFIN units that were also included in the damage amounts awarded against us.In May 2014, the judge signed and entered a Final Judgment in the amount of $123.8 million. Also, the Final Judgment included an injunction that enjoins us, our agents and anyone acting in concert with us, from supplying in or from the United States the DigiFIN product or any parts unique to the DigiFIN product, or any instrumentality no more than colorably different 14Table of Contents from any of these products or parts, for combination outside of the United States. We have conducted our business in compliance with the Court’s orders in the case, and we have reorganized our operations such that we no longer supply the DigiFIN product or any parts unique to the DigiFIN product in or from the United States.As previously disclosed, we have taken a loss contingency accrual of $123.8 million related to this case. Post-judgment interest will continue to accrue until this legal matter is fully resolved. We and WesternGeco have each appealed the Final Judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. We filed our appeal brief on September 4, 2014. WesternGeco’s appeal brief was filed on October 21, 2014. Oral arguments have been scheduled for March 5, 2015. If the adverse ruling is affirmed, we intend to pursue all available opportunities to make further appeals.In order to stay the judgment during the appeal, we arranged with sureties to post an appeal bond with the trial court on our behalf in the amount of $120.0 million. The terms of the appeal bond arrangements provide the sureties the contractual right for as long as the bond is outstanding to require us to post cash collateral for up to the full amount of the bond. If the sureties exercise their right to require collateral while the appeal bond is outstanding, we would intend to utilize a combination of cash on hand and undrawn balances available under our New Credit Facility (as defined below). If we are required to collateralize the full amount of the bond, we might also seek additional debt and/or equity financing. The collateralization of the full amount of the bond could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Any requirement that we collateralize the appeal bond will reduce our liquidity and may reduce the borrowings otherwise available under our New Credit Facility. No assurances can be made whether our efforts to raise additional cash would be successful and, if so, on what terms and conditions, and at what cost we might be able to secure any such financing. For additional discussion about our liquidity related to posting an appeal bond, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Meeting our Liquidity Requirements — Loss Contingency – WesternGeco Lawsuit” in Part II of this Form 10-K.If our efforts on appeal to reverse or reduce the verdict substantially are unsuccessful, it would likely have the effect of reducing our capital resources available to fund our operations and take advantage of certain business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may not ultimately prevail in the appeals process and we could be required to pay damages up to the amount of the loss contingency accrual plus any additional amount ordered by the court. Our assessment of our potential loss contingency may change in the future due to developments at the appellate court and other events, such as changes in applicable law, and such reassessment could lead to the determination that no loss contingency is probable or that a greater loss contingency is probable, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Amounts of estimated loss contingency accruals as disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere are based on currently available information and involve elements of judgment and significant uncertainties. Actual losses may exceed or be considerably less than these accrual amounts.Our business depends on the level of exploration and production activities by the oil and natural gas industry. If crude oil and natural gas prices or the level of capital expenditures by E&P companies were to further decline, demand for our services and products would decline and our results of operations would be materially adversely affected.Demand for our services and products depends upon the level of spending by E&P companies and seismic contractors for exploration and production activities, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices. Spending by our customers on services and products that we provide is highly discretionary in nature, and subject to rapid and material change. Any further significant decline in oil and gas related spending on behalf of our customers could cause alterations in our capital spending plans, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions or delays in payment, or non-payment of amounts that are owed to us, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to continue to satisfy all of the covenants in our debt agreements. Additionally, increases in oil and gas prices may not increase demand for our services and products or otherwise have a positive effect on our financial condition or results of operations. E&P companies’ willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control, such as:•the supply of and demand for oil and gas;•the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and gas;•the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas;•the expected rates of decline for current production;•the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves;•weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area, as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic data acquisition;15Table of Contents •domestic and worldwide economic conditions;•political instability in oil and gas producing countries;•technical advances affecting energy consumption;•government policies regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and gas reserves;•the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; and•merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas companies and seismic contractors.In recent months, crude oil prices have dropped by approximately 45%–50% as the non-U.S. economic outlook continues to weaken, North American production continues to expand, and more recently, Saudi Arabia has publicly stated its intention to support its global market share at the expense of lower prices.The weakening economic outlook for non-U.S. oil demand, especially in Europe, has put more downward pressure on prices. Thus, the bottom-end of the price range for crude oil has decreased significantly beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to 2013. In 2013, we started seeing decreased spending on exploration by E&P companies. As a result of recent decreases in crude oil prices, many E&P companies have announced that they are reducing their capital expenditures, which has resulted in diminished demand for our services and products and has caused downward pressure on the prices we charge or the level of work we do for our customers.The level of oil and gas exploration and production activity has been volatile in recent years. Previously forecasted upward trends in oil and gas exploration and development activities have not continued and, in fact as discussed above, have declined, together with demand for our services and products. Any prolonged substantial reduction in oil and gas prices would likely further affect oil and gas production levels and therefore adversely affect demand for the services we provide and products we sell.Our operating results often fluctuate from period to period, and we are subject to cyclicality and seasonality factors.Our industry and the oil and gas industry in general are subject to cyclical fluctuations. Demand for our services and products depends upon spending levels by E&P companies for exploration, production, development and field management of oil and natural gas reserves and, in the case of new seismic data creation, the willingness of those companies to forgo ownership in the seismic data. Capital expenditures by E&P companies for these activities depend upon several factors, including actual and forecasted prices of oil and natural gas and those companies’ short-term and strategic plans. After a period of exploration-focused activities by E&P companies in recent years, recent studies have indicated that many E&P companies in 2015 will focus more on production activities and less on exploration of prospects. The major national and independent oil companies may have determined to pause in their efforts to acquire exploration seismic data and focus more on the exploitation of their discoveries. The smaller independents may, in turn, focus on asset sales during 2015. As of December 31, 2014, our Solutions segment backlog, consisting of commitments for data processing work and for underwritten multi-client new venture and proprietary projects by our GeoVentures group, was 45% less than our backlog existing as of December 31, 2013. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations from period to period as a result of new service or product introductions, the timing of significant expenses in connection with customer orders, unrealized sales, levels of research and development activities in different periods, the product and service mix of our revenues and the seasonality of our business. Because some of our products feature a high sales price and are technologically complex, we generally experience long sales cycles for these types of products and historically incur significant expense at the beginning of these cycles for component parts and other inventory necessary to manufacture a product in anticipation of a future sale, which may not ultimately occur. In addition, the revenues can vary widely from period to period due to changes in customer requirements and demand. These factors can create fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations from period to period. Variability in our overall gross margins for any period, which depend on the percentages of higher-margin and lower-margin services and products sold in that period, compounds these uncertainties. As a result, if net revenues or gross margins fall below expectations, our results of operations and financial condition will likely be materially adversely affected. Additionally, our business can be seasonal in nature, with strongest demand typically in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Customer budgeting cycles at times result in higher spending activity levels by our customers at different points of the year.16Table of Contents Due to the relatively high sales price of many of our products and seismic data libraries, our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period due to the timing of orders and shipments and the mix of services and products sold. This uneven pattern makes financial predictions for any given period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places challenges on our inventory management. Delays caused by factors beyond our control, such as the granting of permits for seismic surveys by third parties, the effect from disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico and the availability and equipping of marine vessels, can affect our Solutions segment’s revenues from its processing and GeoVentures services from period to period. Also, delays in ordering products or in shipping or delivering products in a given period could significantly affect our results of operations for that period. While we experienced an all-time record for data library sales in the fourth quarter of 2013, sales in 2014 have been negatively impacted by a softening of exploration spending by our E&P customers. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause greater volatility in the market price of our common stock.We are subject to intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels.Many of our sales are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for our industry. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, technological expertise, and a reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of our segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of our segments. New entrants in many of the markets in which certain of our services and products are currently strong should be expected. See Item 1. “Business – Competition.” We compete with companies that are larger than we are in terms of revenues, technical personnel, number of processing locations and sales and marketing resources. A few of our competitors have a competitive advantage in being part of a large affiliated seismic contractor company. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates. Some of our competitors conduct seismic data acquisition operations as part of their regular business, which we have traditionally not conducted, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, any excess supply of services and products in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices for our services and products. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In particular, the consolidation in recent years of many of our competitors in the seismic services and products markets has negatively impacted our results of operations.There are a number of geophysical companies that create, market and license seismic data and maintain seismic libraries. Competition for acquisition of new seismic data among geophysical service providers historically has been intense and we expect this competition will continue to be intense. Larger and better-financed operators could enjoy an advantage over us in a competitive environment for new data.Our new OceanGeo subsidiary involves numerous risks.Our new OceanGeo subsidiary is focused on operating as a seismic acquisition contractor concentrating on marine seabed OBS data acquisition. There can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefits from this new company. OceanGeo (and any future acquisitions that we may undertake) may result in unexpected costs, expenses and liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. OceanGeo may encounter difficulties in developing and expanding its business. We may experience difficulties in funding future capital contributions to OceanGeo.OceanGeo’s business exposes us to the operating risks of being a seismic contractor with seismic crews:•Seismic data acquisition activities in marine ocean bottom areas are subject to the risk of downtime or reduced productivity, as well as to the risks of loss to property and injury to personnel, mechanical failures and natural disasters. In addition to losses caused by human errors and accidents, we may also become subject to losses resulting from, among other things, political instability, business interruption, strikes and weather events; and•OceanGeo’s equipment and services may expose us to litigation and legal proceedings, including those related to product liability, personal injury and contract liability. We will have in place insurance coverage against operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims, damage, destruction or business interruption related to OceanGeo’s equipment and services, and whenever possible, OceanGeo will obtain agreements from customers that limit our liability. We also carry war, strikes, terrorism and related perils coverage for OceanGeo. However, we cannot assure you that the nature and amount of insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify OceanGeo and us against liabilities arising from pending and future claims or that its insurance coverage will be adequate in all circumstances or against all hazards, and that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at commercially reasonable rates or on acceptable terms.17Table of Contents OceanGeo is also subject to, and exposes OceanGeo and us to, various additional risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These risks include the following:•increased costs associated with the operation of the business and the management of geographically dispersed operations;•OceanGeo’s cash flows may be inadequate to fund its capital requirements, thereby requiring additional contributions to OceanGeo by us;•risks associated with our new Calypso ocean bottom product that is intended to be utilized by OceanGeo in its operations, including risks that the new technology may not perform as well as we anticipate;•difficulties in retaining and integrating key technical, sales and marketing personnel and the possible loss of such employees and costs associated with their loss;•the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from other business operations and related concerns;•the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures;•we may not be able to realize operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from OceanGeo’s operations; and•OceanGeo may experience difficulties and delays in securing new business and customer projects.Our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP involves numerous risks.Our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP is focused on designing, engineering, manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing and field support of land-based equipment used in seismic data acquisition for the oil and gas industry. Excluded from the scope of the joint venture’s business are the analog sensor businesses of our respective companies, and the businesses of certain companies in which BGP or we are currently a minority owner. The INOVA Geophysical joint venture involves the integration of multiple product lines and business models contributed by us and BGP that previously operated independently. This has proved to be a complex and time-consuming process.Effective December 31, 2014, we have written our investment in INOVA Geophysical down to zero. In light of the write-down, we do not anticipate additional adverse financial impacts from the investment in INOVA Geophysical on our financial condition or results of operation. While we have written down our investment in INOVA Geophysical, we remain an owner of 49% of the equity in INOVA Geophysical. As an owner, we could be subject to capital calls in the future which, if not funded, could cause a dilution of our percentage interest in INOVA. We currently do not intend to participate in any future capital calls or provide future funding to INOVA. We may also experience difficulties exercising influence over the management and activities of the joint venture, quality control over joint venture products and services and potential conflicts of interest with the joint venture and with BGP, our joint venture partner. Also, we could be disadvantaged in the event of disputes and controversies with our joint venture partner, since our joint venture partner is a relatively significant customer of our services and products and future services and products of the joint venture as well as a holder of approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock.The joint venture is also subject to, and exposes us to various risks including the following:•increased costs associated with the integration and operation of the new business and the management of geographically dispersed operations;•risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies, operations, sites and personnel;•difficulties in retaining and integrating key technical, sales and marketing personnel and the possible loss of such employees and costs associated with their loss;•difficulties associated with preserving relationships with our customers, partners and vendors;•risks that any technology developed by the joint venture may not perform as well as we had anticipated;•the strength of future seismic contractor demand for land seismic equipment and the highly competitive nature of the land seismic equipment manufacturing industry;•the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from other business operations and related concerns;•the potential inability to replicate operating efficiencies in the joint venture’s operations;•the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures;•the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of management personnel from different companies;18Table of Contents •the divergence of our interests from BGP’s interests in the future, disagreements with BGP on ongoing manufacturing, research and development and operational activities, or the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the joint venture;•the terms of our joint venture arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable to us;•because we currently own only 49% of the total equity interests in INOVA Geophysical, there are certain decisions affecting the business of the joint venture that we cannot control or influence;•we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from the joint venture;•joint venture profits and cash flows may prove inadequate to fund cash dividends or other distributions from the joint venture to the joint venture partners; and•the joint venture may experience difficulties and delays in production of the joint venture’s products.In addition, the terms of the joint venture’s governing instruments and the agreements regarding BGP’s investment in our company contain a number of restrictive provisions that directly affect us. For example, an investors’ rights agreement grants pre-emptive rights to BGP with respect to certain future issuances of our stock. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to quickly raise funds through a future issuance of our securities, and could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of our company that our stockholders may otherwise consider to be favorable. See “ — Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and certain contractual obligations under our agreement with BGP contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us” below.Our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and our ability to fulfill our obligations and operate our business.As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $190.6 million of total outstanding indebtedness, including $15.1 million of capital leases. As of December 31, 2014, there was no outstanding indebtedness under our New Credit Facility. Under our New Credit Facility, the lenders have currently committed $80.0 million of revolving credit, subject to a borrowing base. As of December 31, 2014, we have approximately $68.2 million available under the New Credit Facility. The amount available will increase or decrease monthly as our borrowing base changes. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. If we are required to post collateral for an appeal bond with a surety during the appeal process, depending on the size of the bond and the level of required collateral, in order to collateralize the bond we might need to utilize a combination of cash on hand an undrawn sums available for borrowing under our New Credit Facility, and possibly incur additional debt financing. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” appearing below in this Form 10-K.In November 2014, Standard and Poor’s (“S&P”) downgraded our company’s corporate and debt ratings. According to S&P, this downgrade reflects S&P’s expectation that our company will face unclear market conditions as a result of the decrease in crude oil and U.S. natural gas prices. Both S&P and Moody’s Investor Services continue to hold a negative outlook on our company due to the weak seismic sector fundamentals and concerns around maintaining sufficient liquidity to fund contingent liabilities.Higher levels of indebtedness could have negative consequences to us, including:•we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt;•we may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes;•we may need to use all, or a substantial portion, of our available cash flow to pay interest and principal on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance our operations and other business activities;•our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse industry conditions could increase;•our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in our industry in general could be limited;•our amount of debt and the amount we must pay to service our debt obligations could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;•our customers may react adversely to our significant debt level and seek or develop alternative licensors or suppliers;•we may have insufficient funds, and our debt level may also restrict us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all of the Notes (defined below) tendered to us upon the occurrence of a change of control, which would constitute an event of default under the Notes; and19Table of Contents •our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects.Our level of indebtedness will require that we use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, which will reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate or business activities. The indenture governing the 8.125% Senior Secured Second-Priority Notes due 2018 (the “Notes”) contains a number of restrictive covenants that limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest.The indenture governing the Notes imposes, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Such restrictions affect or will affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to:•incur additional indebtedness;•create liens;•pay dividends and make other distributions in respect of our capital stock;•redeem our capital stock;•make investments or certain other restricted payments;•sell certain kinds of assets;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•effect mergers or consolidations.The restrictions contained in the indenture governing the Notes could:•limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and•adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest.A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing the Notes. If an event of default occurs, the trustee and holders of the Notes could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. An event of default under the indenture governing the Notes would also constitute an event of default under our New Credit Facility. See Footnote 6 “Long-term Debt and Lease Obligations” of the Footnotes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing below in this Form 10-K.As a technology-focused company, we are continually exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical services and products.We have made, and we will continue to make, strategic decisions from time to time as to the technologies in which we invest. If we choose the wrong technology, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to improve and refine our seismic imaging and data processing services and to successfully develop, manufacture and market our products and other services and products. New technologies generally require a substantial investment before any assurance is available as to their commercial viability. If we choose the wrong technology, or if our competitors develop or select a superior technology, we could lose our existing customers and be unable to attract new customers, which would harm our business and operations. New data acquisition or processing technologies may be developed. New and enhanced services and products introduced by one of our competitors may gain market acceptance and, if not available to us, may adversely affect us.The markets for our services and products are characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. We must invest substantial capital to develop and maintain a leading edge in technology, with no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on those investments. If we are unable to develop and produce successfully and timely new or enhanced services and products, we will be unable to compete in the future and our business, our results of operations and our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our business could suffer from unexpected developments in technology, or from our failure to adapt to these changes. In addition, the preferences and requirements of customers can change rapidly.20Table of Contents The businesses of our Solutions and Software segments, being more concentrated in software, processing services and proprietary technologies, have also exposed us to various risks that these technologies typically encounter, including the following:•future competition from more established companies entering the market;•technology obsolescence;•dependence upon continued growth of the market for seismic data processing;•the rate of change in the markets for these segments’ technology and services;•research and development efforts not proving sufficient to keep up with changing market demands;•dependence on third-party software for inclusion in these segments’ services and products;•misappropriation of these segments’ technology by other companies;•alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights that could result in substantial additional costs;•difficulties inherent in forecasting sales for newly developed technologies or advancements in technologies;•recruiting, training and retaining technically skilled, experienced personnel that could increase the costs for these segments, or limit their growth; and•the ability to maintain traditional margins for certain of their technology or services.Seismic data acquisition and data processing technologies historically have progressed rather rapidly, and we expect this progression to continue. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand our seismic data acquisition and processing capabilities. However, due to potential advances in technology and the related costs associated with such technological advances, we may not be able to fulfill this strategy, thus possibly affecting our ability to compete.Our customers often require demanding specifications for performance and reliability of our services and products. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems are always reliable in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that can, and have from time to time, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected.As a result of our systems’ advanced and complex nature, we expect to experience occasional operational issues from time to time. Generally, until our products have been tested in the field under a wide variety of operational conditions, we cannot be certain that performance and service problems will not arise. In that case, market acceptance of our new products could be delayed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant sums of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our Solutions’ multi-client data library, without knowing precisely how much of this seismic data we will be able to license or when and at what price we will be able to license the data sets. Our business could be adversely affected by the failure of our customers to fulfill their obligations to reimburse us for the underwritten portion of our seismic data acquisition costs for our multi-client library.We invest significant amounts in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our Solutions’ multi-client data library. The costs of most of these investments are funded by our customers, with the remainder generally being recovered through future data licensing fees. In 2014, we invested approximately $67.8 million in our multi-client data library. Our customers generally commit to licensing the data prior to our initiating a new data library acquisition program. However, the aggregate amounts of future licensing fees for this data are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including the market prices of oil and gas, customer demand for seismic data in the library, and the availability of similar data from competitors.By making these investments in acquiring and processing new seismic data for our Solutions’ multi-client library, we are exposed to the following risks:•We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring and processing seismic data through future sales. The ultimate amounts involved in these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control.21Table of Contents •The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from period to period. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized as a percentage of sales and/or over the expected useful life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and, when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility.•Regulatory changes that affect companies’ ability to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets obsolete. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location and oil and gas companies’ interest in prospecting for reserves in such location, so a particular survey may be subject to a significant decline in value beyond our initial estimates.•The value of our multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities.•The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be wrong. The result could be losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These pre-commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could incur a substantial loss on that project.•As part of our asset-light strategy, we routinely charter vessels from third-party vendors to acquire seismic data for our multi-client business. As a result, our cost to acquire our multi-client data could significantly increase if vessel charter prices rise materially.Reductions in demand for our seismic data, or lower revenues of or cash flows from our seismic data, may result in a requirement to increase amortization rates or record impairment charges in order to reduce the carrying value of our data library. These increases or charges, if required, could be material to our operating results for the periods in which they are recorded. A substantial portion (approximately 73% in 2014) of our seismic acquisition project costs (including third-party project costs) are underwritten by our customers. In the event that underwriters for such projects fail to fulfill their obligations with respect to such underwriting commitments, we would continue to be obligated to satisfy our payment obligations to third-party contractors.We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks.The majority of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. Sales to customer destinations outside of North America represented 74%, 73% and 69% of our consolidated net revenues for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. We believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. U.S. export restrictions affect the types and specifications of products we can export. Additionally, in order to complete certain sales, U.S. laws may require us to obtain export licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in obtaining these licenses.Like many energy services companies, we have operations in and sales into certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and the former Soviet Union, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may consider to be state sponsors of terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. Our sales or operations may become restricted or prohibited in any country in which the foregoing risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations:•disruption of E&P activities;•restriction on the movement and exchange of funds;•inhibition of our ability to collect advances and receivables;•enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions;•limitation of our access to markets for periods of time;•expropriation and nationalization of assets of our company or those of our customers;•political and economic instability, which may include armed conflict and civil disturbance;•currency fluctuations, devaluations and conversion restrictions;•confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; and•governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights.22Table of Contents Our international operations and sales increase our exposure to other countries’ restrictive tariff regulations, other import/export restrictions and customer credit risk.In addition, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest.We may be unable to obtain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products and we may become involved in intellectual property disputes; we rely on developing and acquiring proprietary data which we keep confidential.We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies. We believe that the technological and creative skill of our employees, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are the foundations of our competitive advantage. Although we have a considerable portfolio of patents, copyrights and trademarks, these property rights offer us only limited protection. Our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which such use occurs. Our difficulties are compounded in certain foreign countries where the laws do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States.Third parties inquire and claim from time to time that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors own their own extensive global portfolio of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property to protect their proprietary technologies. We believe that we have in place appropriate procedures and safeguards to help ensure that we do not violate a third party’s intellectual property rights. However, no set of procedures and safeguards is infallible. We may unknowingly and inadvertently take action that is inconsistent with a third party’s intellectual property rights, despite our efforts to do otherwise. Any such claims from third parties, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Much of our litigation in recent years have involved disputes over our and others’ rights to technology. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”To protect the confidentiality of our proprietary and trade secret information, we require employees, consultants, contractors, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. Our customer data license and acquisition agreements also identify our proprietary, confidential information and require that such proprietary information be kept confidential. While these steps are taken to strictly maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary and trade secret information, it is difficult to ensure that unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure will not occur. If we are unable to maintain the secrecy of our proprietary, confidential information, we could be materially adversely affected.If we do not effectively manage our transition into new services and products, our revenues may suffer.Services and products for the geophysical industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new services and products, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new services and products are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of inventory and raw materials associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new services and products by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing services and products to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline.Furthermore, sales of our new services and products may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current product or service offerings, offsetting the benefits of a successful introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new services and products in accordance with our revenue, margin and cost estimations and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our services and products, and our future results of operations, may suffer.23Table of Contents Global economic conditions and credit market uncertainties could have an adverse effect on customer demand for certain of our services and products, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition and our stock price.Historically, demand for our services and products has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by E&P companies and geophysical contractors. The demand for our services and products will be lessened if exploration expenditures by E&P companies are reduced. During periods of reduced levels of exploration for oil and natural gas, there have been oversupplies of seismic data and downward pricing pressures on our seismic services and products, which, in turn, have limited our ability to meet sales objectives and maintain profit margins for our services and products. In the past, these then-prevailing industry conditions have had the effect of reducing our revenues and operating margins. The markets for oil and gas historically have been volatile and may continue to be so in the future.Turmoil or uncertainty in the credit markets and its potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings under either existing or new debt facilities in the public or private markets and on terms we believe to be reasonable. Likewise, there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to borrow money for their working capital or capital expenditures on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our services and products and impair their ability to pay us for our services and products on a timely basis, or at all. Our sales have historically been affected by interest rate fluctuations and the availability of liquidity, and we and our customers would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or liquidity constraints. Rising interest rates may also make certain alternative services and products provided by our competitors more attractive to customers, which could lead to a decline in demand for our services and products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our business is exposed to risks related to customer concentration. While no single customer represented 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for 2014, 2013 and 2012, our top five customers together accounted for approximately 35%, 29% and 28%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues during those years. The loss of any of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.During the last ten years, our traditional seismic contractor customers have been rapidly consolidating, thereby consolidating the demand for our services and products. In 2013, CGG acquired Fugro’s geoscience division. This acquisition evidences the further consolidation ongoing in this market, and could have the effect of reducing the number of our potential customers and vessel outfitting opportunities. The loss of any of our significant customers to further consolidation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our stock price has been volatile from time to time, declining precipitously from time to time during the period from 2008 through the present, and it could decline again.The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility in recent years. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects or those of companies in our industry. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by:•operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;•factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as depressed prices for natural gas in North America or disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010;•the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us;•actions by rating agencies related to the Notes;•announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and•changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets.24Table of Contents To the extent that the price of our common stock remains at lower levels or it declines further, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. In addition, further borrowings by us may make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans.Goodwill and intangible assets that we have recorded are subject to impairment evaluations and, as a result, we could be required to write-off additional goodwill and intangible assets. In addition, portions of our products inventory may become obsolete or excessive due to future changes in technology, changes in market demand, or changes in market expectations. Write-downs of these assets may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.In accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 350, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other” (“ASC 350”), we are required to compare the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets (when certain impairment indicators under ASC 350 are present) to their carrying amount. If the fair value of such goodwill or intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of these assets within the reporting units is less than their carrying value. For goodwill testing purposes, the $123.8 million litigation contingency accrual is assigned to the Marine Systems reporting unit. Based on this accrual and the recording of a valuation allowance on substantially all of our net deferred tax assets, this reporting unit’s carrying value was negative as of December 31, 2014. The negative carrying value required us to perform step 2 of the impairment test on Marine Systems; the test determined that the goodwill associated with the Marine Systems reporting unit was impaired. In connection with the preparation of the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we recorded a charge of $21.9 million to impair that goodwill. We also recorded a $1.4 million impairment of certain intangible assets related to customer relationship within our Solutions segment at December 31, 2014.Further reductions in or an impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. At December 31, 2014, our remaining goodwill and other intangible asset balances were $27.4 million and $6.8 million, respectively.Our services and products’ technologies often change relatively quickly. Phasing out of old products involves estimating the amounts of inventories we need to hold to satisfy demand for those products and satisfy future repair part needs. Based on changing technologies and customer demand, we may find that we have either obsolete or excess inventory on hand. Because of unforeseen future changes in technology, market demand or competition, we might have to write off unusable inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for the year ended December 31, 2014, we increased our reserve for excess and obsolete inventories by $7.0 million related to write-downs of inventory. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations.We derive approximately 74% of our consolidated net revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. Through our subsidiaries, we operate in a wide variety of jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, Australia, the Netherlands, Brazil, China, Canada, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and other countries. Certain of these countries have experienced geopolitical instability, economic problems and other uncertainties from time to time. To the extent that world events or economic conditions negatively affect our future sales to customers in these and other regions of the world, or the collectability of receivables, our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the decline in crude oil prices, as well as U.S. and European Union sanctions against Russia related to Russia’s actions in Ukraine, have both contributed to the devaluation of the Russian ruble putting significant pressure on our Russian-based customers and negatively impacting the appeal of seismic data located in Russia to potential non-Russian buyers. Our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition related to our operations in Russia are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. We currently require customers in certain higher risk countries to provide their own financing. We do not currently extend long-term credit through notes to companies in countries where we perceive excessive credit risk.25Table of Contents A majority of our foreign net working capital is within the United Kingdom. Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2014 reflected approximately $15.3 million of net working capital related to our foreign subsidiaries, a majority of which is within the United Kingdom. Our subsidiaries in the U.K. and in other countries receive their income and pay their expenses primarily in their local currencies. To the extent that transactions of these subsidiaries are settled in their local currencies, a devaluation of those currencies versus the U.S. dollar could reduce the contribution from these subsidiaries to our consolidated results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. For financial reporting purposes, such depreciation will negatively affect our reported results of operations since earnings denominated in foreign currencies would be converted to U.S. dollars at a decreased value. In addition, since we participate in competitive bids for sales of certain of our services and products that are denominated in U.S. dollars, a depreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could harm our competitive position relative to other companies. While we periodically employ economic cash flow and fair value hedges to minimize the risks associated with these exchange rate fluctuations, the hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in the values of the currencies of countries in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations.We rely on highly skilled personnel in our businesses, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively.Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our businesses. Competition for qualified personnel required for our data processing operations and our other segments’ businesses has intensified in recent years. Our growth has presented challenges to us to recruit, train and retain our employees while managing the impact of potential wage inflation and the lack of available qualified labor in some markets where we operate. A well-trained, motivated and adequately-staffed work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.However, from time to time, we have to rightsize our work force due to economic and market conditions. In the fourth quarter we initiated restructurings across all our segments, except for our Ocean Bottom Services segment, reducing our overall workforce by approximately 10%. See Part II. Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Executive Summary – Restructuring and Other Charges” for a discussion of the restructuring in the fourth quarter of 2014.If we, our option holders or stockholders holding registration rights sell additional shares of our common stock in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline. The exercise of our stock options could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Sales in the open market of the shares of common stock acquired upon such exercises may have the effect of reducing the then current market price for our common stock.The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market in the future, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of January 30, 2015, we had 164,484,095 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are available for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations or delivery of a prospectus. At January 30, 2015, we had outstanding stock options to purchase up to 8,980,525 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $6.30 per share. We also had, as of that date, 995,777 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards.During 2009, we issued in a privately-negotiated transaction 18.5 million shares of our common stock to certain institutional investors. In March 2010, we issued 23.8 million shares to BGP in a privately-negotiated transaction in connection with the formation of our INOVA Geophysical joint venture. These shares may be resold into the public markets in sale transactions pursuant to currently-effective registration statements filed with the SEC or pursuant to another exemption from registration. Sales in the public market of a large number of shares of common stock (or the perception that such sales could occur) could apply downward pressure on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Shares of our common stock are also subject to certain demand and piggyback registration rights held by Laitram, L.L.C., an affiliate of one of our directors. We also may enter into additional registration rights agreements in the future in connection with any subsequent acquisitions or securities transactions we may undertake. Any sales of our common stock under these registration rights arrangements with Laitram or other stockholders could be negatively perceived in the trading markets and negatively affect the price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market under these arrangements, or the expectation of such sales, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.26Table of Contents Certain of our facilities could be damaged by hurricanes and other natural disasters, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005, were impacted by hurricanes or other weather events. Our Systems segment leases 150,000 square feet of facilities located in Harahan, Louisiana, in the greater New Orleans metropolitan area. In late August 2005, we suspended operations at these facilities and evacuated and locked down the facilities in preparation for Hurricane Katrina. These facilities did not experience flooding or significant damage during or after the hurricane. However, because of employee evacuations, power failures and lack of related support services, utilities and infrastructure in the New Orleans area, we were unable to resume full operations at the facilities until late September 2005. In September 2008, we lost power and related services for several days at our offices located in the Houston metropolitan area, which includes a substantial portion of our data processing infrastructure, and in Harahan, Louisiana as a result of Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav.Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced production, product sales and data processing revenues; costs associated with resuming production; reduced orders for our services and products from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. To the extent that climate change increases the severity of hurricanes and other weather events, as some have suggested, it could worsen the severity of these negative effects on our financial position and operating results.Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility. Regulatory initiatives undertaken from time to time, such as restrictions, sanctions and embargoes, can adversely affect, and have has adversely affected, our customers and our business.In addition to the specific regulatory risks discussed elsewhere in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors” section, our operations are subject to other laws, regulations, government policies and product certification requirements worldwide. Changes in such laws, regulations, policies or requirements could affect the demand for our products or services or result in the need to modify our services and products, which may involve substantial costs or delays in sales and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Our export activities are also subject to extensive and evolving trade regulations. Certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government; most recently Russia. These restrictions, sanctions and embargoes also prohibit or limit us from participating in certain business activities in those countries. Our operations are subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties, and the protection of the environment. These laws have been changed frequently in the past, and there can be no assurance that future changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our customers’ operations are also significantly impacted by laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and endangered species. Consequently, changes in governmental regulations applicable to our customers may reduce demand for our services and products. To the extent that our customers’ operations are disrupted by future laws and regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.Future changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities and decisions by customers, governmental agencies, or other industry participants in response to these changes, could reduce demand for our services and products, which could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We cannot reasonably or reliably estimate that such changes will occur, when they will occur, or whether they will impact us. Such changes can occur quickly within a region, which may impact both the affected region and global exploration and production, and we may not be able to respond quickly, or at all, to mitigate these changes. In addition, these future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions that may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and decrease the demand for our services and products. Climate change regulations or legislation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas our clients intend to produce.In response to concerns suggesting that emissions of and greenhouse gases (including carbon dioxide and methane) (“GHGs”) may be contributing to global climate change, legislative and regulatory measures to address the concerns are in various phases of discussion or implementation. We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues. The United States Congress may consider legislation to reduce GHG emissions. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27Table of Contents At least one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already taken legal measures intended to reduce GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or GHG cap and trade programs. More stringent regulations and laws relating to GHGs and climate change may be adopted in the future and could reduce the demand for our services and products. Reductions in our revenues or increases in our expenses as a result of climate control initiatives could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, any new emissions or other environmental regulations imposed on off-shore vessels could cause the prices of vessels to increase, cause unexpected downtime or affect availability.Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact our revenues by decreasing the demand for our data libraries and seismic acquisition services.Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and gas E&P operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells, particularly in low permeability formations such as shales. The process involves the injection of water, sand, other proppants and chemicals under pressure into the target reservoir to stimulate hydrocarbon production. Our business is highly dependent on the level of activity by our oil and gas E&P customers, and hydrocarbons cannot be economically produced from certain reservoirs without extensive hydraulic fracturing. Due to public concerns about environmental impact that hydraulic fracturing may have, including potential impairment of groundwater quality, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal, state and local levels have been initiated to impose more stringent permitting and compliance obligations on these operations. Several states have implemented, or are considering implementing, new regulations pertaining to hydraulic fracturing, including the disclosure of chemicals used in fracturing operations. A number of state and local governments have also adopted or are considering adopting additional requirements relating to hydraulic fracturing. In certain areas of the country, new drilling permits for hydraulic fracturing have been put on hold pending the completion of studies and development of additional standards. Further governmental reviews are underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with final results expected to be released in early 2015. The adoption of legislation or regulations placing significant restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays and increased operating costs on our customers, making it more difficult and costly for them to complete natural gas and oil wells. In the event such requirements are enacted, demand for our shale data libraries and seismic data acquisition services and products may be adversely affected.We have outsourcing arrangements with third parties to manufacture some of our products. If these third party suppliers fail to deliver quality products or components at reasonable prices on a timely basis, we may alienate some of our customers and our revenues, profitability and cash flow may decline. Additionally, current global economic conditions could have a negative impact on our suppliers, causing a disruption in our vendor supplies. A disruption in vendor supplies may adversely affect our results of operations.Our manufacturing processes require a high volume of quality components. We have increased our use of contract manufacturers as an alternative to our own manufacturing of products. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our towed marine streamers and MEMS components. Certain components used by us are currently provided by only one supplier. If, in implementing any outsource initiative, we are unable to identify contract manufacturers willing to contract with us on competitive terms and to devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our services and products may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement, or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers.Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key components, increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. If any of these risks are realized, our revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. In addition, as we come to rely more heavily on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel resources with expertise to manage problems that may arise from these third-party arrangements.28Table of Contents Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies to us or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.Under some of our outsourcing arrangements, our manufacturing outsourcers purchase agreed-upon inventory levels to meet our forecasted demand. Our manufacturing plans and inventory levels are generally based on sales forecasts. If demand proves to be less than we originally forecasted and we cancel our committed purchase orders, our outsourcers generally will have the right to require us to purchase inventory which they had purchased on our behalf. Should we be required to purchase inventory under these terms, we may be required to hold inventory that we may never utilize.Our business is subject to cybersecurity risks and threats. Threats to our information technology systems associated with cybersecurity risk and cyber incidents or attacks continue to grow. It is also possible that breaches to our systems could go unnoticed for some period of time. Risks associated with these threats include, among other things, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers’ operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate cybersecurity events.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and certain contractual obligations under our agreement with BGP contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us.Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law and the terms of our investor rights agreement with BGP may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for shares of our common stock. These provisions include:•authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;•providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms;•requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;•prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and•establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings.In addition, the terms of our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP and BGP’s investment in our company contain a number of provisions, such as certain pre-emptive rights granted to BGP with respect to certain future issuances of our stock, that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of our company that our stockholders may otherwise consider to be favorable.Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.Note: The foregoing factors pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should not be construed as exhaustive. In addition to the foregoing, we wish to refer readers to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report as well as other filings and reports with the SEC for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.