Item 1A. Risk Factors This report (as well as certain oral statements made from time to time by authorized representatives on behalf of our company) contain statements concerning our future results and performance and other matters that are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry’s results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of other forward-looking statements contained in this report (or in such oral statements) include statements regarding: • expected net revenues, income from operations and net income; • expected gross margins for our products and services; • future benefits to our customers to be derived from new products and services, such as Scorpion and FireFly; • future growth rates for certain of our products and services; • future sales to our significant customers; • expectations of oil and natural gas E&P companies and contractor end-users purchasing our more expensive, more technologically advanced products and services; • the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new products and services; • expectations regarding future mix of business and future asset recoveries; • the timing of anticipated sales; • anticipated timing and success of commercialization and capabilities of products and services under development, and start- up costs associated with their development; • expected improved operational efficiencies from our full-wave digital products and services; • potential future acquisitions; • future levels of capital expenditures; • future cash needs and future sources of cash, including availability under our revolving line of credit facility; • the outcome of pending or threatened disputes and other contingencies; • future demand for seismic equipment and services; • future seismic industry fundamentals; • the adequacy of our future liquidity and capital resources; • future oil and gas commodity prices; • future opportunities for new products and projected research and development expenses; • future worldwide economic conditions; • success in integrating our acquired businesses; • expectations regarding realization of deferred tax assets; and • anticipated results regarding accounting estimates we make. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by risks and uncertainties known or unknown to us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements. Actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations and assumptions. While we cannot identify all of the factors that may cause actual results to vary from our expectations, we believe the following factors should be considered carefully: We may not gain rapid market acceptance for our full-wave digital products, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have spent considerable time and capital developing our full-wave equipment product lines that incorporate our VectorSeis, FireFly, Scorpion, and associated technologies. Because these products rely on a new digital sensor, our ability to sell these products will depend on acceptance of our digital sensor and technology solutions by geophysical contractors and E&P companies. If our customers do not believe that our digital sensor delivers higher quality data with greater operational efficiency, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. The introduction of new seismic technologies and products has traditionally involved long development cycles. Because our full-wave digital products incorporate new technologies, we have experienced slow market acceptance and market penetration for these products. For these reasons, and despite the fact that industry-wide demand for seismic services and equipment has increased in recent years, we have continued to be unable to foresee and accurately predict future sales volumes, revenues, and margins for these new products from period to period with the certainty we have desired. We are exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical products. Our customers often require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies, and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems are always reliable in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that can, and have from time to time, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty, and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected. As a result of our systems’ advanced and complex nature, we expect to experience occasional operational issues from time to time. Generally, until our products have been tested in the field under a wide variety of operational conditions, we cannot be certain that performance and service problems will not arise. Customers do occasionally experience issues and, therefore, there is a possibility that our new products may also suffer from similar issues. In that case, market acceptance of our new products could be delayed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Reservoir Exploration Technology (RXT) has been a significant customer of our Marine Imaging Systems segment. A loss of business from this customer could adversely affect our sales and financial condition if RXT is not replaced by another customer or customers. In May 2007, we entered into a multi-year agreement with RXT under which they have agreed to purchase a minimum of $160 million in VectorSeis Ocean (VSO) systems and related equipment over the next four years. In addition, this agreement entitles ION to receive a royalty of 2.1% of revenues generated by RXT through the use of all VSO equipment commencing in January 2008 until the end of the agreement. In turn, this agreement allows RXT to have exclusive rights to this product line through 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, $60.9 million, or 9%, and $39.6 million, or 8%, respectively, of consolidated net revenues, were attributable to marine equipment sales to RXT. The loss of RXT as a customer or a significant reduction in their equipment or systems needs could reduce our sales 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS volumes and revenues and lessen our cash flows, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unless we can broaden our customer base for these marine products, we can give no assurances that the revenues and cash flows from RXT, if lost, can be replaced. To the extent that the risks faced by RXT cause it to curtail its business activities or to make timely payments to its suppliers, we are subject to the same risks. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and we are subject to seasonality factors. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations from period to period as a result of new product or service introductions, the timing of significant expenses in connection with customer orders, unrealized sales, levels of research and development activities in different periods, the product mix sold, and the seasonality of our business. Because many of our products feature a high sales price and are technologically complex, we generally have experienced long sales cycles for these products and historically incur significant expense at the beginning of these cycles for component parts and other inventory necessary to manufacture a product in anticipation of a future sale, which may not ultimately occur. In addition, the revenues from our sales can vary widely from period to period due to changes in customer requirements. These factors can create fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations from period to period. Variability in our overall gross margins for any period, which depend on the percentages of higher-margin and lower-margin products and services sold in that period, compounds these uncertainties. As a result, if net revenues or gross margins fall below expectations, our results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. Additionally, our business can be seasonal in nature, with strongest demand typically in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Due to the relatively high sales price of many of our products and seismic data libraries and relatively low unit sales volume, our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period due to the timing of orders and shipments and the mix of products and services sold. This uneven pattern makes financial predictions for any given period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places challenges on our inventory management. Delays caused by factors beyond our control, such as the granting of permits for seismic surveys by third parties and the availability and equipping of marine vessels, can affect our ION Solutions division’s revenues from its processing and ISS services from period to period. Also, delays in ordering products or in shipping or delivering products in a given period could significantly affect our results of operations for that period. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause greater volatility in the price of our common stock and convertible notes. We rely on highly skilled personnel in our businesses, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our businesses. Competition for qualified personnel required for our ION Solutions division’s data processing operations and our other segments’ businesses has intensified as worldwide seismic activity and oil and natural gas exploration and development have increased. Rapid growth presents a challenge to us and our industry to recruit, train, and retain our employees while managing the impact of potential wage inflation and the potential lack of available qualified labor in some markets where we operate. In recent periods, the demand from E&P companies for ION Solutions’ services has increased dramatically, putting pressures on its workforce to meet this demand. A well-trained, motivated, adequately-staffed work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks. Sales to customers outside of North America accounted for 62% of our consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, and we believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. United States export restrictions affect the types and specifications of products we can export. Additionally, to complete certain sales, United States laws may require us to obtain export licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in obtaining these licenses. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Like many energy service companies, we have operations in and sales into certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America, the Asia Pacific region, and the Commonwealth of Independent States, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, possible economic and future legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may deem to sponsor terrorism), and changes in global trade policies. Our sales or operations may become restricted or prohibited in any country in which the foregoing risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations: • disruption of oil and natural gas E&P activities; • restriction of the movement and exchange of funds; • inhibition of our ability to collect receivables; • enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions; • limitation of our access to markets for periods of time; • expropriation and nationalization of our assets; • political and economic instability, which may include armed conflict and civil disturbance; • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; • confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; and • governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights. Our international operations and sales increase our exposure to other countries’ restrictive tariff regulations, other import/export restrictions, and customer credit risk. In addition, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties, and/or interest. Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. We derive a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. Through our subsidiaries, we operate in a wide variety of jurisdictions, including the Netherlands, United Kingdom, China, Venezuela, Canada, India, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, and other countries. A majority of our foreign net working capital is within the Netherlands and United Kingdom. The subsidiaries in those countries receive their income and pay their expenses primarily in euros and British pounds (GBP), respectively. To the extent that transactions of these subsidiaries are settled in euros or GBP, a devaluation of these currencies versus the U.S. dollar could reduce the contribution from these subsidiaries to our consolidated results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. For financial reporting purposes, such depreciation will negatively affect our reported results of operations since Euro-denominated earnings that are converted to U.S. dollars are stated at a decreased value. In addition, since we participate in competitive bids for sales of certain of our products and services that are denominated in U.S. dollars, a depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Euro harms our competitive position against companies whose financial strength bears less correlation to the strength of the U.S. dollar. While we have employed economic cash flow hedges designed to minimize the risks associated with these exchange rate fluctuations, the hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in the values of the currencies of countries in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we do not effectively manage our transitions into new products and services, our revenues may suffer. Products and services for the seismic industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new products and services, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new products and services are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of inventory and raw materials associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new products and services by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing products and services to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline. Furthermore, sales of our new products and services may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current offerings, offsetting the benefit of a successful introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new products and services in accordance with our revenue, margin, and cost estimates and to achieve operational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our products and services, and our future results of operations, may suffer. Technological change in the seismic industry requires us to make substantial research and development expenditures. The markets for our products and services are characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. We must invest substantial capital to develop and maintain a leading edge in technology, with no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on those investments. If we are unable to develop and produce successfully and timely new and enhanced products and services, we will be unable to compete in the future and our business, our results of operations and our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. We invest significant sums of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our ION Solutions’ multi-client data library. We invest significant amounts in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our ION Solutions’ multi-client data library. A majority of these investments is funded by our customers, while the remainder is recovered through future data licensing fees. For 2007, we invested $64.3 million in our multi-client data library. Our customers generally commit to licensing the data prior to our initiating a new data library acquisition program. However, the aggregate amounts of future licensing fees for this data are sometimes uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including the market prices of oil and gas, customer demand for seismic data in the library, and the availability of similar data from competitors. We may not be able to recover all of the costs of or earn any return on these investments. In periods in which sales do not meet original expectations, we may be required to record additional amortization and/or impairment charges to reduce the carrying value of our data library, which charges may be material to our results of operations in any period. The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have traditionally relied on a relatively small number of significant customers. Consequently, our business is exposed to the risks related to customer concentration. No single customer represented 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005; however, our top five customers in total represented approximately 31%, 29% and 26%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues during those years. The loss of any of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Historically, a relatively small number of customers has accounted for the majority of our net revenues in any period. During the last ten years, our traditional seismic contractor customers have been rapidly consolidating, thereby consolidating the demand for our products. In January 2007, the French seismic contractor, Compagnie General de Geophysique (CGG) acquired Veritas DGC, Inc., a large U.S. seismic contractor and a traditional customer for our products. CGG is the owner of our principal competitor for land and marine seismic equipment, Sercel. While the Veritas acquisition by CGG has not had a material impact on us, the loss of any of our significant customers to further consolidation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. ION Solutions and Data Management Solutions increase our exposure to the risks experienced by more technology-intensive companies. The businesses of ION Solutions and Data Management Solutions, being more concentrated in software, processing services, and proprietary technologies than our traditional business, have exposed us to the risks typically encountered by smaller technology companies that are more dependent on proprietary technology protection and research and development. These risks include: • future competition from more established companies entering the market; • product obsolescence; • dependence upon continued growth of the market for seismic data processing; • the rate of change in the markets for GXT’s and Concept Systems’ technology and services; • research and development efforts not proving sufficient to keep up with changing market demands; • dependence on third-party software for inclusion in GXT’s and Concept Systems’ products and services; • misappropriation of GXT’s or Concept Systems’ technology by other companies; • alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights that could result in substantial additional costs; • difficulties inherent in forecasting sales for newly developed technologies or advancements in technologies; • recruiting, training, and retaining technically skilled personnel that could increase the costs for GXT or Concept Systems, or limit their growth; and • the ability to maintain traditional margins for certain of their technology or services. We are subject to intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels. Many of our sales are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for our industry. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, technological expertise, and a reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of our segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of our segments. New entrants in many of the markets in which certain of our products and services are currently strong should be expected. See “Item 1. — Business — Competition.” We compete with companies that are larger than ION in terms of revenues, number of processing locations and sales and marketing resources. A few of our competitors have a competitive advantage in being part of an affiliated seismic contractor company. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates. Some of our competitors conduct seismic data acquisition operations as part of their regular business, which we do not, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production levels, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, if geophysical service companies increase their capacity in the future (or do not reduce their capacity if demand decreases), the excess supply in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices for our products and services. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Certain of our facilities could be damaged by hurricanes and other natural disasters, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005, were impacted by hurricanes or weather events. Our Marine Imaging Systems segment leases 99,000-square feet of facilities located in Harahan, Louisiana, in the greater New Orleans metropolitan area. In late August 2005, we suspended operations at this facility and evacuated and locked down the facility in preparation for Hurricane Katrina. This facility did not experience flooding or significant damage during or after the hurricane. However, because of employee evacuations, power failures and lack of related support services, utilities and infrastructure in the New Orleans area, we were unable to resume full operations at the facility until late September 2005. Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced production and product sales; costs associated with resuming production; reduced orders for our products from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. Disruption in vendor supplies may adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing processes require a high volume of quality components. Certain components used by us are currently provided by only one supplier. We may, from time to time, experience supply or quality control problems with suppliers, and these problems could significantly affect our ability to meet production and sales commitments. Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involve several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key components and increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules; any of these could adversely affect our future results of operations. We have outsourcing arrangements with third parties to manufacture some of our products. If these third parties fail to deliver quality products or components at reasonable prices on a timely basis, we may alienate some of our customers and our revenues, profitability, and cash flow may decline. We have increased our use of contract manufacturers as an alternative to our own manufacturing of products. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our vibrator vehicles, our towed marine streamers, our redeployable ocean bottom cables, our Applied MEMS components, various components of VectorSeis Ocean, and certain electronic and ground components of our land acquisition systems. If, in implementing any outsource initiative, we are unable to identify contract manufacturers willing to contract with us on competitive terms and to devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our products and services may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations, and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement, or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers. If any of these risks are realized, our revenues, profitability, and cash flow may decline. In addition, as we come to rely more heavily on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel resources with expertise to manage problems that may arise from these third-party arrangements. Our outsourcing relationships may require us to purchase inventory when demand for products produced by third-party manufacturers is low. Under some of our outsourcing arrangements, our manufacturing outsourcers purchase agreed-upon inventory levels to meet our forecasted demand. Our manufacturing plans and inventory levels are generally based on sales forecasts. If demand proves to be less than we originally forecasted and we cancel our committed purchase orders, our outsourcers generally will have the right to require us to purchase inventory which they had purchased on our behalf. Should we be required to purchase inventory under these terms, we may be required to hold inventory that we may never utilize. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Under our five-year supply agreement with Colibrys Ltd., we have committed to purchase a minimum number of MEMS accelerometers with an agreed upon cost of between $7.0 million to $8.0 million per year through 2009. If demand for our VectorSeis products, of which MEMS accelerometers are a component, prove to be less than we originally forecasted, we could be required to purchase MEMS accelerometers that we may never utilize. We may be unable to obtain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products and we may become involved in intellectual property disputes. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies. We believe that the technological and creative skill of our employees, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are the foundations of our competitive advantage. Although we have a considerable portfolio of patents, copyrights, and trademarks, these property rights offer us only limited protection. Our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which such use occurs. Our difficulties are compounded in certain foreign countries where the laws do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States. Third parties inquire and claim from time to time that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on capital expenditures by the oil and natural gas industry, and reductions in such expenditures may have a material adverse effect on our business. Demand for our products and services has historically been dependent upon the level of capital expenditures by oil and natural gas companies for exploration, production and development activities. Our customers’ expenditures have a significant direct relationship with current oil and gas prices and with expectations regarding future oil and gas prices. Lower or volatile oil and gas prices or the perception that the same are imminent may tend to limit the demand for seismic services and products. Oil and gas prices may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control, including: • worldwide demand for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids; • worldwide levels of oil and gas production; • worldwide political, military and economic conditions; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels of member countries and to create expectations that directly correspond with prices for oil; • refining capacity and its ability to meet consumer demand; • speculation by investors with respect to oil and gas commodity prices; • oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries; • the price, availability and demand for alternative fuels; • policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of oil and gas reserves in their territories; • difficulty in accessing certain promising prospects due to geopolitical or environmental concerns; and • global weather conditions that may affect the demand for oil and gas and/or inhibit the ability of oil and gas companies to produce oil and gas products. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Although oil and natural gas prices are currently high compared with historical values, a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely impact our operating results. Our outstanding Series D-1 Preferred Stock, Series D-2 Preferred Stock, Series D-3 Preferred Stock and 5.5% convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock. Under certain circumstances, the conversion of these securities could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, and sales in the open market of the shares of common stock acquired upon conversion may have the effect of reducing the then-current market prices for our common stock. The conversion of our outstanding shares of Series D-1 Preferred Stock, Series D-2 Preferred Stock and Series D-3 Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. In addition, in November 2007, a holder of approximately $52.8 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 5.5% convertible senior notes converted its notes into 12,212,964 shares of common stock, reducing the outstanding principal amount of the notes to approximately $7.2 million. The conversion of these convertible notes have diluted and will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion would apply downward pressure on prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the very existence of the outstanding convertible notes and of the outstanding shares of the three series of Series D Preferred Stock represents potential issuances of common stock, and perhaps potential sales into the market of our common stock to be acquired on conversion, which could also depress trading prices for our common stock. Future technologies and businesses that we may acquire may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. An important aspect of our current business strategy is to seek new technologies, products, and businesses to broaden the scope of our existing and planned product lines and technologies. While we believe that these acquisitions complement our technologies and our general business strategy, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefit of these acquisitions. In addition, these acquisitions may result in unexpected costs, expenses, and liabilities. Acquisitions expose us to: • increased costs associated with the acquisition and operation of the new businesses or technologies and the management of geographically dispersed operations; • risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies, operations, sites, and personnel; • the possible loss of key employees and costs associated with their loss; • risks that any technology we acquire may not perform as well as we had anticipated; • the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from existing business concerns; • the potential inability to replicate operating efficiencies in the acquired company’s operations; • potential impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; • the inability to generate revenues to offset associated acquisition costs; • the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls, and procedures; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new and inexperienced management personnel; and • the risk that acquired technologies do not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. Integration of the acquired businesses requires significant efforts from each entity, including coordinating existing business plans and research and development efforts. Integrating operations may distract management’s attention from the day-to-day operation of the combined companies. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses, our future results will be negatively impacted. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility. Our operations are subject to laws, regulations, government policies, and product certification requirements worldwide. Changes in such laws, regulations, policies or requirements could affect the demand for our products or result in the need to modify products, which may involve substantial costs or delays in sales and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Our export activities are also subject to extensive and evolving trade regulations. Certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes imposed by the United States government. These restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes also prohibit or limit us from participating in certain business activities in those countries. Our operations are subject to numerous local, state, and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties, and the protection of the environment. These laws have been changed frequently in the past, and there can be no assurance that future changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our customers’ operations are also significantly impacted by laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and endangered species. Consequently, changes in governmental regulations applicable to our customers may reduce demand for our products. For instance, regulations regarding the protection of marine mammals in the Gulf of Mexico may reduce demand for our air guns and other marine products. To the extent that our customers’ operations are disrupted by future laws and regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. A downturn in the U.S. economy would adversely affect the demand for our products and services and our operations, and, as a result, may have a negative impact on our future revenues and cash flow. A downturn in the U.S. economy and in the local economies of the countries or regions in which we sell our products and services could negatively affect demand for our products and services, which would negatively affect our business and results of operations. In the past, downturns in the U.S. economy have caused weakened demand and lower prices for oil and natural gas on a worldwide basis, which have tended to reduce the levels of exploration for oil and natural gas. Historically, demand for our products and services has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by oil companies and geophysical contractors; the demand for our products and services will likely be reduced if the level of exploration expenditures is reduced. During periods of reduced levels of exploration for oil and natural gas, there have been oversupplies of seismic data and downward pricing pressures on our seismic products and services, which in turn, have limited our ability to meet sales objectives and maintain profit margins for our products and services. In the past, these then-prevailing industry conditions have had the effect of reducing our revenues and operating margins. The markets for oil and gas historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be so in the future. Important factors that could cause demand for our products and services to fluctuate include: • changes in business and economic conditions, including a downturn in the overall economy; • changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; • increases in unemployment; • the risk of a recession; • higher interest rates; and • inflation. Note: The foregoing factors pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should not be construed as exhaustive. In addition to the foregoing, we wish to refer readers to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report as well as other filings and reports with the SEC for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 