Item 1A. Risk FactorsThis report contains or incorporates by reference statements concerning our future results and performance and other matters that are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (“Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our or our industry’s results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “would,” “should,” “intend,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Examples of other forward-looking statements contained or incorporated by reference in this report include statements regarding:•the expected outcome of litigation and other claims against us (see Item 3 -“Legal Proceedings” below);•any future potential adverse effects on our liquidity from our being required to post an appeal bond in the WesternGeco litigation referred to in Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings” in the event that we are subject to a significant adverse judgment in the matter;•the effects of current and future worldwide economic conditions and demand for oil and natural gas and seismic equipment and services;•the effects of current and future unrest in the Middle East, North Africa and other regions;•the effects of consolidation and vertical integration in the towed marine seismic streamers market;•future benefits to be derived from our INOVA Geophysical joint venture;•future increases of capital expenditures for seismic activities;•the timing of anticipated sales and associated realized revenues;•future levels of spending by our customers;•the timing of future revenue realization of anticipated orders for seismic data processing work in our Solutions segment;•future oil and gas commodity prices;•future effects resulting from the April 2010 Deepwater Horizon incident, and any further slowdown in E&P activities in the Gulf of Mexico;•expected net revenues, income from operations and net income;•expected improved revenues from data processing services in our Solutions segment;•expected gross margins for our services and products;16Table of Contents•future demand for seismic equipment and services;•future benefits to our customers to be derived from new services and products;•future benefits to be derived from our investments in technologies and acquired companies;•future growth rates for our services and products;•the degree and rate of future market acceptance of our new services and products;•our expectations regarding oil and gas exploration and production companies and contractor end-users purchasing our more technologically-advanced services and products;•anticipated timing and success of commercialization and capabilities of services and products under development and start-up costs associated with their development;•future cash needs and future availability of cash to fund our operations and pay our obligations;•potential future acquisitions;•future levels of capital expenditures;•our ability to maintain our costs at consistent percentages of our revenues in the future;•future seismic industry fundamentals;•future opportunities for new products and projected research and development expenses;•future success in integrating acquired businesses;•future compliance with our debt financial covenants;•expectations regarding realization of deferred tax assets; and•anticipated results regarding accounting estimates we make.These forward-looking statements reflect our best judgment about future events and trends based on the information currently available to us. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by risks and uncertainties known or unknown to us. Therefore, we cannot guarantee the accuracy of the forward-looking statements. Actual events and results of operations may vary materially from our current expectations and assumptions. While we cannot identify all of the factors that may cause actual results to vary from our expectations, we believe the following factors should be considered carefully:An unfavorable judgment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and liquidity.In August 2012, a jury in the WesternGeco L.L.C. v. ION Geophysical Corporation litigation (see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” below) returned a verdict of approximately $105.9 million in damages against us. As of the date of this filing, the federal district trial court had not entered its judgment in the matter. Because the jury concluded that our infringement was willful, the trial court judge will determine, in his independent judgment, whether we willfully infringed and he should declare this case to be “exceptional.” In order for the judge to find willful infringement and declare this case exceptional, WesternGeco must prove, by clear and convincing evidence, that we acted with objective recklessness and in bad faith, fraudulently or engaged in similar misconduct related to the case. If the judge finds willful infringement and declares this case to be exceptional, the judge has the discretion, but not the obligation, to enhance the damages amount, not to exceed a trebling of the final judgment damages award plus reasonable attorneys’ fees. We believe that, given our understanding and analysis of applicable law and the relevant facts and evidence in this case, and after considering the advice of counsel, it is unlikely that we will incur any additional loss as a result of the jury’s finding of willfulness. We also believe that the verdict is inconsistent with applicable law and the facts or evidence in the case, and we have filed motions with the trial court to overturn all or portions of the verdict. If the trial court enters a judgment that is adverse to us, we would continue to defend this matter vigorously and would intend to appeal the judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In order to appeal the judgment, we may be required to post an appeal bond for the full amount of damages entered in the judgment. To post and collateralize a bond of that size, or if we become subject to a significant adverse judgment in this lawsuit, we might have to utilize a combination of cash on hand, undrawn balances available under our revolving line of credit under our senior debt facility and possibly incur additional debt and/or equity financing. The posting and collateralization of such an appeal bond could have a possible adverse effect on our liquidity. If we are unable to post the appeal bond, we may be unable to stay enforcement of the judgment or appeal the case. At this time, we are unable to determine whether an appeal bond would be required or the amount of such an appeal bond. Similarly, we are unable to predict the timing of the final judgment being entered by the trial court or the timing of posting any required appeal bond.17Table of ContentsNo assurances can be made whether our efforts to raise additional cash would be successful, and if so, whether the terms of such financings would be on favorable terms to us and our stockholders. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of debt and/or equity securities, these securities could have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable to those that holders of our current debt or equity securities currently have, and the terms of these securities could impose restrictions on our operations. If we are unable to raise additional capital under these circumstances, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. If our efforts to reverse or reduce the verdict substantially are unsuccessful, it would likely have the effect of reducing our capital resources available to fund our operations and take advantage of certain business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.As a technology-focused company, we are continually exposed to risks related to complex, highly technical services and products.We have made, and we will continue to make, strategic decisions from time to time as to the technologies in which we invest. If we choose the wrong technology, our financial results could be adversely impacted. Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to improve and refine our seismic imaging services and to successfully develop, manufacture, and market our products and other services and products. New technologies generally require a substantial investment before any assurance is available as to their commercial viability. If we choose the wrong technology, or if our competitors develop or select a superior technology, we could lose our existing customers and be unable to attract new customers, which would harm our business and operations.The markets for our services and products are characterized by changing technology and new product introductions. We must invest substantial capital to develop and maintain a leading edge in technology, with no assurance that we will receive an adequate rate of return on those investments. If we are unable to develop and produce successfully and timely new or enhanced services and products, we will be unable to compete in the future and our business, our results of operations and our financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our business could suffer from unexpected developments in technology, or from our failure to adapt to these changes. In addition, the preferences and requirements of customers can change rapidly.The businesses of our Solutions and Software segments, being more concentrated in software, processing services, and proprietary technologies, have also exposed us to various risks that these technologies typically encounter, including the following:•future competition from more established companies entering the market;•technology obsolescence;•dependence upon continued growth of the market for seismic data processing;•the rate of change in the markets for these segments’ technology and services;•research and development efforts not proving sufficient to keep up with changing market demands;•dependence on third-party software for inclusion in these segments’ services and products;•misappropriation of these segments’ technology by other companies;•alleged or actual infringement of intellectual property rights that could result in substantial additional costs;•difficulties inherent in forecasting sales for newly developed technologies or advancements in technologies;•recruiting, training, and retaining technically skilled personnel that could increase the costs for these segments, or limit their growth; and•the ability to maintain traditional margins for certain of their technology or services.Seismic data acquisition and data processing technologies historically have progressed rather rapidly, and we expect this progression to continue. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand our seismic data acquisition and processing capabilities. However, due to potential advances in technology and the related costs associated with such technological advances, we may not be able to fulfill this strategy, thus possibly affecting our ability to compete.Our customers often require demanding specifications for performance and reliability of our services and products. Because many of our products are complex and often use unique advanced components, processes, technologies, and techniques, undetected errors and design and manufacturing flaws may occur. Even though we attempt to assure that our systems are always reliable in the field, the many technical variables related to their operations can cause a combination of factors that can, and have from time to time, caused performance and service issues with certain of our products. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty, and replacement costs and may affect our customer relationships and industry 18Table of Contentsreputation, all of which may adversely impact our results of operations. Despite our testing and quality assurance programs, undetected errors may not be discovered until the product is purchased and used by a customer in a variety of field conditions. If our customers deploy our new products and they do not work correctly, our relationship with our customers may be materially and adversely affected.As a result of our systems’ advanced and complex nature, we expect to experience occasional operational issues from time to time. Generally, until our products have been tested in the field under a wide variety of operational conditions, we cannot be certain that performance and service problems will not arise. In that case, market acceptance of our new products could be delayed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.We are subject to intense competition, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or to maintain our prices at profitable levels.Many of our sales are obtained through a competitive bidding process, which is standard for our industry. Competitive factors in recent years have included price, technological expertise, and a reputation for quality, safety and dependability. While no single company competes with us in all of our segments, we are subject to intense competition in each of our segments. New entrants in many of the markets in which certain of our services and products are currently strong should be expected. See Item 1. “Business — Competition.” We compete with companies that are larger than we are in terms of revenues, number of processing locations and sales and marketing resources. A few of our competitors have a competitive advantage in being part of an affiliated seismic contractor company. In addition, we compete with major service providers and government-sponsored enterprises and affiliates. Some of our competitors conduct seismic data acquisition operations as part of their regular business, which we do not, and have greater financial and other resources than we do. These and other competitors may be better positioned to withstand and adjust more quickly to volatile market conditions, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, as well as changes in government regulations. In addition, any excess supply of services and products in the seismic services market could apply downward pressure on prices for our services and products. The negative effects of the competitive environment in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We may be unable to obtain broad intellectual property protection for our current and future products and we may become involved in intellectual property disputes.We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technologies. We believe that the technological and creative skill of our employees, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are the foundations of our competitive advantage. Although we have a considerable portfolio of patents, copyrights, and trademarks, these property rights offer us only limited protection. Our competitors may attempt to copy aspects of our products despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, or may design around the proprietary features of our products. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult, and we are unable to determine the extent to which such use occurs. Our difficulties are compounded in certain foreign countries where the laws do not offer as much protection for proprietary rights as the laws of the United States.Third parties inquire and claim from time to time that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Many of our competitors own their own extensive global portfolio of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property to protect their proprietary technologies. We believe that we have in place appropriate procedures and safeguards to help ensure that we do not violate a third party’s intellectual property rights. However, no set of procedures and safeguards is infallible. We may unknowingly and inadvertently take action that is inconsistent with a third party’s intellectual property rights, despite our efforts to do otherwise. Any such claims from third parties, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, result in injunctions, require product modifications, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Much of our litigation in recent years have involved disputes over our and others’ rights to technology. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”Our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP involves numerous risks.Our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP is focused on designing, engineering, manufacturing, research and development, sales and marketing and field support of land-based equipment used in seismic data acquisition for the oil and gas industry. Excluded from the scope of the joint venture’s business are the analog sensor businesses of our company and BGP and the businesses of certain companies in which BGP or we are currently a minority owner. In addition to these excluded businesses, all of our other businesses — including our Solutions, Systems and Software segments — remain owned and operated by us and do not comprise a part of the joint venture.19Table of ContentsThe INOVA Geophysical joint venture involves the integration of multiple product lines and business models contributed by us and BGP that previously have operated independently. This has been a complex and time-consuming process.There can be no assurance that we will achieve the expected benefits of the joint venture. The INOVA Geophysical joint venture (and any future joint ventures or acquisitions that we may complete), may result in unexpected costs, expenses, and liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. INOVA Geophysical may encounter difficulties in developing and expanding its business. We may experience difficulties in funding any future capital contributions to the joint venture, exercising influence over the management and activities of the joint venture, quality control over joint venture products and services and potential conflicts of interest with the joint venture and our joint venture partner. Any inability to meet our obligations as a joint venture partner under the joint venture agreement could result in our being subject to penalties and reduced percentage interests in the joint venture for our company. Also, we could be disadvantaged in the event of disputes and controversies with our joint venture partner, since our joint venture partner is a relatively significant customer of our services and products and future services and products of the joint venture as well as a holder of approximately 15% of our common stock.The joint venture is also subject to, and exposes us to, various additional risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. These risks include the following:•as a condition in our senior secured credit facility, INOVA Geophysical provides a bank stand-by letter of credit as credit support for our obligations under the credit facility;•increased costs associated with the integration and operation of the new business and the management of geographically dispersed operations;•risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies (including incorporating BGP's land seismic equipment with our land seismic imaging product lines that we contributed to the joint venture), operations, sites, and personnel;•difficulties in retaining and integrating key technical, sales and marketing personnel and the possible loss of such employees and costs associated with their loss;•difficulties associated with preserving relationships with our customers, partners and vendors;•risks that any technology developed by the joint venture may not perform as well as we had anticipated;•the diversion of management’s attention and other resources from other business operations and related concerns;•the potential inability to replicate operating efficiencies in the joint venture’s operations;•potential impairments of goodwill and intangible assets;•the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls and procedures;•the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of the integration of management personnel from different companies;•the divergence of our interests from BGP’s interests in the future, disagreements with BGP on ongoing manufacturing, research and development and operational activities, or the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the joint venture;•the terms of our joint venture arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable to us;•we currently own 49% of the total equity interests in INOVA Geophysical, so there are certain decisions affecting the business of the joint venture that we cannot control or influence;•we may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from the joint venture;•the joint venture’s cash flows may be inadequate to fund its capital requirements, thereby requiring additional contributions to the capital of the joint venture by us and by BGP;•joint venture profits and cash flows may prove inadequate to fund cash dividends from the joint venture to the joint venture partners; and•the joint venture may experience difficulties and delays in production of the joint venture’s products.If the INOVA Geophysical joint venture is not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected.20Table of ContentsIn addition, the terms of the joint venture’s governing instruments and the agreements regarding BGP’s investment in our company contain a number of restrictive provisions affecting ION. For example, an investors’ rights agreement grants pre-emptive rights to BGP with respect to certain future issuances of our stock. These restrictions may adversely affect our ability to quickly raise funds through a future issuance of our securities, and could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of our company that our stockholders may otherwise consider to be favorable.We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from foreign operations and sales, which pose additional risks.Sales to customer destinations outside of North America represented 69%, 66% and 60% of our consolidated net revenues for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. We believe that export sales will remain a significant percentage of our revenue. U.S. export restrictions affect the types and specifications of products we can export. Additionally, in order to complete certain sales, U.S. laws may require us to obtain export licenses, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulty in obtaining these licenses.Like many energy services companies, we have operations in and sales into certain international areas, including parts of the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific and the former Soviet Union, that are subject to risks of war, political disruption, civil disturbance, political corruption, possible economic and legal sanctions (such as possible restrictions against countries that the U.S. government may deem to sponsor terrorism) and changes in global trade policies. Our sales or operations may become restricted or prohibited in any country in which the foregoing risks occur. In particular, the occurrence of any of these risks could result in the following events, which in turn, could materially and adversely impact our results of operations:•disruption of oil and natural gas E&P activities;•restriction on the movement and exchange of funds;•inhibition of our ability to collect receivables;•enactment of additional or stricter U.S. government or international sanctions;•limitation of our access to markets for periods of time;•expropriation and nationalization of assets of our company or those of our customers;•political and economic instability, which may include armed conflict and civil disturbance;•currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions;•confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; and•governmental actions that may result in the deprivation of our contractual rights.Our international operations and sales increase our exposure to other countries’ restrictive tariff regulations, other import/export restrictions and customer credit risk.In addition, we are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and the final determination of our tax liabilities involves the interpretation of the statutes and requirements of taxing authorities worldwide. Our tax returns are subject to routine examination by taxing authorities, and these examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, penalties and/or interest.If we do not effectively manage our transition into new services and products, our revenues may suffer.Services and products for the seismic industry are characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware performance, software functionality and features, frequent introduction of new services and products, and improvement in price characteristics relative to product and service performance. Among the risks associated with the introduction of new services and products are delays in development or manufacturing, variations in costs, delays in customer purchases or reductions in price of existing products in anticipation of new introductions, write-offs or write-downs of the carrying costs of inventory and raw materials associated with prior generation products, difficulty in predicting customer demand for new product and service offerings and effectively managing inventory levels so that they are in line with anticipated demand, risks associated with customer qualification, evaluation of new products, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects or may not be supported adequately by application software. The introduction of new services and products by our competitors also may result in delays in customer purchases and difficulty in predicting customer demand. If we do not make an effective transition from existing services and products to future offerings, our revenues and margins may decline.Furthermore, sales of our new services and products may replace sales, or result in discounting of some of our current product or service offerings, offsetting the benefits of a successful introduction. In addition, it may be difficult to ensure performance of new services and products in accordance with our revenue, margin, and cost estimations and to achieve 21Table of Contentsoperational efficiencies embedded in our estimates. Given the competitive nature of the seismic industry, if any of these risks materializes, future demand for our services and products, and our future results of operations, may suffer.We invest significant sums of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for our Solutions’ multi-client data library.We invest significant amounts in acquiring and processing new seismic data to add to our Solutions’ multi-client data library. A majority of these investments are funded by our customers, while the remainder is recovered through future data licensing fees. In 2012, we invested approximately $146 million in our multi-client data library. Our customers generally commit to licensing the data prior to our initiating a new data library acquisition program. However, the aggregate amounts of future licensing fees for this data are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, including the market prices of oil and gas, customer demand for seismic data in the library, and the availability of similar data from competitors.By making these investments in acquiring and processing new seismic data for our Solutions’ multi-client library, we are exposed to the following risks:•We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring and processing seismic data through future sales. The ultimate amounts involved in these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control.•The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from period to period. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized as a percentage of sales and/or over the expected useful life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and, when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility.•Regulatory changes that affect companies’ ability to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets obsolete. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location and oil and gas companies’ interest in prospecting for reserves in such location, so a particular survey may be subject to a significant decline in value beyond our initial estimates.•The value of our multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities.•The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be wrong. The result could be losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These pre-commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could incur a substantial loss on that project.•As part of our asset-light strategy, we routinely charter vessels from third-party vendors to acquire seismic data for our multi-client business. As a result, our cost to acquire our multi-client data could significantly increase if vessel charter prices rise materially.Any reduction in the market value of such data will require us to write down its recorded value, which could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations.Global economic conditions, credit market uncertainties and lower natural gas prices could have an adverse effect on customer demand for certain of our services and products, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition and our stock price.The global recession resulting from the 2008 financial crisis contributed to weakened demand and lower prices for natural gas on a worldwide basis, which reduced the levels of exploration for natural gas. Historically, demand for our services and products has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by E&P companies and geophysical contractors. The demand for our services and products will be lessened if exploration expenditures by E&P companies are reduced. During periods of reduced levels of exploration for oil and natural gas, there have been oversupplies of seismic data and downward pricing pressures on our seismic services and products, which, in turn, have limited our ability to meet sales objectives and maintain profit margins for our services and products. In the past, these then-prevailing industry conditions have had the effect of reducing our revenues and operating margins. The markets for oil and gas historically have been volatile and may continue to be so in the future.Turmoil or uncertainty in the credit markets and its potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings under either existing or new debt facilities in the public or private markets and on terms we believe to be reasonable. Likewise, there can be no assurance that our customers will be able to borrow money for their working capital or capital expenditures on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, which could have a negative impact on their demand for our services and products and impair their ability to pay us for our services and products on a timely basis, or at all. 22Table of ContentsOur sales have historically been affected by interest rate fluctuations and the availability of liquidity, and we would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or liquidity constraints. Rising interest rates may also make certain alternative services and products provided by our competitors more attractive to customers, which could lead to a decline in demand for our services and products. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period, and we are subject to seasonality factors.Our operating results are subject to fluctuations from period to period as a result of new product or service introductions, the timing of significant expenses in connection with customer orders, unrealized sales, levels of research and development activities in different periods, the product mix sold, and the seasonality of our business. Because many of our products feature a high sales price and are technologically complex, we generally have experienced long sales cycles for these products and historically incur significant expense at the beginning of these cycles for component parts and other inventory necessary to manufacture a product in anticipation of a future sale, which may not ultimately occur. In addition, the revenues from our sales can vary widely from period to period due to changes in customer requirements and demand. These factors can create fluctuations in our net revenues and results of operations from period to period. Variability in our overall gross margins for any period, which depend on the percentages of higher-margin and lower-margin services and products sold in that period, compounds these uncertainties. As a result, if net revenues or gross margins fall below expectations, our results of operations and financial condition will likely be adversely affected. Additionally, our business can be seasonal in nature, with strongest demand typically in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. Customer budgeting cycles at times result in higher spending activity levels by our customers at different points of the year.Due to the relatively high sales price of many of our products and seismic data libraries, our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period due to the timing of orders and shipments and the mix of services and products sold. This uneven pattern makes financial predictions for any given period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places challenges on our inventory management. Delays caused by factors beyond our control, such as the granting of permits for seismic surveys by third parties, the effect from disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico and the availability and equipping of marine vessels, can affect our Solutions segment’s revenues from its processing and GeoVentures services from period to period. Also, delays in ordering products or in shipping or delivering products in a given period could significantly affect our results of operations for that period. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause greater volatility in the market price of our common stock.The loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.We have traditionally relied on a relatively small number of significant customers. Consequently, our business is exposed to the risks related to customer concentration. No single customer represented 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues for 2012, 2011 and 2010; however, our top five customers in total represented approximately 28%, 30% and 28%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues during those years. The loss of any of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.During the last ten years, our traditional seismic contractor customers have been rapidly consolidating, thereby consolidating the demand for our services and products. In September 2012, CGGVeritas announced that it had agreed to acquire Fugro’s geoscience division; the transaction was closed in January 2013. This acquisition represents the further consolidation ongoing in this market, and could have the effect of reducing the number of our potential customers and vessel outfitting opportunities. The loss of any of our significant customers to further consolidation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our business depends on the level of exploration and production activities by the oil and natural gas industry. If oil and natural gas prices or the level of capital expenditures by E&P companies were to decline, demand for our services and products would decline and our results of operations would be adversely affected.Demand for our services and products depends upon the level of spending by E&P companies and seismic contractors for exploration and development activities, and those activities depend in large part on oil and gas prices. Spending by our customers on services and products that we provide is highly discretionary in nature, and subject to rapid and material change. Any significant decline in oil and gas related spending on behalf of our customers could cause alterations in our capital spending plans, project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions or delays in payment, or non-payment of amounts that are owed to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to continue to satisfy all of the covenants in our loan agreements. Additionally, increases in oil and gas prices may not increase demand for our services and products or otherwise have a positive effect on our financial condition or results of operations. E&P companies' willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon prevailing industry conditions that are influenced by numerous factors over which our management has no control, such as:23Table of Contents•the supply of and demand for oil and gas;•the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and gas;•the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and gas;•the expected rates of decline for current production;•the discovery rates of new oil and gas reserves;•weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and gas operations over a wide area, as well as less severe inclement weather that can preclude or delay seismic data acquisition;•domestic and worldwide economic conditions;•political instability in oil and gas producing countries;•technical advances affecting energy consumption;•government policies regarding the exploration, production and development of oil and gas reserves;•the ability of oil and gas producers to raise equity capital and debt financing; and•merger and divestiture activity among oil and gas companies and seismic contractors.Although we believe that the long-term trend is favorable, the level of oil and gas exploration and production activity has been volatile in recent years. Previously forecasted trends in oil and gas exploration and development activities may not continue and demand for our services and products may not reflect the level of activity in the industry. Any prolonged substantial reduction in oil and gas prices would likely affect oil and gas production levels and therefore adversely affect demand for the services we provide and products we sell.The drilling moratorium in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and the other regulatory initiatives undertaken in response to the Deepwater Horizon disaster and resulting oil spill in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, has adversely affected, and could adversely affect in the future, our customers and our business.In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico sank following a catastrophic explosion and fire, which resulted in the release of millions of barrels of crude oil. In response to this incident, the Minerals Management Service (now known as the BOEMRE) of the U.S. Department of the Interior issued a notice in May 2010 implementing a six-month moratorium on certain drilling activities in the U.S.Gulf of Mexico. The moratorium was lifted in October 2010, but the BOEMRE has issued and is expected to issue new safety and environmental guidelines or regulations for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and in other U.S. offshore locations. As a result of these changes, the permitting process for exploration and development activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico slowed considerably, reducing the level of E&P activity there. The reduced level of activity adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. Our Solutions segment was particularly impacted negatively during 2010 and 2011 by a reduction in data processing business from the Gulf of Mexico and new venture and multi-client seismic data library sales from our GulfSPAN seismic dataset. Future changes in laws or regulations regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities and decisions by customers, governmental agencies, or other industry participants in response to these changes, could reduce demand for our services and products, which could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We cannot reasonably or reliably estimate that such changes will occur, when they will occur, or whether they will impact us. Such changes can occur quickly within a region, similar to the Deepwater Horizon incident, which may impact both the affected region and global exploration and production, and we may not be able to respond quickly, or at all, to mitigate these changes In addition, these future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions that may adversely affect the financial health of our customers and decrease the demand for our services and products. See “– Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility” below.Our stock price has been volatile from time to time, declining precipitously from time to time during the period from 2008 through 2011, and it could decline again.The securities markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility in recent years. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to experience significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects or those of companies in our industry. In addition to the other risk factors discussed in this section, the price and volume volatility of our common stock may be affected by:24Table of Contents•operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;•factors influencing the levels of global oil and natural gas exploration and exploitation activities, such as depressed prices for natural gas in North America or disasters such as the Deepwater Horizon incident in the Gulf of Mexico in 2010;•the operating and securities price performance of companies that investors or analysts consider comparable to us;•announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors; and•changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of financial assets.To the extent that the price of our common stock remains at lower levels or it declines further, our ability to raise funds through the issuance of equity or otherwise use our common stock as consideration will be reduced. In addition, further increases in our leverage may make it more difficult for us to access additional capital. These factors may limit our ability to implement our operating and growth plans.If we, our option holders or stockholders holding registration rights sell additional shares of our common stock in the future, the market price of our common stock could decline. Additionally, our outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock are convertible into shares of our common stock. The conversion of the Series D Preferred Stock and exercise of our stock options could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Sales in the open market of the shares of common stock acquired upon such conversion or exercises may have the effect of reducing the then current market price for our common stock.The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market in the future, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 12, 2013, we had 156,390,699 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are available for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to volume and other limitations or delivery of a prospectus. At February 12, 2013, we had outstanding stock options to purchase up to 7,860,850 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $7.22 per share. We also had, as of that date, 1,026,449 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under outstanding restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards.During 2009 we issued in a privately-negotiated transaction 18.5 million shares of our common stock to certain institutional investors. In March 2010 we issued 23.8 million shares to BGP in a privately-negotiated transaction in connection with the formation of our INOVA Geophysical joint venture. These shares may be resold into the public markets in sale transactions pursuant to currently-effective registration statements filed with the SEC or pursuant to another exemption from registration. Sales in the public market of a large number of shares of common stock (or the perception that such sales could occur) could apply downward pressure on the prevailing market price of our common stock. As of February 12, 2013, there were 27,000 shares of our Seried D Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. In June 2012, the previous holder of these shares, Fletcher International, Ltd. (“Fletcher”), filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. All of the shares of Series D Preferred Stock, which had been pledged by Fletcher to secure certain indebtedness, were sold by the pledgee to an affiliate of D.E. Shaw & Co., Inc. in June 2012. The shares of our Series D Preferred Stock are currently convertible into 6,065,075 shares of our common stock. A conversion of our outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion would likely apply downward pressure on prevailing market prices of our common stock.The conversion price of our outstanding Series D Preferred Stock is also subject to certain customary anti-dilution adjustments. For additional information regarding the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock, see Note 12 “— Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We currently have ongoing litigation with Fletcher in Delaware regarding certain issues concerning our Series D Preferred Stock. For more information regarding our litigation with Fletcher, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”Shares of our common stock are also subject to certain demand and piggyback registration rights held by Laitram, L.L.C., and an affiliate of one of our directors. We also may enter into additional registration rights agreements in the future in connection with any subsequent acquisitions or securities transactions we may undertake. Any sales of our common stock under these registration rights arrangements with Laitram or other stockholders could be negatively perceived in the trading markets and negatively affect the price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public 25Table of Contentsmarket under these arrangements, or the expectation of such sales, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline.Goodwill and intangible assets that we have recorded in connection with our acquisitions are subject to impairment evaluations and, as a result, we could be required to write-off additional goodwill and intangible assets, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.In accordance with Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 350, “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other” (“ASC 350”), we are required to compare the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets (when certain impairment indicators under ASC 350 are present) to their carrying amount. If the fair value of such goodwill or intangible assets is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of these assets within the reporting units is less than their carrying value. In 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $252.2 million related to our goodwill and intangible assets and in 2009 we recorded an impairment charge of $38.0 million related to our intangible assets. Any further reduction in or impairment of the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets will result in additional charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position in future periods. At December 31, 2012, our goodwill and other intangible asset balances were $55.3 million and $14.8 million, respectively.Due to the international scope of our business activities, our results of operations may be significantly affected by currency fluctuations.We derive a significant portion of our consolidated net revenues from international sales, subjecting us to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. Through our subsidiaries, we operate in a wide variety of jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, China, Canada, the Netherlands, Brazil, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and other countries. Certain of these countries have experienced geopolitical instability, economic problems and other uncertainties from time to time. To the extent that world events or economic conditions negatively affect our future sales to customers in these and other regions of the world, or the collectability of receivables, our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition may be adversely affected. We currently require customers in certain higher risk countries to provide their own financing. We do not currently extend long-term credit through notes to companies in countries where we perceive excessive credit risk.A majority of our foreign net working capital is within the United Kingdom. Our subsidiaries in the U.K. and in other countries receive their income and pay their expenses primarily in their local currencies. To the extent that transactions of these subsidiaries are settled in their local currencies, a devaluation of those currencies versus the U.S. dollar could reduce the contribution from these subsidiaries to our consolidated results of operations as reported in U.S. dollars. For financial reporting purposes, such depreciation will negatively affect our reported results of operations since earnings denominated in foreign currencies would be converted to U.S. dollars at a decreased value. In addition, since we participate in competitive bids for sales of certain of our services and products that are denominated in U.S. dollars, a depreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies could harm our competitive position relative to other companies. While we have employed economic cash flow and fair value hedges to minimize the risks associated with these exchange rate fluctuations, the hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in the values of the currencies of countries in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our future results of operations.We rely on highly skilled personnel in our businesses, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively.Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our businesses. Competition for qualified personnel required for our data processing operations and our other segments’ businesses has intensified in recent years. Our growth has presented challenges to us to recruit, train, and retain our employees while managing the impact of potential wage inflation and the lack of available qualified labor in some markets where we operate. A well-trained, motivated and adequately-staffed work force has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees.Certain of our facilities could be damaged by hurricanes and other natural disasters, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Certain of our facilities are located in regions of the United States that are susceptible to damage from hurricanes and other weather events, and, during 2005, were impacted by hurricanes or other weather events. Our Systems segment leases 92,000 square feet of facilities located in Harahan, Louisiana, in the greater New Orleans metropolitan area. In late August 26Table of Contents2005, we suspended operations at these facilities and evacuated and locked down the facilities in preparation for Hurricane Katrina. These facilities did not experience flooding or significant damage during or after the hurricane. However, because of employee evacuations, power failures and lack of related support services, utilities and infrastructure in the New Orleans area, we were unable to resume full operations at the facilities until late September 2005. In September 2008, we lost power and related services for several days at our offices located in the Houston metropolitan area, which includes a substantial portion of our data processing infrastructure, and in Harahan, Louisiana as a result of Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav.Future hurricanes or similar natural disasters that impact our facilities may negatively affect our financial position and operating results for those periods. These negative effects may include reduced production, product sales and data processing revenues; costs associated with resuming production; reduced orders for our services and products from customers that were similarly affected by these events; lost market share; late deliveries; additional costs to purchase materials and supplies from outside suppliers; uninsured property losses; inadequate business interruption insurance and an inability to retain necessary staff. To the extent that climate change increases the severity of hurricanes and other weather events, as some have suggested, it could worsen the severity of these negative effects on our financial position and operating results.Our operations, and the operations of our customers, are subject to numerous government regulations, which could adversely limit our operating flexibility.In addition to the specific regulatory risks discussed elsewhere in this Item 1A. “Risk Factors” section, our operations are subject to other laws, regulations, government policies, and product certification requirements worldwide. Changes in such laws, regulations, policies or requirements could affect the demand for our products or result in the need to modify products, which may involve substantial costs or delays in sales and could have an adverse effect on our future operating results. Our export activities are also subject to extensive and evolving trade regulations. Certain countries are subject to restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes imposed by the United States government. These restrictions, sanctions, and embargoes also prohibit or limit us from participating in certain business activities in those countries. Our operations are subject to numerous local, state, and federal laws and regulations in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous materials, the remediation of contaminated properties, and the protection of the environment. These laws have been changed frequently in the past, and there can be no assurance that future changes will not have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our customers’ operations are also significantly impacted by laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment and endangered species. Consequently, changes in governmental regulations applicable to our customers may reduce demand for our services and products. To the extent that our customers’ operations are disrupted by future laws and regulations, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.Climate change regulations or legislation could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas our clients intend to produce.In response to concerns suggesting that emissions of and greenhouse gases (including carbon dioxide and methane) (“GHGs”) may be contributing to global climate change, legislative and regulatory measures to address the concerns are in various phases of discussion or implementation. We are aware of the increasing focus of local, state, national and international regulatory bodies on GHG emissions and climate change issues. The United States Congress may consider legislation to reduce GHG emissions. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether proposed legislation or regulations will be adopted, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions. Any additional costs or operating restrictions associated with legislation or regulations regarding GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. At least one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already taken legal measures intended to reduce GHG emissions, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or GHG cap and trade programs. More stringent regulations and laws relating to GHGs and climate change may be adopted in the future and could reduce the demand for our services and products. Reductions in our revenues or increases in our expenses as a result of climate control initiatives could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.Increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely impact our revenues by decreasing the demand for our data libraries and seismic acquisition services.Hydraulic fracturing is a process used by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells, particularly in low permeability formations such as shales. The process involves the injection of water, sand, other proppants and chemicals under pressure into the target reservoir to stimulate hydrocarbon production. Our business is highly dependent on the level of activity by our oil and gas exploration and production customers, and hydrocarbons cannot be economically produced from certain reservoirs without extensive hydraulic fracturing. 27Table of ContentsDue to public concerns about environmental impact that hydraulic fracturing may have, including potential impairment of groundwater quality, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal, state, and local levels have been initiated to impose more stringent permitting and compliance obligations on these operations. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority under the Safe Drinking Water Act over certain hydraulic fracturing activities. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. In addition, some states have implemented, and several states are considering implementing, new regulations pertaining to hydraulic fracturing, including the disclosure of chemicals used in fracturing operations. A number of state and local governments have also adopted or are considering adopting additional requirements relating to hydraulic fracturing. In certain areas of the country, new drilling permits for hydraulic fracturing have been put on hold pending the completion of studies and development of additional standards. Further governmental reviews are underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with final results expected to be released in late 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms. The adoption of legislation or regulations placing significant restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays and increased operating costs on our customers, making it more difficult and costly for them to complete natural gas and oil wells. In the event such requirements are enacted, demand for our shale data libraries and seismic data acquisition services and products may be adversely affected.We have outsourcing arrangements with third parties to manufacture some of our products. If these third party suppliers fail to deliver quality products or components at reasonable prices on a timely basis, we may alienate some of our customers and our revenues, profitability, and cash flow may decline. Additionally, current global economic conditions could have a negative impact on our suppliers, causing a disruption in our vendor supplies. A disruption in vendor supplies may adversely affect our results of operations.Our manufacturing processes require a high volume of quality components. We have increased our use of contract manufacturers as an alternative to our own manufacturing of products. We have outsourced the manufacturing of our towed marine streamers, our redeployable ocean bottom cables, MEMS components, and various components of VectorSeis Ocean. Certain components used by us are currently provided by only one supplier. If, in implementing any outsource initiative, we are unable to identify contract manufacturers willing to contract with us on competitive terms and to devote adequate resources to fulfill their obligations to us or if we do not properly manage these relationships, our existing customer relationships may suffer. In addition, by undertaking these activities, we run the risk that the reputation and competitiveness of our services and products may deteriorate as a result of the reduction of our control over quality and delivery schedules. We also may experience supply interruptions, cost escalations, and competitive disadvantages if our contract manufacturers fail to develop, implement, or maintain manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and customers.Reliance on certain suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several risks, including the possibility of a shortage or a lack of availability of key components, increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules. If any of these risks are realized, our revenues, profitability, and cash flows may decline. In addition, as we come to rely more heavily on contract manufacturers, we may have fewer personnel resources with expertise to manage problems that may arise from these third-party arrangements.Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively impacted by current global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies to us or a significant increase in the price of such supplies and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.Under some of our outsourcing arrangements, our manufacturing outsourcers purchase agreed-upon inventory levels to meet our forecasted demand. Our manufacturing plans and inventory levels are generally based on sales forecasts. If demand proves to be less than we originally forecasted and we cancel our committed purchase orders, our outsourcers generally will have the right to require us to purchase inventory which they had purchased on our behalf. Should we be required to purchase inventory under these terms, we may be required to hold inventory that we may never utilize.28Table of ContentsOur certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock and certain contractual obligations under our agreement with BGP contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us.Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Delaware law, the terms of our Series D Preferred Stock and our investor rights agreement with BGP may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for shares of our common stock. These provisions include:•authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders;•providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms;•requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders;•prohibiting stockholder action by written consent;•establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and•requiring an acquiring party to assume all of our obligations under our agreement regarding our Series D Preferred Stock and the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock set forth in our certificates of rights and designations for those series, including the dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting and share registration provisions.In addition, the terms of our INOVA Geophysical joint venture with BGP and BGP’s investment in our company contain a number of provisions, such as certain pre-emptive rights granted to BGP with respect to certain future issuances of our stock, that could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger or acquisition of our company that our stockholders may otherwise consider to be favorable.Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our stock price.If, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.Note: The foregoing factors pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 should not be construed as exhaustive. In addition to the foregoing, we wish to refer readers to other factors discussed elsewhere in this report as well as other filings and reports with the SEC for a further discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to any such forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect the events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.29Table of Contents