Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks. Set forth below are certain of the important risks that we face and that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business could also be affected by additional factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial to our business. If demand for our products slows, then our business may be materially affected. Demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors, including: • the number of miles vehicles are driven annually. Higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair. Mileage levels may be affected by gas prices and other factors. • the number of vehicles in current service that are seven years old and older. These vehicles are generally no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers’ warranties and tend to need more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles. • technological advances. Advances in automotive technology and parts design could result in cars needing maintenance less frequently and parts lasting longer. • the weather. Inclement weather may cause vehicle maintenance to be deferred. 10 Table of Contents • the economy. In periods of rapidly declining economic conditions, both retail DIY and commercial DIFM customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair. Additionally, such conditions may affect our customers’ credit availability. During periods of expansionary economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars instead of working on their own vehicles or they may purchase new vehicles. • rising energy prices. Increases in energy prices may cause our customers to defer purchases of certain of our products as they use a higher percentage of their income to pay for gasoline and other energy costs. For the long term, demand for our products may be affected by: • the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranties or maintenance offered on new vehicles; and • restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation. All of these factors could result in immediate and longer term declines in the demand for our products, which could adversely affect our sales, cash flows and overall financial condition. If we are unable to compete successfully against other businesses that sell the products that we sell, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive and is based on many factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. Competitors are opening locations near our existing stores. AutoZone competes as a provider in both the DIY and DIFM auto parts and accessories markets. Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, on-line parts stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, including the knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability; product warranty; store layout, location and convenience; price; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks; some competitors may gain competitive advantages, such as greater financial and marketing resources allowing them to sell automotive products at lower prices, larger stores with more merchandise, longer operating histories, more frequent customer visits and more effective advertising. If we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. We may not be able to sustain our recent rate of sales growth. We have increased our store count in the past five fiscal years, growing from 3,673 stores at August 27, 2005, to 4,627 stores at August 28, 2010, an average store count increase per year of 5%. Additionally, we have increased annual revenues in the past five fiscal years from $5.711 billion in fiscal 2005 to $7.363 billion in fiscal 2010, an average increase per year of 6%. Annual revenue growth is driven by the opening of new stores and increases in same-store sales. We open new stores only after evaluating customer buying trends and market demand/needs, all of which could be adversely affected by continued job losses, wage cuts, small business failures and microeconomic conditions unique to the automotive industry. Same store sales are impacted both by customer demand levels and by the prices we are able to charge for our products, which can also be negatively impacted by continued recessionary pressures. We cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to open stores at historical rates or achieve increases in same-store sales. 11 Table of Contents If we cannot profitably increase our market share in the commercial auto parts business, our sales growth may be limited. Although we are one of the largest sellers of auto parts in the commercial market, to increase commercial sales we must compete against national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, wholesalers and jobbers and auto dealers. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, merchandise quality, selection and availability, price, product warranty, distribution locations, and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks, some automotive aftermarket jobbers have been in business for substantially longer periods of time than we have, have developed long-term customer relationships and have large available inventories. If we are unable to profitably develop new commercial customers, our sales growth may be limited. Deterioration in the global credit markets, changes in our credit ratings and macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our short-term and long-term debt is rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These investment-grade credit ratings have historically allowed us to take advantage of lower interest rates and other favorable terms on our short-term credit lines, in our senior debt offerings and in the commercial paper markets. To maintain our investment-grade ratings, we are required to meet certain financial performance ratios. An increase in our debt and/or a decline in our earnings could result in downgrades in our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result in an increase in interest rates and more restrictive terms on certain of our senior debt and our commercial paper, could limit our access to public debt markets, could limit the institutions willing to provide credit facilities to us and could significantly increase the interest rates on such facilities from current levels. Moreover, significant deterioration in the financial condition of large financial institutions in calendar years 2008 and 2009 resulted in a severe loss of liquidity and availability of credit in global credit markets and in more stringent borrowing terms. During brief time intervals in the fourth quarter of calendar 2008 and the first quarter of calendar 2009, there was no liquidity in the commercial paper markets, resulting in an absence of commercial paper buyers and extraordinarily high interest rates on commercial paper. We can provide no assurance that credit market events such as those that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 will not occur again in the foreseeable future. Conditions and events in the global credit market could have a material adverse effect on our access to short-term debt and the terms and cost of that debt. Macroeconomic conditions also impact both our customers and our suppliers. Continued recessionary conditions could result in additional job losses and business failures, which could result in our loss of certain small business customers and curtailment of spending by our retail customers. In addition, continued distress in global credit markets, business failures and other recessionary conditions could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our suppliers to obtain necessary short and long-term financing to meet our inventory demands. Moreover, rising energy prices could impact our merchandise distribution, commercial delivery, utility and product costs. All of these macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our sales growth, margins and overhead, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations. Our business depends upon hiring and retaining qualified employees. We believe that much of our brand value lies in the quality of our over 63,000 AutoZoners employed in our stores, distribution centers, store support centers and ALLDATA. We cannot be assured that we can continue to hire and retain qualified employees at current wage rates. If we are unable to hire, properly train and/or retain qualified employees, we could experience higher employment costs, reduced sales, losses of customers and diminution of our brand, which could adversely affect our earnings. If we do not maintain competitive wages, our customer service could suffer due to a declining quality of our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates. Inability to acquire and provide quality merchandise could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. We are dependent upon our vendors continuing to supply us with quality merchandise. If our merchandise offerings do not meet our customers’ expectations regarding quality and safety, we could experience lost sales, experience increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. All of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety and quality standards. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose us to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety or quality of the products we sell could cause our customers to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. In those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our customers. Moreover, if any of our significant vendors experiences financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to deliver merchandise to us on a timely basis, or at all, we could have product shortages in our stores that could adversely affect customers’ perceptions of us and cause us to lose customers and sales. 12 Table of Contents Our largest stockholder, as a result of its voting ownership, may have the ability to exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders. As of October 18, 2010, ESL Investments, Inc. and certain of its affiliates (together, “ESL”) beneficially owned approximately 34.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, ESL may have the ability to exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders, including the election of directors and potential change of control transactions. In the future, ESL may acquire or sell shares of common stock and thereby increase or decrease its ownership stake in us. Significant fluctuations in their level of ownership could have an impact on our share price. In June 2008, we entered into an agreement with ESL (the “ESL Agreement”), in which ESL has agreed to vote shares of our common stock owned by ESL in excess of 37.5% in the same proportion as all non-ESL-owned shares are voted. Additionally, under the terms of the ESL Agreement, the Company added two directors in August 2008 that were identified by ESL. William C. Crowley, one of the two directors identified by ESL, is the President and Chief Operating Officer of ESL Investments, Inc. Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business. Recently some of our competitors have merged. Consolidation among our competitors could enhance their financial position, provide them with the ability to achieve better purchasing terms allowing them to provide more competitive prices to customers for whom we compete, and allow them to achieve efficiencies in their mergers that allow for more effective use of advertising and marketing dollars and allow them to more effectively compete for customers. These consolidated competitors could take sales volume away from us in certain markets and could cause us to change our pricing with a negative impact on our margins or could cause us to spend more money to maintain customers or seek new customers, all of which could negatively impact our business. Our ability to grow depends in part on new store openings, existing store remodels and expansions and effective utilization of our existing supply chain and hub network. Our continued growth and success will depend in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores to meet customers’ needs on a timely and profitable basis. Accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to partner with developers and landlords to obtain suitable sites for new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel, particularly at the store management level, and the integration of new stores into existing operations. There can be no assurance we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably. In addition, we extensively utilize hub stores, our supply chains and logistics management techniques to efficiently stock our stores. If we fail to effectively utilize our existing distribution hubs and/or supply chains, we could experience inappropriate inventory levels in our stores, which could adversely affect our sales volume and/or our margins. Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand name. Our ability to maintain our reputation is critical to our brand name. Our reputation could be jeopardized if we fail to maintain high standards for merchandise safety, quality and integrity. Any negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. 13 Table of Contents Business interruptions may negatively impact our store hours, operability of our computer and other systems, availability of merchandise and otherwise have a material negative effect on our sales and our business. War or acts of terrorism, political unrest, hurricanes, windstorms, fires, earthquakes and other natural or other disasters or the threat of any of them, may result in certain of our stores being closed for a period of time or permanently or have a negative impact on our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be negatively affected. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores resulting in lost sales, canceled purchase orders and/or a potential loss of customer loyalty. We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process transactions and summarize results. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could result in lost sales, inability to process purchase orders and/or a potential loss of customer loyalty, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Healthcare reform legislation could have a negative impact on our business. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Patient Act”) as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures may have an impact on our business. While we are currently evaluating the potential effects of the Patient Act on our business, the impact could be extensive and will most likely increase our employee healthcare-related costs. While the significant costs of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur after 2013 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a significant, negative impact on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 