1A Risk Factors for additional information regarding Government contracts. EMPLOYEES As of November 7, 2008, the Company employed approximately 2,200 persons. FINANCING On November 30, 2007, in conjunction with the acquisition of Doble, the Company entered into a $330 million five-year revolving credit facility with a $50 million increase option. This facility replaced the Company’s $100 million credit facility that would have otherwise matured in October 2009. The current facility is available for direct borrowings and/or the issuance of letters of credit, and is provided by a group of sixteen banks, led by National City Bank as agent, with a maturity of November 30, 2012. The facility is secured by the unlimited guaranty of the Company’s material domestic subsidiaries and a 65% pledge of the material foreign subsidiaries’ share equity. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Capital Resources and Liquidity” in the 2008 Annual Report, and Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2008 Annual Report, which information is herein incorporated by reference. HISTORY OF THE BUSINESS ESCO was incorporated in Missouri in August 1990 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Emerson Electric Co. (“Emerson”) to be the indirect holding company for several Emerson subsidiaries, which were primarily in the defense business. Ownership of ESCO and its subsidiaries was distributed on October 19, 1990 by Emerson to its shareholders through a special distribution. Since that time, through a series of acquisitions and divestitures, the Company has shifted its primary focus from defense contracting to the supply of engineered products marketed to industrial and commercial users. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the 2008 Annual Report, which Note is herein incorporated by reference. Effective July 10, 2000, ESCO changed its name from ESCO Electronics Corporation to ESCO Technologies Inc. The Filtertek businesses, which were divested in fiscal 2008, are discussed under “Discontinued Operations” in this Item 1. 7 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Company makes available free of charge through its Internet website, www.escotechnologies.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. Risk Factors This Form 10-K, including Item 1 “Business,” Item 2 “Properties”, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” and Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (incorporated by reference to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” appearing in the 2008 Annual Report), contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws. In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following are important risk factors which could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. NEGATIVE WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND RELATED CREDIT SHORTAGES COULD RESULT IN A DECREASE IN THE COMPANY’S SALES AND AN INCREASE IN ITS OPERATING COSTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. During October 2008, the U.S. and most of the major European governments took action to infuse capital into a number of significant global financial services companies. There can be no assurance, however, that these actions will stem the extreme levels of volatility in global and U.S. financial markets and the limited credit availability currently experienced. If there is a worsening of current global and U.S. economic and financial market conditions and additional tightening of global credit markets, many of the Company’s customers may delay or reduce their purchases of its products. The current financial crisis may cause the utility industry to experience shortages in available credit, which could limit capital spending. To the extent this problem affects customers of the Utility Solutions segment, the sales and profits of this segment could be adversely affected. Likewise, if the Company’s suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, they may have to increase their prices or become unable to continue to offer the products and services the Company uses to manufacture its products, which could have an adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. CONTINUED NEGATIVE WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT TRADING IN THE COMPANY’S STOCK. Uncertainty about current global and U.S. economic conditions could also increase the volatility and adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s stock. CREDIT SHORTAGES COULD AFFECT THE PRICING OF THE COMPANY’S CREDIT FACILITY INCREASE OPTION. Tightening of the global credit markets could cause an increase in the pricing or fees related to the Company’s overall credit facility if the Company exercises its $50 million increase option. MOST UTILITY SOLUTIONS SEGMENT SALES ARE TO OR FOR THE UTILITY INDUSTRY, KNOWN FOR LONG SALES CYCLES AND UNCERTAINTY, WHICH COULD AFFECT THE TIMING OF REVENUE. Most of the Utility Solutions segment’s sales are to or for the utility industry, where sales cycles are long and often unpredictable. Most Aclara sales involve large dollar amounts, and are marked by extended and complex competitive procurements. These factors often cause delays in the timing of sales, and such delays could result in order postponement, reduction in size or cancellation, thereby reducing or delaying the Company’s future revenue. 8 Table of Contents A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF THE UTILITY SOLUTIONS SEGMENT REVENUES IS GENERATED BY A LIMITED NUMBER OF LARGE CONTRACTS. A significant portion of the Utility Solutions segment’s business is dependent on several large contracts with customers. The largest of these is a contract to sell gas automatic meter reading systems to PG&E for its AMI project over an initial period of approximately five years, which started in November 2005. This contract, which represents a potential high source of revenue, is subject to cancellation or reduction in expected order quantities by PG&E, delays, regulatory actions and the Company’s ability to successfully perform the contract. There is no assurance that PG&E will purchase Aclara’s systems for all of its gas meters. The loss of revenue which would result from PG&E’s selection of other suppliers, cancellations, delays, reductions, regulatory actions or the Company’s failure to perform in connection with this contract could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition as a whole. FAILURE OR DELAY IN NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT COULD REDUCE THE COMPANY’S FUTURE SALES. Much of the Company’s business is dependent on the continuous development of new products and technologies to meet the changing needs of the Company’s markets on a cost-effective basis. Many of these markets are highly technical from an engineering standpoint, and the relevant technologies are subject to rapid change. If the Company fails to timely enhance existing products or develop new products, sales opportunities could be lost, which would adversely affect business. In addition, in some existing contracts with customers, the Company has made commitments to develop and deliver new products. If the Company fails to meet these commitments, the default could result in the imposition of contractual penalties including termination. The inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner could make the products less competitive, while the inability to successfully develop new products may limit growth opportunities. Delays in product development may also require greater investment in research and development. Increased costs associated with new product development and product enhancements could adversely affect operating results. The costs of new product development may not be recoverable if demand for the products is not as anticipated. A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF THE COMPANY’S CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE IS SUBJECT TO IMPAIRMENT RISK BASED ON THE ABILITY TO MARKET THE SOFTWARE. A significant portion of the Company’s capitalized software value is contingent on the future sales of TWACS NG software. Failure to generate sufficient sales to recoup costs could result in the impairment of the capitalized software costs. See Item 1, Business-Products-Utility Solutions for a discussion of the status of the Aclara PLS contract with PG&E. CERTAIN MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ARE DEPENDENT ON A SMALL NUMBER OF THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS. A significant part of the Utility Solutions segment’s manufacturing operations relies on a small number of third-party manufacturers to supply the segment’s products. For example, Aclara has arrangements with four manufacturers which produce and supply substantially all of Aclara’s end-products. Two of these suppliers produce these end-products in Mexico. A significant disruption (for example, a strike) in the supply of those products could negatively affect the timely delivery of Aclara’s products to customers and future sales. Also, most of Doble’s manufacturing operations rely on third-party manufacturers to supply its products. Disruption in the supply of critical components such as integrated circuit components could have an adverse impact on business by, among other things, increasing costs and reducing margins. Comtrak currently relies on a single source for a major portion of its products. Certain of the Company’s other businesses are dependent upon sole source or a limited number of third-party manufacturers of parts and components. Many of these suppliers are small businesses. Since alternative supply sources are limited, this increases the risk of adverse impacts on the Company’s production schedules and profits if the Company’s suppliers default in fulfilling their price, quality or delivery obligations. 9 Table of Contents PRODUCT DEFECTS COULD RESULT IN COSTLY FIXES, LITIGATION AND DAMAGES. If there are claims related to defective products (under warranty or otherwise), particularly in a product recall situation, the Company could be faced with significant expenses in replacing or repairing the product. For example, the Aclara meter modules are installed in thousands of residences and other buildings. The replacement/repair costs for such problems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. In addition, if a dispute over product claims cannot be settled, arbitration or litigation may result, involving attorneys’ fees and the potential of damage awards. INCREASES IN RAW MATERIAL PRICES AND DECREASED AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS. The cost of raw materials is a major element of the total cost of many of the Company’s products. For example, the Test segment’s critical components rely on purchases of raw materials from third parties. Increases in the prices of raw materials (such as steel, copper, nickel, zinc, wood and petrochemical products) could have an adverse impact on business by, among other things, increasing costs and reducing margins. In addition, the Company’s reliance on sole or limited sources of supply of raw materials in each of its segments could adversely affect the business. Weather-created disruptions in supply, in addition to affecting costs, could impact the Company’s ability to procure an adequate supply of these raw materials and delay or prevent deliveries of products to customers. CHANGES IN TEST STANDARDS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT TEST SEGMENT SALES. A significant portion of the Test segment’s business involves sales to technology customers, which results from these customers needing to meet specific international and domestic test standards. If demand for product testing from these customers decreases, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. Likewise, if regulatory agencies eliminate or reduce certain domestic or international test standards, the Company’s sales could be adversely affected. For example, if it were determined that there is no need to include Wi-Fi technology in mobile phones, there may be no need for certain testing on mobile phones. Also, if a regulatory authority relaxes the test standards for certain electronic devices because they do not interfere with the broadcast spectrum, sales of certain Test products could be reduced. ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER RISKS OF THE COMPANY’S INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT BUSINESS. In fiscal 2008, approximately 21% of the Company’s sales were made to international customers. An economic downturn or an adverse change in the political situation in certain foreign countries in which the Company does business could cause a decline in revenues and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. For example, the Test segment does significant business in Asia. Changes in the Asian political climate or political changes in specific Asian countries could negatively affect the Company’s business. Weakness in the European economy could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s European revenues. The Company’s international sales are also subject to other risks inherent in foreign commerce, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, the risk of war and terrorism, differences in foreign laws, uncertainties as to enforcement of contract rights, and difficulties in negotiating and resolving disputes with foreign customers. SALES OF GOVERNMENT PRODUCTS DEPEND UPON CONTINUED GOVERNMENT FUNDING. During the past three years, from 6% to 8% of the Company’s revenues has been generated from sales to the U.S. Government or its contractors. These sales are dependent on continuous government funding of its programs. There could be reductions or terminations of the government funding on programs which are applicable to the Company or its customers. These funding effects could severely affect the Company’s sales and profit, and could bring about a major restructuring of Company operations, which could result in an adverse effect on its financial results. For example, a significant part of VACCO’s sales involve major government defense and space programs. Government reduction in spending on these programs could have a significant adverse impact on 10 Table of Contents Company financial results. THE END OF CUSTOMER PRODUCT LIFE CYCLES COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT FILTRATION SEGMENT RESULTS. Many of the Company’s filtration products are sold to be components in the customers’ end-products. If a customer discontinues a certain end-product line, the ability of the Company to continue to sell those components will be reduced or eliminated. The result could be a significant decrease in Company sales and revenue. For example, a substantial portion of PTI’s revenue is generated from commercial aviation aftermarket sales. As certain aircraft are retired and replaced by newer aircraft, there could be a corresponding decrease in sales and revenue associated with the Company’s current products. Such a decrease could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. In addition, if the Government cuts back the space program, VACCO’s sales of space products would be reduced, and its revenues could be adversely affected. ACQUISITIONS OF OTHER COMPANIES CARRY RISK. During fiscal 2008, the Company acquired Doble and LDIC. Acquisitions of other companies involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the potential exposure to unanticipated and undisclosed liabilities, the potential that expected benefits or synergies are not realized and that operating costs increase, the potential loss of key personnel, suppliers or customers of acquired businesses and the diversion of management’s time and attention from other business concerns. Although management will attempt to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, no assurances can be made that the Company will properly ascertain all such risks. DESPITE ITS EFFORTS, THE COMPANY MAY BE UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. Despite the Company’s efforts to protect its intellectual property, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use the Company’s products and technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect the Company’s proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Current and future actions to enforce the Company’s proprietary rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. No assurances can be made that any such actions will be successful. In addition, the Company may not elect to pursue an unauthorized user due to the high costs and uncertainties associated with litigation. The Company may also face exposure to claims by others challenging its intellectual property rights. DISPUTES WITH CONTRACTORS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TEST SEGMENT’S COSTS. A major portion of the Test segment’s business involves working in conjunction with general contractors to produce the end-products, such as electronic test chambers, secure communication rooms, MRI facilities, etc. If there are performance problems caused by either the Company or a contractor, these often result in cost overruns and may lead to a dispute as to which party is responsible. The resolution of such disputes can result in arbitration or litigation, and could involve significant expense including attorneys’ fees. In addition, these disputes may result in reduction in revenue or even a loss to the Company on a particular project. THE LOSS OF SPECIALIZED KEY EMPLOYEES COULD AFFECT PERFORMANCE AND REVENUES. There is a risk of the Company’s losing key employees having engineering and technical expertise to other employers. For example, Doble relies heavily on engineers with significant experience and reputation in the utility industry to furnish expert consulting services and support to customers. Loss of these employees to employers offering greater benefit packages could reduce Doble’s ability to provide services and affect revenues negatively. 11 Table of Contents CHANGES IN ENVIRONMENTAL OR REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS COULD INCREASE EXPENSES AND ADVERSELY AFFECT PROFITABILITY. The Company’s operations and properties are subject to U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, emission, discharge, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and the clean up of contaminated properties. Changes in such requirements could increase the cost of compliance. Failure to comply could result in the imposition of significant fines, suspension of production, alteration of product processes, cessation of operations or other actions, which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. COMPETITION IS BROADLY BASED AND GLOBAL IN SCOPE. The Company faces competition from a large number of manufacturers and distributors for nearly all of its products. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger, more diversified corporations with greater financial, marketing, production and research and development resources. If the Company cannot compete successfully against current or future competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Statements contained in this Form 10-K regarding future events and the Company’s future results that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the Company’s performance and the industries in which the Company operates, adequacy of the Company’s credit facilities and future cash flows, estimates of anticipated contract costs and revenues, the timing, amount and success of claims for research credits, the anticipated value of the PG&E contracts, the outcome of current litigation, claims and charges, the anticipated timing and amount of lost deferred tax assets, continued reinvestment of foreign earnings, the impact of SFAS 161 and SFAS 157, the timing, total value and period of performance of contracts awarded to the Company, the accuracy of the Company’s estimates utilized in software revenue recognition, the accuracy of the Company’s estimates utilized to project costs at completion in the Test segment and Filtration segment, income tax liabilities, the effective tax rate, the timing and results of the IRS audit of the Company’s Federal income tax returns for the periods ended September 30, 2003 through September 30, 2006, repayment of debt within the next twelve months, the recognition of costs related to share-based compensation arrangements, future costs relating to environmental matters, share repurchases, investments, sustained performance improvement, performance improvement initiatives, growth opportunities, new product development, the Company’s ability to increase shareholder value, acquisitions, and the beliefs and assumptions of Management contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” in the 2008 Annual Report, and other statements contained herein which are not strictly historical are considered “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Federal securities laws. Words such as expects, anticipates, targets, goals, projects, intends, plans, believes, estimates, variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned that such statements are only predictions, speak only as of the date of this report, and the Company undertakes no duty to update. The Company’s actual results in the future may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to risks and uncertainties that exist in the Company’s operations and business environment including, but not limited to, those described in this “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and the following: actions by the California Public Utility Commission; PG&E’s Board of Directors or PG&E’s management impacting PG&E’s AMI projects; the timing and content of purchase order releases under the PG&E contracts; and Aclara RF’s successful performance of its PG&E contract; termination for convenience of customer contracts; timing and magnitude of future contract awards; weakening of economic conditions in served markets; the success of the Company’s competitors; changes in customer demands or customer insolvencies; competition; intellectual property rights; technical difficulties; the availability of selected acquisitions; delivery delays or defaults by customers; performance issues with key customers, suppliers and subcontractors; material changes in the costs of certain raw materials; labor disputes; changes in laws and regulations including, but not limited to, changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements; costs relating to environmental matters; litigation uncertainty; and the Company’s successful execution of internal operating plans. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 12 Table of Contents 