Risk Factors We may not be able to increase sales by the same historic growth rates. We have increased our store count in the past five fiscal years, growing from 2,928 stores at August 26, 2000, to 3,673 stores at August 27, 2005, an average store count increase per year of 5%. Additionally, we have increased annual revenues in the past five fiscal years from $4.5 billion in fiscal 2000 to $5.7 billion in fiscal 2005, an average increase per year of 5%. Annual revenue growth is driven by the opening of new stores and same-store sales. Same store sales were negative in fiscal 2005. We cannot provide any assurance that we can continue to open stores or increase same-store sales. Our business depends upon qualified employees. At the end of fiscal 2005, our consolidated employee count was approximately 52,000. We can not assure that we can continue to hire and retain qualified employees at current wage rates. If we do not maintain competitive wages, our customer service could suffer by reason of a declining quality of our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates. 11 If demand for our products slows, then our business may be materially affected. Demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors. In the short term, it may depend upon: • the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair. Mileage levels may be affected by gas prices and other factors. • the number of vehicles in current service that are seven years old and older, as these vehicles are no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers’ warranty and will need more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles. • the weather, as vehicle maintenance may be deferred in periods of inclement weather. • the economy. In periods of rapidly declining economic conditions, both retail DIY and commercial DIFM customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair. During periods of expansionary economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars instead of working on their own vehicles or they may purchase new vehicles. For the long term, demand for our products may depend upon: • the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance offered on new vehicles. • restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation. If we are unable to compete successfully against other businesses that sell the products that we sell, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive based on many factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. Competitors are rapidly opening locations near our existing stores. AutoZone competes as a supplier in both the DIY and DIFM auto parts and accessories markets. Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, including the knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners, merchandise quality, selection and availability, product warranty, store layout, location and convenience, price, and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks; some competitors may have competitive advantages, such as greater financial and marketing resources, larger stores with more merchandise, longer operating histories, more frequent customer visits and more effective advertising. If we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. If we cannot profitably increase share in the commercial auto parts business, our sales growth may be limited. Although we are one of the largest sellers of auto parts in the commercial market, to increase commercial sales we must compete against automotive aftermarket jobbers, in addition to other auto parts retailers that have entered the commercial business. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, merchandise quality, selection and availability, price, product warranty and distribution locations, and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks, some automotive aftermarket jobbers have been in business for substantially longer periods of time than we have, have developed long-term customer relationships and have larger available inventories. We can make no assurances that we can profitably develop new commercial customers or make available inventories required by commercial customers. 12 If our vendors continue to consolidate, we may pay higher prices for our merchandise. In recent years, several of our vendors have merged and others have announced plans to merge. Further vendor consolidation could limit the number of vendors from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these products. Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business. In recent years, several large auto parts chains have merged. We do not know the impact these mergers will have upon competition in the retail automotive aftermarket. If our competitors are able to achieve efficiencies in their mergers, then there may be greater competitive pressures in the markets in which they are stronger. War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact availability of merchandise and adversely impact our sales. War, or acts of terrorism or the threat of either, may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be negatively affected. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores. Rising fuel prices may negatively impact our profitability. As mentioned above, rising fuel prices may demand for the products that we sell, overall transaction count and our profitability. Fuel prices impact our merchandise distribution, commercial delivery, utility, and product costs. Item 