ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward Looking Statements The statements contained in this Report that are not purely historical are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. These statements relate to the Company’s expectations, hopes, beliefs, anticipations, commitments, intentions and strategies regarding the future. They may be identified by the use of words or phrases such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “should,” “plans,” “estimates,” and “potential,” among others. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements contained in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Company’s financial performance, revenue and expense levels in the future and the sufficiency of its existing assets to fund future operations and capital spending needs. Actual results could differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in such forward-looking statements. The Company believes that many of the risks set forth here and in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (the “SEC”), are part of doing business in the industry in which the Company operates and competes and will likely be present in all periods reported. The forward-looking statements contained in this Report are made as of the date of this Report, and the Company expressly disclaims any intention or obligation to update them or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Among others, risks and uncertainties that may affect the business, financial condition, performance, development, and results of operations of the Company include: There is a limited public market for our common stock, which may adversely affect the price and trading volume of our common stock. We received notice on April 12, 2007 that we did not meet the requirements of the Nasdaq stock market and were subsequently delisted by that market. Trading in our stock is presently conducted on the Over The Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB). The Company has no plans to re-list its stock on the Nasdaq stock market in the near future. 4 Table of Contents The Company’s certifying officers are not able to represent that the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting are functioning adequately to prevent material misrepresentation of the Company’s results of operations. Extensive effort has been made to insure that the Company’s results of operations and financial position are fairly presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. However, the relocation of the corporate office from California to Florida resulted in a change in accounting department personnel at or subsequent to the end of the fiscal year. Also, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer were appointed at or subsequent to the fiscal year end, and have relatively short tenure in their respective positions and therefore have only limited experience with the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. Further, we remain heavily dependent on legacy information technology systems that lack adequate documentation and require substantial manual supplementary efforts in support of some of our revenue recognition processes. These factors, singly and in combination, result in risk that the Company’s financial results could be materially incorrect. Our stock price may be volatile and you could lose all or part of your investment. We expect that the market price of our common stock will be volatile. Stock prices have risen and fallen in response to a variety of factors, including quarterly variations in operating results and market conditions in the economy as a whole. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet investors’ or securities analysts’ expectations. Any failure to meet these expectations, even slightly, may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We have a history of losses and accumulated deficit and this trend of losses may continue in the future. For 2007, we had a net loss of $5.2 million, including $0.8 million in income from discontinued operations. For 2006, we had net income of $4.4 million, including $19.3 million in income from discontinued operations In 2005, we operating had net losses of $17.8 million, respectively. As of December 29, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $176.6 million, and we had a capital deficiency of $1.0 million. We currently intend to continue to operate our Centers business. We have not been able to operate profitably in the past and we cannot guarantee that our business will be profitable on a sustained basis. We may not be able to renew the leases on our various Centers on terms that are favorable or agreeable to the Company, which could have an adverse impact on our business. All of our Centers operate their facilities under operating leases that expire at various dates through July 2015. As these leases expire, we may not be able to renew them at acceptable rates or at all. In addition, we may consider closing some of our non performing Centers. Our ability to vacate these premises including related lease obligations without ongoing costs is uncertain. We are currently operating one Center on a month-to-month rental basis because that Center’s lease has expired. Higher lease rates will negatively affect our results of operations. If, in any case, we are required to relocate to a different facility, we will be subject to additional costs for new leasehold improvements and we may incur higher lease costs and /or loss of business, negatively impacting our results of operations. 5 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks from economic conditions including inflation. Most of our products are purchased in finished form and packaged by the supplier or at our headquarters. We anticipate usual inflationary increases in the price of our products and do not intend to pass these increases along to our customers. In general, we do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our results of operations in recent years. However, there can be no assurance that our business will not be affected by inflation in the future. Additionally, demand for consumer spending which, in turn, drives our services and products is affected by general economic conditions. We have observed some variability in demand as a result of changing economic conditions, which we believe may relate to fluctuations in the level of consumer discretionary spending. We believe that our performance will continue to be affected by such economic parameters. Our business tends to follow seasonal trends, and our performance may suffer in off-seasons. We believe that our business follows seasonal trends due to increased consumer demand during certain seasons and around public and national holidays. As a result, our sales performance could potentially be affected. Our success will depend on acceptance of our new LATW process and offering of cosmetic dental services. We derive most of our revenues from our LATW procedures, one of many teeth-whitening solutions offered to consumers. We also market BriteSmile-branded toothpaste, mouthwash, the BriteSmile-to-Go pen, and post-whitening procedure touchups through our Centers, the QVC television network and on our website. We have recently determined to adopt a new protocol for teeth whitening services, which does not require the services of a licensed dentist, dental assistances or dental hygienists. Further, the new protocol employs a new formulation for the whitening gel and a new whitening lamp. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to successfully encourage consumers to switch from traditional and less expensive bleaching tray whitening methods and our legacy LATW system to a new self-administered protocol, and on our ability to successfully market our line of whitening and post-whitening maintenance products. There can be no assurance that consumers will accept our new procedure or products. Typically, medical and dental insurance policies do not cover teeth whitening procedures, including the Company’s new LATW procedure, or whitening maintenance products, which may have an adverse impact upon the market acceptance of our products and services. The market for our new whitening procedure is largely unproven and may never develop sufficiently to allow us to effectively compete with other teeth whitening products and services. The market for teeth whitening products and services is rapidly evolving. Additionally, our self-administered teeth whitening protocol is new and, in many respects, represent a significant departure from procedures and processes which already have found a degree of acceptance in the teeth whitening marketplace. Our financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to efficiently implement the new self-administered teeth whitening protocol and to effectively market that procedure to consumers. If the potential users of teeth whitening services in general and our self-administered procedure and related products in particular do not perceive appropriate benefits, our business could be harmed or even fail. Our success will depend on our ability to update our technology to remain competitive. The dental device and supply industry is subject to technological change. As technological changes occur in the marketplace, we may have to modify our products in order to become or remain competitive or to ensure that our products do not become obsolete. We sold virtually our entire technology portfolio to Discus and although we have a license to use the existing technology in the Centers, we cannot give assurances that we will be able to either acquire or develop newer technology in the future. If we fail to anticipate or 6 Table of Contents respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to government requirements, market trends or customer demands, or if there are any significant delays in product development or introduction, our revenues and profit margins may decline, which could adversely affect our cash flows, liquidity and operating results. Our future growth will depend in part on adding new services to our Centers and expanding the outlet of our products to other retail channels. One of the drivers for future growth will be our ability to increase the amount of sales each Center produces. We have begun the process of offering additional services, including the performance of cosmetic dentistry procedures at our Centers. We cannot give assurance that this will be successful. We also sell our products through other retail channels including QVC. We are investigating the expansion of existing channels as well as other avenues for distributing our products. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful at expanding our channels of distribution or the products we distribute We may have problems financing our future growth. Our growth strategy includes investment in and expansion of Centers throughout the United States and internationally, increasing awareness of the BriteSmile brand, and developing and marketing our brand name and retail products. To finance our prior growth we have sold debt and equity securities. Additional funds may be needed in the future for continued expansion. We cannot give assurance that additional financing will be available or that, if available, it will be on terms favorable to our stockholders or us. If needed funds are not available, we may be required to close existing Centers, and/or limit or forego the establishment of new Centers and the development of new products, or limit the scope of our current operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be required to take other actions that may lessen the value of our common stock, including borrowing money on terms that are not favorable to us. Raising the needed funds through the sale of additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock may result in dilution to current stockholders. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforward may be limited or eliminated in its entirety. We have a substantial net operating loss carryforward that we plan to use to offset future federal tax liability. As of December 30, 2007, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $133 million that we anticipate may be used in the future to reduce our federal tax liability. We established a full valuation allowance against the net operating loss carryforward, along with all other deferred tax assets, to reflect the uncertainty of the recoverability of this asset. The utilization of this asset in the future is dependent upon our having positive earnings. Furthermore, the likelihood of an annual limitation on our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforward to offset future U.S. federal taxable income is increased by (i) the issuance of certain convertible preferred stock, options, warrants, or other securities exercisable for common stock, (ii) changes in our equity ownership occurring in the last three years and (iii) potential future changes in our equity ownership. The amount of an annual limitation can vary significantly based on factors existing at the date of an ownership change. If such limitations were imposed, they could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to competition from other companies that offer similar products and services. The market for teeth whitening products and services is highly competitive. Competition in the market for teeth whitening products and services may intensify in the future. Numerous well-established companies and smaller entrepreneurial companies are focusing significant resources on developing and marketing products and services that will compete with our products and services. As a result of our sale to Discuss, BriteSmile products are now offered by independent dental offices. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources. Teeth whitening products and services offered by our competitors include traditional and often less expensive bleaching tray methods and other forms of heat or light activated curing methods. We may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors in developing, marketing and distributing our services and products, which could result in the loss of customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitive pressures may also force prices for teeth whitening services down and such price reductions may adversely affect our potential future revenue and profitability. 7 Table of Contents We may experience shortages of the supplies we need because we do not have long-term agreements with certain suppliers and rely on sole sources for key equipment. Successful operation of our Centers business depends to a degree on our ability to provide our Centers a sufficient supply of teeth whitening gels and maintenance products. Since our BS2000 LATW system was first used commercially, we have relied upon manufacturing and supply agreements with multiple suppliers, but only one manufacturer of our LATW devices. Effective April 2001, the Company’s LATW devices are manufactured by Delphi Medical Systems Corporation, Longmont, Colorado, pursuant to an agreement between the Company and Delphi. We have recently contracted with Docland to provide LATW devices for use in our Centers; however, Docland has not yet delivered LATW devices and we do not know whether the devices, when delivered, will meet our specifications We have no long-term purchase contracts or other contractual assurance of continued supply, pricing or access to new products. While we believe that we have good relationships with our suppliers and our manufacturer, if we are unable to extend or secure manufacturing services or to obtain component parts or finished products from one or more key vendors on a timely basis and on acceptable commercial terms, our results of operations could be seriously harmed. We operate our Centers using intellectual property under a license granted to us by Discus Dental, and we cannot guarantee that competitors will not infringe the underlying patents or that certain patents that we have applied for will be granted. In connection with the sale of our Associated Centers business to Discus, we sold all of our intellectual property to Discus, but we retained a license from Discus permitting us to utilize the intellectual property to operate our Centers business and manufacture and sell our retail products. We sold Discus an expansive portfolio of patents to protect the intellectual property rights licensed to us, including a patent covering a method of whitening teeth by exposing teeth treated with a transparent composition to light and a patent covering the light source. There can be no assurance that Discus will prosecute patent applications that are valuable to our business or pursue infringement claims against third parties who may infringe the intellectual property rights we sold to Discus. Failure by Discus to protect these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our business. The rights relied upon to protect the intellectual property licensed to us by Discus underlying our products and services may not be adequate, which could enable third parties to use the technology used by us and would reduce our ability to compete in the market. The rights licensed to us by Discus rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Nevertheless, these measures may not be adequate to safeguard the technology underlying our products and services. If these measures do not protect these rights, third parties could use the same technology we use, and our ability to compete in the market would be reduced. In addition, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products and services may breach their agreements with us or Discus regarding intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We or Discus also may not be able to effectively protect these intellectual property rights in some foreign countries. We also realize that our and Discus’ trade secrets may become known through other means not currently foreseen by us. Notwithstanding our and Discus’ efforts to protect this intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to the technology and products used by us without infringing on any of the intellectual property rights or designs we use. 8 Table of Contents Our products or services could infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which may cause us to engage in costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could also cause us to pay substantial damages and prohibit us from selling our products or services. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against us. In the event of such a suit, and further assuming a resolution to such a suit that is unfavorable to us, we may have to pay substantial damages for past infringement if it is ultimately determined that our products or services infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. Further, we may be prohibited from selling our products before we obtain a license, which, if available at all, may require us to pay substantial royalties. Even if these claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we are not aware of any infringement claims asserted against us by others. We may become subject to government regulation regarding our teeth whitening services and products. The light used in the LATW systems is categorized as a Class I Medical Device as defined by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). As long as the light is used specifically to perform cosmetic dental procedures (teeth whitening), it is not subject to the FDA’s pre-market notification requirements, although we are subject to FDA requirements regarding handling of complaints and other general FDA record keeping standards. There can be no assurance that some or all of the existing FDA regulations will not change significantly or adversely in the future, or that we will not become subject to compliance with additional and stricter FDA regulations which could, in the future, affect our revenue. We believe that there are no government regulations which require that a licensed dentist, dental assistant or dental hygienist perform or assist with our new self-administered teeth whitening procedure in any of the states where we operate Centers. However, there can be no assurance that one or more states where we operate Centers will no adopt regulations which materially and adversely affect the manner in which we intend to perform the self-administered teeth whitening procedure which could, in the future, affect our revenue. Ownership of our common stock is concentrated in a limited number of shareholders. Current and former directors and executive officers of the Company, or their affiliates, control more than a majority of the outstanding common stock of the Company and, therefore, have ultimate authority to make all major decisions affecting our business, including the identity and make-up of the Company’s board of directors and any other matters requiring approval of the shareholders of the Company. Our efforts to build strong brand identity and customer loyalty may not be successful. We believe that establishing and maintaining brand identity and brand loyalty is critical to attracting customers and strategic partners. In order to attract and retain these groups and respond to competitive pressures, we intend to continue advertising spending to create and maintain brand loyalty. We believe that advertising rates, and the cost of advertising campaigns in particular, could increase in the future. If our branding efforts are not successful, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Promotion and enhancement of the Company’s brand will also depend on our success in consistently providing a high-quality customer experience for our teeth whitening services and satisfaction with our products. If customers do not perceive our service and product offerings to be of high quality, or if we introduce new services and products, such as cosmetic dental procedures and our new, self-administered teeth whitening procedure, that are not favorably received, the value of the Company’s brand could be harmed. Any brand impairment or dilution could decrease the attractiveness of the Company, which could harm our reputation, reduce our net revenue and cause us to lose customers. 9 Table of Contents Failures in our information technology systems or the systems of third parties could adversely affect our business and result in a loss of customers. Our web site and our Internet-based systems may experience slow response times, decreased capacity to accommodate a large number of customers or a temporary disruption in service for a variety of reasons. Additionally, power outages and delays in such service may interrupt or prevent us from immediately coordinating with the schedules of Centers, and may interrupt or prevent customers from arranging for our services or from ordering our products through our e-Commerce Internet site. Any of these potential problems could have an adverse effect on business. Computer hardware and software components to our systems are located at a third party co-location. In addition, a back-up file server and tape back-ups of databases reside both at our headquarters and off-site. Delays in scheduling teeth whitening procedures would result if we were required to use our backup computer hardware and software systems. Nevertheless, natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods, fires, power outages, telecommunications failures, physical or electronic break-ins or vandalism, viruses and other similar events could damage our hardware and software systems, lead to a loss of data, cause substantial disruption in our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are susceptible to product liability suits and if a lawsuit is brought against us it could result in us having to pay large legal expenses and judgments. Because of the nature of the dental device industry, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to claims against us related to our products or services. Our products come into contact with vulnerable areas of the human body, such as the mouth, tongue, teeth and gums, and, therefore, the sale and support of dental products makes us susceptible to the risk of such claims. A successful product liability claim arising as a result of use of our products or services, or the negative publicity brought up by such claim, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain product liability insurance with coverage limits of at least $5 million per occurrence and $5 million per year. While we believe that we maintain adequate insurance coverage that is reasonable and customary for our business, there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance will be adequate to satisfy claims made against us in the future, or that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 