 Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents that the Corporation files with the SEC are risks that should be considered in evaluating the Corporation’s common stock, as well as risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual future results of the Company to differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements contained in this Report and in other public statements the Company makes. Additionally, because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other variables affecting the Company’s operating results, the Company’s past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance. If we cannot anticipate trends and develop new products or adapt to new technologies responding to changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect our revenues or profitability. The Company operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, including, in particular, changes in customer preferences and changes and advances in relevant technologies. There are substantial uncertainties associated with the Company’s efforts to develop successful trade publishing, educational, and media products and services, including digital products and services, for its customers, as well as to adapt its print and other materials to new digital technologies, including the internet, ebook readers, tablets and other devices and school-based technologies. The Company makes significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable, or whose profitability may be significantly lower than the Company anticipates or has experienced historically. In particular, in the context of the Company’s current focus on key digital opportunities, including ebooks for children and schools, the markets are continuing to develop and the Company may be unsuccessful in establishing itself as a significant factor in any market which does develop. Many aspects of an ebook market which could develop for children and schools, such as the nature of the relevant software and hardware, the size of the market, relevant methods of delivery and relevant content, as well as pricing models, are still evolving and will, most likely, be subject to change on a recurrent basis until a pattern develops and becomes more defined. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in implementing its ebook strategy, including the continuing development of its ereading applications for consumer and classroom markets, which could adversely affect the Company’s revenues and growth opportunities. In this connection, the Company previously determined to cease its support for its ereading applications offered to consumers through its school and ecommerce channels in favor of concentrating its efforts towards the introduction of a universal cross-platform streaming application, to be made available initially to the classroom market. There can be no assurance that the Company will ultimately be successful in its redirected strategy of introducing a streaming model directed to the classroom market or the subsequent development of a broader streaming model. In addition, the Company faces market risks associated with systems development and service delivery in its evolving school ordering and ecommerce businesses. Our financial results would suffer if we fail to successfully differentiate our offerings and meet market needs in school-based book clubs and book fairs, two of our core businesses. The Company’s school-based book clubs and book fairs are core businesses, which produce a substantial part of the Company’s revenues. The Company is subject to the risk that it will not successfully continue to develop and execute new promotional strategies for its school-based book clubs or book fairs in response to future customer trends, including any trends relating to a demand for ebooks on the part of customers, or technological changes or that it will not otherwise meet market needs in these businesses in a timely or cost-effective fashion and successfully maintain teacher or school sponsorship and ordering levels, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. The Company differentiates itself from competitors by providing curated offerings in its school-based book clubs and book fairs designed to make reading attractive for children, in furtherance of its mission as a champion of literacy. Competition from mass market and on-line distributors could reduce this differentiation, posing a risk to the Company's results. If we fail to maintain the continuance of strong relationships with our authors, illustrators and other creative talent, as well as to develop relationships with new creative talent, our business could be adversely affected. The Company’s business, in particular the trade publishing and media portions of the business, is highly dependent on maintaining strong relationships with the authors, illustrators and other creative talent who produce the products and services that are sold to its customers. Any overall weakening of these relationships, or the failure to develop successful new relationships, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial performance.- 8-If we fail to adapt to new purchasing patterns or trends, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The Company’s business is affected significantly by changes in customer purchasing patterns or trends in, as well as the underlying strength of, the trade, educational and media markets for children. In particular, the Company’s educational publishing business may be adversely affected by budgetary restraints and other changes in educational funding as a result of new legislation or regulatory actions, both at the federal and state level, as well as changes in the procurement process, to which the Company may be unable to adapt successfully. In addition, there are many competing demands for educational funds, and there can be no guarantee that the Company will otherwise be successful in continuing to obtain sales of its educational materials and programs from any available funding. The competitive pressures we face in our businesses could adversely affect our financial performance and growth prospects. The Company is subject to significant competition, including from other trade and educational publishers and media, entertainment and internet companies, as well as retail and internet distributors, many of which are substantially larger than the Company and have much greater resources. To the extent the Company cannot meet these challenges from existing or new competitors, including in the educational publishing business, and develop new product offerings to meet customer preferences or needs, the Company’s revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.Additionally, demand for many of the Company’s product offerings, particularly books sold through school channels, is subject to price sensitivity. Failure to maintain a competitive pricing model could reduce revenues and profitability. Our reputation is one of our most important assets, and any adverse publicity or adverse events, such as a significant data privacy breach or violation of privacy laws or regulations, could cause significant reputational damage and financial loss. The businesses of the Company focus on children’s reading, learning and education, and its key relationships are with educators, teachers, parents and children. In particular, the Company believes that, in selecting its products, teachers, educators and parents rely on the Company’s reputation for quality books and educational materials and programs appropriate for children. Negative publicity, either through traditional media or through social media, could tarnish this relationship. Also, in certain of its businesses the Company holds or has access to personal data, including that of customers. Adverse publicity stemming from a data breach, whether or not valid, could reduce demand for the Company’s products or adversely affect its relationship with teachers or educators, impacting participation in book clubs or book fairs or decisions to purchase educational materials or programs produced by the Company's Education segment. Further, a failure to adequately protect personal data, including that of customers or children, or other data security failure, such as cyber attacks from third parties, could lead to penalties, significant remediation costs and reputational damage, including loss of future business.The Company is subject to privacy laws and regulations in the conduct of its business in the United States and in the other jurisdictions in which it conducts its international operations, many of which vary significantly, relating to use of information obtained from customers of, and participants in, the Company’s on-line offerings. In addition, the Company is also subject to the regulatory requirements of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act ("COPPA") in the United States relating to access to, and the use of information received from, children in respect to the Company’s on-line offerings. Since the businesses of the Company are primarily centered on children, failures of the Company to comply with the requirements of COPPA in particular, as well as failures to comply generally with applicable privacy laws and regulations, could lead to significant reputational damage and other penalties and costs, including loss of future business. We maintain an experienced and dedicated employee base that executes the Company’s strategies. Failure to attract, retain and develop this employee base could result in difficulty with executing our strategy.The Company’s employees, notably its Chief Executive Officer, senior executives and other editorial staff members, have substantial experience in the publishing and education markets. Inability to adequately maintain a workforce of this nature could negatively impact the Company’s operations. - 9-If we are unsuccessful in implementing our corporate strategy we may not be able to maintain our historical growth. The Company’s future growth depends upon a number of factors, including the ability of the Company to successfully implement its strategies for its respective business units in a timely manner, the introduction and acceptance of new products and services, including the success of its digital strategy and its ability to implement and successfully market new programs in its educational publishing business, as well as through the Company's developing educational publishing operation in Singapore, its ability to expand in the global markets that it serves, its ability to meet demand for content meeting current standards in the United States, including the Common Core State Standards, and its continuing success in implementing on-going cost containment and reduction programs. Difficulties, delays or failures experienced in connection with any of these factors could materially affect the future growth of the Company.Failure of one or more of our information technology platforms could affect our ability to execute our operating strategy.The Company relies on a variety of information technology platforms to execute its operations, including human resources, payroll, finance, order-to-cash, procurement, vendor payment, inventory management, distribution and content management systems. Many of these systems are integrated via internally developed interfaces and modifications. Failure of one or more systems could lead to operating inefficiencies or disruptions and a resulting decline in revenue or profitability. As the Company proceeds to develop an enterprise-wide platform in an effort to integrate its separate platforms into a cohesive system, there can be no assurance that it will be successful in its efforts or that the implementation of its initiative will not involve disruptions having a short term adverse impact on its operations. Increases in certain operating costs and expenses, which are beyond our control and can significantly affect our profitability, could adversely affect our operating performance. The Company’s major expense categories include employee compensation and printing, paper and distribution (such as postage, shipping and fuel) costs. Compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting costs of health insurance, post-retirement benefits and any trends specific to the employee skill sets that the Company requires. Paper prices fluctuate based on worldwide demand and supply for paper in general, as well as for the specific types of paper used by the Company. If there is a significant disruption in the supply of paper or a significant increase in paper costs, or in its shipping or fuel costs, beyond those currently anticipated, which would generally be beyond the control of the Company, or if the Company’s strategies to try to manage these costs, including additional cost savings initiatives, are ineffective, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected.Failure of third party providers to provide contracted outsourcing of business processes and information technology services could cause business interruptions and could increase the costs of these services to the Company.The Company outsources business processes to reduce complexity and increase efficiency for activities such as distribution, manufacturing, product development, transactional processing, information technologies and various administrative functions. Increasingly, the Company is engaging third parties to provide software as a service (“SaaS”), which can reduce the Company’s internal execution risk, but increases the Company’s dependency upon third parties to execute business critical information technology tasks. If SaaS providers are unable to provide these services, or if outsource providers fail to execute their contracted functionality, the Company could experience disruptions to its business activities and may incur higher costs.The inability to obtain and publish best-selling new titles such as Harry Potter and the Hunger Games trilogy could cause our future results to decline in comparison to historical results. The Company invests in authors and illustrators for its Trade publication business, and has a history of publishing hit titles such as Harry Potter and the Hunger Games trilogy. The inability to publish best-selling new titles in future years could negatively impact the Company. The loss of or failure to obtain rights to intellectual property material to our businesses would adversely affect our financial results.The Company’s products generally comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media. The ability to achieve - 10-anticipated results depends in part on the Company’s ability to defend its intellectual property against infringement, as well as the breadth of rights obtained. The Company’s operating results could be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for its intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions, markets and media, as well as by the costs of dealing with claims alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others, including claims involving business method patents in the ecommerce and internet area, and the Company’s revenues could be constrained by limitations on the rights that the Company is able to secure to exploit its intellectual property in different media and distribution channels, as well as geographic limitations on the exploitation of such rights.Because we sell our products and services in foreign countries, changes in currency exchange rates, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. The Company has various operating subsidiaries domiciled in foreign countries. In addition, the Company sells products and services to customers located in foreign countries where it does not have operating subsidiaries, and a significant portion of the Company’s revenues are generated from outside of the United States. The Company’s business processes, including distribution, sales, sourcing of content, marketing and advertising, are, accordingly, subject to multiple national, regional and local laws, regulations and policies. The Company could be adversely affected by noncompliance with foreign laws, regulations and policies, including those pertaining to foreign rights and exportation. The Company is also exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and to business disruption caused by political, financial or economic instability or the occurrence of natural disasters in foreign countries.The recent sale of our educational technology and services (“Ed Tech”) business may cause certain risks, including:Failure to deliver services to Houghton Mifflin Harcourt (“HMH”) consistent with the terms of a transition services agreement could negatively impact us.In connection with the sale of the Ed Tech business to HMH, the Company entered into a transition services agreement whereby the Company will provide administrative, distribution and other services to HMH for a minimum of 6 months and up to a maximum of 24 months. Failure to deliver these services as agreed upon could expose the Company to increased costs, or penalties on amounts currently held in escrow of up to $29.5 million. Furthermore, the costs of delivering these services could exceed the remuneration for these services to be received from HMH pursuant to the agreement.We will be more highly dependent upon our remaining businesses.The Company will be substantially less diversified than before the sale of the Ed Tech business, and accordingly could experience higher volatility of revenues and earnings than in prior periods.Our inability to reduce shared costs across our remaining businesses could negatively impact us.Certain administrative, distribution and other costs are centralized across the Company’s domestic operations, and these costs are allocated to each of the Company’s domestic businesses. Failure to reduce these costs to the levels previously absorbed by the Ed Tech business could cause the Company’s earnings to decline.Failure to meet the demands of regulators, and the associated high cost of compliance with regulations, as well as failure to enforce compliance with our Code of Ethics and other policies, could negatively impact us. The Company operates in multiple countries and is subject to different regulations throughout the world. In the United States, the Company is regulated by the Internal Revenue Service, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal Trade Commission and other regulating bodies. Failure to comply with these regulators, including providing these regulators with accurate financial and statistical information that often is subject to estimates and assumptions, or the high cost of complying with relevant regulations, could negatively impact the Company. In addition, the decentralized and global nature of the Company’s operations makes it more difficult to communicate and monitor compliance with the Company’s Code of Ethics and other material Company policies and to assure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, some of which have global applicability, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States and the UK Bribery Act in the United Kingdom. Failures to comply with the Company’s Code of Ethics and violations of such laws or regulations, including through employee misconduct, could result in significant liabilities for the Company, including criminal liability, fines and civil litigation risk, and result in damage to the reputation of the Company. - 11-Certain of our activities are subject to weather risks, which could disrupt our operations or otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. The Company conducts certain of its businesses and maintains warehouse and office facilities in locations that are at risk of being negatively affected by severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods or snowstorms. Notably, much of the Company’s domestic distribution facilities are located in central Missouri. A disruption of these or other facilities could impact the Company’s school-based book clubs, school-based book fairs and education businesses. Additionally, weather disruptions could result in school closures, resulting in reduced demand for the Company’s products in its school channels during the affected periods. Accordingly, the Company could be adversely affected by any future significant weather event. Control of the Company resides in our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and other members of his family through their ownership of Class A Stock, and the holders of the Common Stock generally have no voting rights with respect to transactions requiring stockholder approval. The voting power of the Corporation’s capital stock is vested exclusively in the holders of Class A Stock, except for the right of the holders of Common Stock to elect one-fifth of the Board of Directors and except as otherwise provided by law or as may be established in favor of any series of preferred stock that may be issued. Richard Robinson, the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the Robinson family beneficially own all of the outstanding shares of Class A Stock and are able to elect up to four-fifths of the Corporation’s Board of Directors and, without the approval of the Corporation’s other stockholders, to effect or block other actions or transactions requiring stockholder approval, such as a merger, sale of substantially all assets or similar transaction. NoteThe risk factors listed above should not be construed as exhaustive or as any admission regarding the adequacy of disclosures made by the Company prior to and including the date hereof. Forward-Looking Statements: This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Additional written and oral forward-looking statements may be made by the Company from time to time in SEC filings and otherwise. The Company cautions readers that results or expectations expressed by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to the Company’s future business prospects, plans, ecommerce and digital initiatives, new product introductions, strategies, Common Core State Standards, goals, revenues, improved efficiencies, general costs, manufacturing costs, medical costs, merit pay, operating margins, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs, cash flows and income, are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements, due to factors including those noted in this Annual Report and other risks and factors identified from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Item 1B | Unresolved Staff Comments None 