Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks. Set forth below are certain of the important risks that we face and that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business could also be affected by additional factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial to our business. Continued deterioration in the global credit markets, changes in our credit ratings and macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our short-term and long-term debt is rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These investment-grade credit ratings have historically allowed us to take advantage of lower interest rates and other favorable terms on our short-term credit lines, in our senior debt offerings and in the commercial paper markets. To maintain our investment-grade ratings, we are required to meet certain financial performance ratios. An increase in our debt and/or a decline in our earnings could result in downgrades in our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result in an increase in interest rates and more restrictive terms on certain of our senior debt and our commercial paper, could limit our access to public debt markets, could limit the institutions willing to provide credit facilities to us and could significantly increase the interest rates on such facilities from current levels. 10 Table of Contents Moreover, significant deterioration in the financial condition of large financial institutions has resulted in a severe loss of liquidity and availability of credit in global credit markets and in higher short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms. During brief time intervals in the fourth quarter of calendar 2008 and the first quarter of calendar 2009, there was no liquidity in the commercial paper markets, resulting in an absence of commercial paper buyers and extraordinary high interest rates on commercial paper. Persistent recessionary conditions around the world could continue to affect the cost and availability of debt. We can provide no assurance that credit market events such as those that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 will not occur again in the foreseeable future. Conditions and events in the global credit market could have a material adverse effect on our access to short-term debt and the terms and cost of that debt. Macroeconomic conditions also impact both our customers and our suppliers. Continued recessionary conditions could result in additional job losses and business failures, which could result in our loss of certain small business customers and curtailment of spending by our retail customers. In addition, continued distress in global credit markets, business failures and other recessionary conditions could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our suppliers to meet our inventory demands. All of these macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our sales growth, margins and overhead, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations. We may not be able to sustain our recent rate of sales growth. We have increased our store count in the past five fiscal years, growing from 3,483 stores at August 28, 2004, to 4,417 stores at August 29, 2009, an average store count increase per year of 5%. Additionally, we have increased annual revenues in the past five fiscal years from $5.637 billion in fiscal 2004 to $6.817 billion in fiscal 2009, an average increase per year of 4%. Annual revenue growth is driven by the opening of new stores and increases in same-store sales. We open new stores only after evaluating customer buying trends and market demand/needs, all of which could be adversely affected by continued job losses, wage cuts, small business failures and microeconomic conditions unique to the automotive industry. Some of our new store openings are expected to be in Mexico, where legal and political factors can adversely affect our ability to obtain sites or permits to operate new stores. Same store sales are impacted both by customer demand levels and by the prices we are able to charge for our products, which can also be negatively impacted by continued recessionary pressures. We cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to open stores at historical rates or achieve increases in same-store sales. Our business depends upon qualified employees. At the end of fiscal 2009, our consolidated employee count was approximately 60,000. We cannot assure that we can continue to hire and retain qualified employees at current wage rates. If we do not maintain competitive wages, our customer service could suffer by reason of a declining quality of our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates. If demand for our products slows, then our business may be materially affected. Demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors, including: • the number of miles vehicles are driven annually. Higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair. Mileage levels may be affected by gas prices and other factors. • the number of vehicles in current service that are seven years old and older. These vehicles are generally no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers’ warranties and tend to need more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles. • the weather. Inclement weather may cause vehicle maintenance to be deferred. • the economy. In periods of rapidly declining economic conditions, both retail DIY and commercial DIFM customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair. Additionally, such conditions may affect our customers’ credit availability. During periods of expansionary economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars instead of working on their own vehicles or they may purchase new vehicles. 11 Table of Contents • rising energy prices. Increases in energy prices may cause our customers to defer purchases of certain of our products as they use a higher percentage of their income to pay for gasoline and other energy costs. For the long term, demand for our products may depend upon: • the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranties or maintenance offered on new vehicles; and • restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation. All of these factors could result in immediate and longer term declines in the demand for our products, which could adversely affect our sales, cash flows and overall financial condition. If we are unable to compete successfully against other businesses that sell the products that we sell, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive and is based on many factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. Competitors are opening locations near our existing stores. AutoZone competes as a supplier in both the DIY and DIFM auto parts and accessories markets. Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, including the knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability; product warranty; store layout, location and convenience; price; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks; some competitors may gain competitive advantages, such as greater financial and marketing resources, larger stores with more merchandise, longer operating histories, more frequent customer visits and more effective advertising. If we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. If we cannot profitably increase our market share in the commercial auto parts business, our sales growth may be limited. Although we are one of the largest sellers of auto parts in the commercial market, to increase commercial sales we must compete against national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, wholesalers and jobbers, repair shops and auto dealers. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, merchandise quality, selection and availability, price, product warranty and distribution locations, and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks, some automotive aftermarket jobbers have been in business for substantially longer periods of time than we have, have developed long-term customer relationships and have large available inventories. If we are unable to profitably develop new commercial customers, our sales growth may be limited. Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business. Recently some of our competitors have merged. Consolidation among our competitors could enhance their financial position, provide them with the ability to achieve better purchasing terms allowing them to provide more competitive prices to customers for whom we compete, and allow them to achieve efficiencies in their mergers that allow for more effective use of advertising and marketing dollars and allow them to more effectively compete for customers. These consolidated competitors could take sales volume away from us in certain markets and could cause us to change our pricing with a negative impact on our margins or could cause us to spend more money to maintain customers or seek new customers, all of which could negatively impact our business. 12 Table of Contents War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either, may negatively impact availability of merchandise and adversely impact our sales. War or acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be negatively affected. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores. Rising energy prices may negatively impact our profitability. As mentioned above, rising energy prices may impact demand for the products that we sell, overall transaction count and our profitability. Higher energy prices impact our merchandise distribution, commercial delivery, utility and product costs. Our largest stockholder, as a result of its voting ownership, may have the ability to exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders. As of October 19, 2009, ESL Investments, Inc. and certain of its investment affiliates (together, “ESL”) beneficially owned approximately 40% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, ESL may have the ability to exert substantial influence over actions to be taken or approved by our stockholders, including the election of directors and any transactions involving a change of control. In the future, ESL may acquire or sell shares of common stock and thereby increase or decrease its ownership stake in us. Significant fluctuations in their level of ownership could have an impact on our share price. In June 2008, we entered into an agreement with ESL (the “ESL Agreement”), in which ESL has agreed to vote shares of our common stock owned by ESL in excess of 40% in the same proportion as all non-ESL-owned shares are voted. Following the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company for the fiscal year ending on August 29, 2009, the applicable percentage threshold is reduced from 40% to 37.5% of the then outstanding common stock. Additionally, under the terms of the agreement, the Company added two directors in August 2008 that were identified by ESL. William C. Crowley, one of the two appointed directors, is the President and Chief Operating Officer of ESL Investments, Inc. The ESL Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.22 to this Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 