 Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents that the Corporation files with the SEC are risks that should be considered in evaluating the Corporation’s Common Stock, as well as risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual future results of the Company to differ from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements contained in this Report and in other public statements the Company makes. Additionally, because of the following risks and uncertainties, as well as other variables affecting the Company’s operating results, the Company’s past financial performance should not be considered an indicator of future performance. If we cannot anticipate trends and develop new products or technologies responding to changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect our revenues or profitability. The Company operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, including, in particular, changes in customer preferences. There are substantial uncertainties associated with the Company’s efforts to develop successful educational, trade publishing, entertainment and software and interactive products and services for its customers, as well as to adapt its print materials to new digital technologies, including the internet. The Company makes significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable, or whose profitability may be significantly lower than the Company has experienced historically. Our financial results would suffer if we fail to successfully meet market needs in school-based book clubs and book fairs, two of our core businesses. The Company’s school-based book clubs and book fairs are core businesses, which produce a substantial part of the Company’s revenues. The Company is subject to the risk that it will not successfully develop and execute new promotional strategies for its school-based book clubs or book fairs in response to future customer trends or otherwise meet market needs in these businesses in a timely fashion, which would have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. If we fail to maintain the continuance of strong relationships with our authors, illustrators and other creative talent, as well as to develop relationships with new creative talent, our business could be adversely affected. The Company’s business, in particular the trade publishing and media portions of the business, is highly dependent on maintaining strong relationships with the authors, illustrators and other creative talent who produce the products and services that are sold to its customers. Any overall weakening of these relationships, or the failure to develop successful new relationships, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial performance. 11 If we fail to adapt to new purchasing patterns or requirements, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. The Company’s business is affected significantly by changes in purchasing patterns or trends in, as well as the underlying strength of, the educational, trade, entertainment and software markets. In particular, the Company’s educational publishing and technology businesses may be adversely affected by budgetary restraints and other changes in state educational funding as a result of new legislation or regulatory actions, both at the federal and state level, as well as changes in the procurement process, to which the Company may be unable to adapt successfully. The competitive pressures we face in certain of our businesses could adversely affect our financial performance and growth prospects. The Company is subject to significant competition, including from other educational and trade publishers and media, entertainment and internet companies, many of which are substantially larger than the Company and have much greater resources. To the extent the Company cannot meet these challenges from existing or new competitors, including in the educational publishing business, and develop new product offerings to meet customer preferences or needs, the Company’s revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our corporate strategy we may not be able to maintain our historical growth. The Company’s future growth depends upon a number of factors, including the ability of the Company to implement successfully its strategies for the respective business units, the introduction and acceptance of new products and services, including the success of its digital strategy, its ability to expand in the global markets that it serves and its continuing success in implementing ongoing cost containment and reduction programs. Difficulties, delays or failures experienced in connection with any of these factors could materially affect the future growth of the Company. Increases in certain operating costs and expenses, which are beyond our control and can affect significantly our profitability, could adversely affect our operating performance. The Company’s major expense categories include employee compensation and printing, paper and distribution (such as postage, shipping and fuel) costs. The Company offers its employees competitive salaries and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality of employees required to grow and expand its businesses. Compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting costs of health insurance, post-retirement benefits and any trends specific to the employee skill sets the Company requires. Paper prices fluctuate based on worldwide demand and supply for paper, in general, as well as for the specific types of paper used by the Company. If there is a significant disruption in the supply of paper or increase in these costs, which would generally be beyond the control of the Company, or if the Company’s strategies to try to manage these costs, including additional cost savings initiatives, are ineffective, the Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company is experiencing significantly higher fuel costs currently and expects significant increases in the cost of paper and other commodities during the fiscal year ending May 31, 2009. The loss of or failure to obtain rights to intellectual property material to our businesses would adversely affect our financial results. The Company’s products generally comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media. The ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on the Company’s ability to defend its intellectual property against infringement, as well as the breadth of rights obtained. The Company’s operating results could be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions, markets and media, and the Company’s revenues could be constrained by limitations on the rights that the Company is able to secure to exploit its intellectual property in different media and distribution channels. 12 Because we sell our products and services in foreign countries, changes in currency exchange rates, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. The Corporation has various operating subsidiaries domiciled in foreign countries. In addition, the Company sells products and services to customers located in foreign countries where it does not have operating subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Company could be adversely affected by changes in currency exchange rates, as well as by the political and economic risks attendant to conducting business in foreign countries. These risks include the potential of political instability in developing nations where the Company is conducting business. Certain of our activities are subject to weather risks, which could disrupt our operations or otherwise adversely affect our financial performance. The Company conducts many of its businesses and maintains warehouse and office facilities in locations that are at risk of being negatively affected by severe weather events, such as hurricanes, floods or snowstorms. For example, in the fall of 2005, a series of hurricanes had a severe impact on the Gulf Coast area of the United States, closing several thousand schools, displacing several hundred thousand students and their families and, in turn, affecting the schools that took in those children. This impacted the Company’s school-based book clubs, school-based book fairs and education businesses. Accordingly, the Company could be adversely affected by any future significant weather event. Control of the Company resides in our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and other members of his family through their ownership of Class A Stock, and the holders of the Common Stock generally have no voting rights in respect of transactions requiring stockholder approval. The voting power of the Corporation’s capital stock is vested exclusively in the holders of Class A Stock, except for the right of the holders of Common Stock to elect one-fifth of the Board of Directors and except as otherwise provided by law or as may be established in favor of any series of preferred stock that may be issued. Richard Robinson, the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the Robinson family beneficially own all of the outstanding shares of Class A Stock and are able to elect up to four-fifths of the Corporation’s Board of Directors and, without the approval of the Corporation’s other stockholders, to effect or block other actions or transactions requiring stockholder approval, such as a merger, sale of substantially all assets or similar transactions. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive or as any admission regarding the adequacy of disclosures made by the Company prior to the date hereof. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Forward-Looking Statements: This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Additional written and oral forward-looking statements may be made by the Company from time to time in SEC filings and otherwise. The Company cautions readers that results or expectations expressed by forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those relating to the Company’s future business prospects, plans, strategies, goals, revenues, costs, operating margins, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income, are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements, due to factors including those noted in this Report and other risks and factors identified from time to time in the Company’s filings with the SEC. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive or as any admission regarding the adequacy of disclosures made by the Company prior to the date hereof. The Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Item 1B | Unresolved Staff Comments None 