Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a variety of risks. Set forth below are certain of the important risks that we face and that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business could also be affected by additional factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial to our business. We may not be able to sustain our recent rate of sales growth. We have increased our store count in the past five fiscal years, growing from 3,268 stores at August 30, 2003, to 4,240 stores at August 30, 2008, an average store count increase per year of 5%. Additionally, we have increased annual revenues in the past five fiscal years from $5.457 billion in fiscal 2003 to $6.523 billion in fiscal 2008, an average increase per year of 4%. Annual revenue growth is driven by the opening of new stores and same-store sales. We cannot provide any assurance that we can continue to open stores or increase same-store sales. 10 Table of Contents Our business depends upon qualified employees. At the end of fiscal 2008, our consolidated employee count was approximately 57,000. We cannot assure that we can continue to hire and retain qualified employees at current wage rates. If we do not maintain competitive wages, our customer service could suffer by reason of a declining quality of our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates. If demand for our products slows, then our business may be materially affected. Demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors. In the short term, it may depend upon: • the number of miles vehicles are driven annually. Higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair. Mileage levels may be affected by gas prices and other factors. • the number of vehicles in current service that are seven years old and older. These vehicles are generally no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers’ warranties and tend to need more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles. • the weather. Inclement weather may cause vehicle maintenance to be deferred. • the economy. In periods of rapidly declining economic conditions, both retail DIY and commercial do-it-for-me (“DIFM”) customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair. Additionally, such conditions may affect our customers’ credit availability. During periods of expansionary economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars instead of working on their own vehicles or they may purchase new vehicles. • rising energy prices. Increases in energy prices may cause our customers to defer purchases of certain of our products as they use a higher percentage of their income to pay for gasoline and other energy costs. For the long term, demand for our products may depend upon: • the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranties or maintenance offered on new vehicles; and • restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation. If we are unable to compete successfully against other businesses that sell the products that we sell, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive based on many factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. Competitors are rapidly opening locations near our existing stores. AutoZone competes as a supplier in both the DIY and DIFM auto parts and accessories markets. Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, including the knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability; product warranty; store layout, location and convenience; price; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks; some competitors may have competitive advantages, such as greater financial and marketing resources, larger stores with more merchandise, longer operating histories, more frequent customer visits and more effective advertising. If we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. 11 Table of Contents If we cannot profitably increase our market share in the commercial auto parts business, our sales growth may be limited. Although we are one of the largest sellers of auto parts in the commercial market, to increase commercial sales we must compete against national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, wholesalers and jobbers, repair shops and auto dealers. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, merchandise quality, selection and availability, price, product warranty and distribution locations, and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks, some automotive aftermarket jobbers have been in business for substantially longer periods of time than we have, have developed long-term customer relationships and have large available inventories. We can make no assurances that we can profitably develop new commercial customers or make available inventories required by commercial customers. If our vendors continue to consolidate, we may pay higher prices for our merchandise. In recent years, several of our vendors have merged. Further vendor consolidation could limit the number of vendors from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these products. Consolidation among our competitors may negatively impact our business. Recently some of our competitors have merged. If this trend continues or they are able to achieve efficiencies in their mergers, there may be greater competitive pressures in the markets in which they are stronger. War or acts of terrorism or the threat of either may negatively impact availability of merchandise and adversely impact our sales. War or acts of terrorism, or the threat of either, may have a negative impact on our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in our stores. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and profit margins may be negatively affected. In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores. Rising energy prices may negatively impact our profitability. As mentioned above, rising energy prices may impact demand for the products that we sell, overall transaction count and our profitability. Higher energy prices impact our merchandise distribution, commercial delivery, utility and product costs. Demand for our merchandise may decline if vehicle manufacturers refuse to make available the information our customers need to work on their own vehicles. Demand for our merchandise may decline if vehicle manufacturers refuse to make available to the automotive aftermarket industry diagnostic, repair and maintenance information that our customers, both retail (“DIY”) and commercial (“DIFM”), require to diagnose, repair and maintain their vehicles. Without public dissemination of this information, consumers may be forced to have all diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the vehicle manufacturers’ dealer network. 12 Table of Contents Deteriorating conditions in the global credit markets, changes in our credit ratings and macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our short-term and long-term debt is rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These investment-grade credit ratings have historically allowed us to take advantage of lower interest rates and other favorable terms on our short-term credit lines, in our senior debt offerings and in the commercial paper markets. To maintain our investment-grade ratings, we are required to meet certain financial performance ratios. An increase in our debt and/or a decline in our earnings could result in downgrades in our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result in an increase in interest rates and more restrictive terms on certain of our senior debt and our commercial paper, could limit our access to public debt markets, could limit the institutions willing to provide credit facilities to us and could significantly increase the interest rates on such facilities from current levels. Moreover, over the past several months, significant deterioration in the financial condition of large financial institutions has resulted in a severe loss of liquidity and availability in global credit markets and in higher short-term borrowing costs and more stringent borrowing terms. Recessionary conditions in the global economy threaten to cause further tightening of the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms and higher volatility in interest rates. Persistence of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our access to short-term debt and the terms and cost of that debt. In addition, further deterioration in the U.S. economy could adversely affect our corporate results, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 