Item 1A. Risk Factors This Form 10-K, including Item 1, “Business,” Item 2, “Properties,” Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the federal securities laws, as described under “Forward-Looking Statements” above. In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed in that section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following important risk factors could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements, or could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results or financial condition: Our sales of products to the Government depend upon continued Government funding. During the past three fiscal years, from 13% to 20% of our revenues from continuing operations have been generated from sales to the U.S. Government or its contractors. These sales are dependent on continuous government funding of the underlying programs. There could be reductions or terminations of, or delays in, the government funding on programs which apply to us or our customers. These funding effects could adversely affect our sales and profit, and could bring about a restructuring of our operations, which could result in an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, a significant part of VACCO’s sales involve major U.S. Government space programs. A reduction or delay in Government spending on these programs could have a significant adverse impact on our financial results. 6 Negative worldwide economic conditions and related credit shortages could result in a decrease in our sales and an increase in our operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If there is a worsening of global and U.S. economic and financial market conditions and additional tightening of global credit markets, as experienced in certain European countries, many of our customers may further delay or reduce their purchases of our products. Uncertainties in the global economy may cause the utility industry to experience shortages in available credit, which could limit capital spending. To the extent this problem affects customers of our USG segment, the sales and profits of this segment could be adversely affected. Likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, they may have to increase their prices or become unable to continue to offer the products and services we use to manufacture our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Economic, political and other risks of our international operations could adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2014, approximately 30% of our sales from continuing operations were made to international customers. An economic downturn or an adverse change in the political situation in certain foreign countries in which we do business could cause a decline in revenues and adversely affect our financial condition. For example, our Test segment does significant business in Asia and Europe. Changes in the Asian political climate or political changes in specific Asian countries could negatively affect our business. Weakness in the European economy could have a significant adverse effect on our European revenues. For example, several Doble and ETS-Lindgren companies are based in Europe, and could be negatively impacted by weakness in the European economy. In addition, political unrest, wars and terrorism, such as the current situation in the Middle East, could adversely affect our business. The U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), which impose certain restrictions on the U.S. export of defense articles and services, may be viewed as too restrictive by our international customers, who may develop their own domestic products or elect to procure products from other international suppliers which are not subject to such export restrictions. In addition, the laws, regulations or policies of certain other countries may favor domestic suppliers over foreign suppliers such as the Company. Our international sales are also subject to other risks inherent in foreign commerce, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, differences in foreign laws, uncertainties as to enforcement of contract rights, and difficulties in negotiating and resolving disputes with our foreign customers. The Company has guaranteed certain Aclara contracts. In connection with the sale of Aclara, the Company agreed to remain a guarantor of Aclara’s performance of certain Aclara contracts. If Aclara were to fail to perform any of these guaranteed contracts, the other party to the contract could seek damages resulting from the non-performance from the Company, and such damages could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If the Company did become liable for these damages, it would be entitled to seek indemnification from Aclara, although its ability to recover would be subject to Aclara’s financial position at that time Much of our competition is broadly based and global in scope. We face competition from a large number of manufacturers and distributors for nearly all of our products. Some of our competitors are larger, more diversified corporations, global in scope, with greater financial, marketing, production and research and development resources. If we cannot compete successfully against current or future competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1, “Business – Competition” for further discussion of these factors. A significant part of our manufacturing operations depends on a small number of third-party suppliers. A significant part of our manufacturing operations relies on a small number of third-party manufacturers to supply the segment’s products. For example, Doble has arrangements with four manufacturers which produce and supply substantially all of its end-products. One of these suppliers produces approximately 90% of Doble’s products from two locations within the United States. A significant disruption in the supply of those products could negatively affect the timely delivery of products to customers as well as future sales, increasing costs and reducing margins. Certain of our other businesses are dependent upon sole source or a limited number of third-party manufacturers of parts and components. Many of these suppliers are small businesses. Since alternative supply sources are limited, there is an increased risk of adverse impacts on our production schedules and profits if our suppliers were to default in fulfilling their price, quality or delivery obligations. Increases in prices of raw material and components, and decreased availability of such items, could adversely affect our business. The cost of raw materials and product components is a major element of the total cost of many of our products. For example, our Test segment’s critical components rely on purchases of raw materials from third parties. Increases in the prices of raw materials (such as steel, copper, nickel, zinc, wood and petrochemical products) could have an adverse impact on our business by, among other things, increasing costs and reducing margins. In the Filtration segment, aerospace-grade titanium and gaseous helium, important raw materials for VACCO, Crissair and PTI, may at times be in short supply. Further, many of Doble’s items of equipment which are provided to its customers for their use are in the maturity of their life cycles, which creates the risk that replacement components may be unavailable or available only at increased costs. 7 In addition, our reliance on sole or limited sources of supply of raw materials and components in each of our segments could adversely affect our business. Weather-created disruptions in supply, in addition to affecting costs, could impact our ability to procure an adequate supply of these raw materials and components, and delay or prevent deliveries of products to our customers. Our quarterly results may fluctuate substantially. We have experienced variability in quarterly results and believe our quarterly results will continue to fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the size and timing of customer orders, governmental actions, changes in existing taxation rules or practices, the gain or loss of significant customers, timing and levels of new product developments, shifts in product or sales channel mix, increased competition and pricing pressure, and general economic conditions. Failure or delay in new product development could reduce our future sales. Much of our business is dependent on the continuous development of new products and technologies to meet the changing needs of our markets on a cost-effective basis. Many of these markets are highly technical from an engineering standpoint, and the relevant technologies are subject to rapid change. If we fail to timely enhance existing products or develop new products, sales opportunities could be lost, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, in some existing contracts with customers, we have made commitments to develop and deliver new products. If we fail to meet these commitments, the default could result in the imposition on us of contractual penalties including termination. Our inability to enhance existing products in a timely manner could make our products less competitive, while our inability to successfully develop new products may limit our growth opportunities. Delays in product development may also require greater investment in research and development. Increased costs associated with new product development and product enhancements could adversely affect our operating results. Our costs of new product development may not be recoverable if demand for our products is not as anticipated. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties or competitors may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Current and future actions to enforce our proprietary rights may result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and may not be successful. In addition, we may not elect to pursue an unauthorized user due to the high costs and uncertainties associated with litigation. We may also face exposure to claims by others challenging our intellectual property rights. Inventory obsolescence could require a charge against our earnings. We maintain significant inventories of raw materials, components and finished goods deemed necessary to satisfy existing and future customer requirements. If our customers were to change, reduce or eliminate these requirements, or if product technology were to change significantly, certain of our inventories could become obsolete, which would require a charge against our earnings. 8 Changes in testing standards could adversely impact our Test and USG segments’ sales. A significant portion of the business of our Test and USG segments involves sales to technology customers, which result from these customers needing to meet specific international and domestic test standards. If demand for product testing from these customers decreases, our business could be adversely affected. Likewise, if regulatory agencies eliminate or reduce certain domestic or international test standards, our sales could be adversely affected. For example, if Wi-Fi technology in mobile phones were to be superseded by a new communications technology, then there might be no need for certain testing on mobile phones. Also, if a regulatory authority were to relax the test standards for certain electronic devices because they were determined not to interfere with the broadcast spectrum, our sales of certain products could be reduced. Disputes with contractors could adversely affect our Test segment’s costs. A major portion of our Test segment’s business involves working in conjunction with general contractors to produce end-products, such as electronic test chambers, secure communication rooms, MRI facilities, etc. If there are performance problems caused by either us or a contractor, they often result in cost overruns and may lead to a dispute as to which party is responsible. The resolution of such disputes can involve arbitration or litigation, and could cause us to incur significant expense including attorneys’ fees. In addition, these disputes may result in a reduction in revenue, a loss on a particular project, or even a significant damages award against us. The end of customer product life cycles could negatively affect our Filtration segment’s results. Many of our Filtration segment products are sold to be components in our customers’ end-products. If a customer discontinues a certain end-product line, our ability to continue to sell those components will be reduced or eliminated. The result could be a significant decrease in our sales. For example, a substantial portion of PTI’s revenue is generated from commercial aviation aftermarket sales. As certain aircraft are retired and replaced by newer aircraft, there could be a corresponding decrease in sales associated with our current products. Such a decrease could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if the Government cuts back the space program (for example, the Space Launch System), VACCO’s sales of space products would be reduced, and its revenues could be adversely affected. Product defects could result in costly fixes, litigation and damages. If there are claims related to defective products (under warranty or otherwise), particularly in a product recall situation, we could be faced with significant expenses in replacing or repairing the product. For example, the Filtration segment obtains raw materials, machined parts and other product components from suppliers who provide certifications of quality which we rely on. Should these product components be defective and pass undetected into finished products, or should a finished product contain a defect, we could incur significant costs for repairs, re-work and/or removal and replacement of the defective product. In addition, if a dispute over product claims cannot be settled, arbitration or litigation may result, requiring us to incur attorneys’ fees and exposing us to the potential of damage awards against us. Environmental or regulatory requirements could increase our expenses and adversely affect our profitability. Our operations and properties are subject to U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the generation, storage, emission, discharge, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and the clean-up of contaminated properties. These regulations, and changes to them, could increase our cost of compliance, and our failure to comply could result in the imposition of significant fines, suspension of production, alteration of product processes, cessation of operations or other actions which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently involved as a responsible party in several ongoing investigations and remediations of contaminated third-party owned properties. In addition, environmental contamination may be discovered in the future on properties which we formerly owned or operated and for which we could be legally responsible. Future costs associated with these situations, including those currently unknown to us, are difficult to quantify but could have a significant effect on our financial condition. See Item 1, “Business – Environmental Matters” for a discussion of these factors. 9 The loss of specialized key employees could affect our performance and revenues. There is a risk of our losing key employees having engineering and technical expertise to other employers. For example, our USG segment relies heavily on engineers with significant experience and reputation in the utility industry to furnish expert consulting services and support to customers. There is a current trend of a shortage of these qualified engineers because of hiring competition from other companies in the industry. Loss of these employees to other employers could reduce the segment’s ability to provide services and negatively affect our revenues. Our acquisitions of other companies carry risk. We have acquired other companies in the past and expect to continue to do so in the future if favorable opportunities arise. Acquisitions of other companies involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies and products of the acquired companies, the potential exposure to unanticipated and undisclosed liabilities, the potential that expected benefits or synergies are not realized and that operating costs increase, the potential loss of key personnel, suppliers or customers of acquired businesses and the diversion of Management’s time and attention from other business concerns. Although we will attempt to identify and evaluate the risks inherent in any future transaction, we may not properly ascertain or mitigate all such risks, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may incur significant costs, experience short term inefficiencies, or be unable to realize expected long term savings from our planned facility consolidations and other business reorganizations. We periodically assess the cost and operational structure of our facilities in order to manufacture and sell our products in the most efficient manner. Based on our assessments, we determined to relocate and consolidate Crissair’s operations from a leased facility in Palmdale, California into Canyon’s owned facility in Valencia, California. Although the relocation was completed as of September 30, 2014, completion of the consolidation, as well as any future facility reorganizations which we may undertake, may require us to incur significant costs and may result in short term business inefficiencies as we consolidate and close facilities and transition our employees. In addition, we may not achieve the expected long term benefits from these consolidations. Any or all of these factors could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 