ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces significant risks. The risk factors set forth below may not be the only ones that we face. Additional risks that we are not aware of yet or that currently are not material may adversely affect our business operations. We may not be able to increase our revenue and our operating results are likely to fluctuate, which may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to increase revenue or generate gross profits or net income. Our revenue and operating results are likely to fluctuate, causing our stock price to fluctuate. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the following additional factors: • the timing and volume of sales of our products; • market demand for, and changes in the average sales prices of, our products and technologies; • a shortage of critical parts, which may negatively impact our ability to fulfill customer orders; • fluctuating demand for, and life cycles of, our products; • changes in our relationship with Dell, our largest customer with which we have an exclusive sales and marketing agreement regarding certain ruggedized computer notebook products; • inconsistency in forecasts provided to us by Dell, resulting in increased inventory exposure as we build to the current Dell forecast; • decreases in military spending and the budgets of federal, state and local agencies, impacting sales of our ruggedized products; • the failure of our ruggedized products to meet the military specification MIL-STD-810F, which is the required specification for products to be considered rugged; • operational risks from our reliance on suppliers, subcontractors and third-party manufacturers for the production of ruggedized products; • changes in the level of our operating expenses; • our ability to develop new products that are successfully qualified and utilized by customers; • our ability to manufacture and ship products within a particular reporting period; • deferrals or cancellations of customer orders in anticipation of the development and commercialization of new technologies or for other reasons; • our ability to enter into new licensing arrangements, and the terms and conditions for payment to us of license fees under those arrangements; • changes in our royalties caused by changes in demand for products incorporating semiconductors that use our licensed technologies; • changes in our products and technologies; • seasonal purchasing patterns for our products, with lower revenue generally occurring in the first and second quarters; • the timing of the introduction by others of competing, replacement or substitute products and technologies; 14 Table of Contents • our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others, as well as our ability to protect our intellectual property, and the significant costs to us of related litigation; and • general economic conditions that may affect demand for our products. The recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent financial crisis affecting the financial markets and banking industry has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets; a low level of liquidity in many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income and equity markets. This situation could affect the budgeting and purchasing behavior of our customers. If economic growth is slowed or uncertain, many customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. In addition, there could be a number of follow-on consequences from the current situation on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers, resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; increased expense or inability to obtain short-term financing to fund our operations, if necessary; among other issues. These consequences could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent upon an exclusive contract with Dell for revenue generated from the sale of our ruggedized notebook products, which represents a significant portion of our revenue, and in the event of any adverse change to our relationship with Dell, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Presently, Dell is our only customer for our rugged notebooks. Revenue from Dell is expected to represent a substantial percentage of our total revenue in 2009. If Dell reduces or discontinues its business with us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we heavily rely on the Dell sales force to sell our ruggedized notebook products and the Dell service organization to provide support to us. If we experience issues regarding insufficient training or lack of sales efforts by the Dell sales force, the decline of sales of our ruggedized notebook products could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. A substantial percentage of our total revenue depends on the sale of ruggedized notebook products, and as a result, any significant reduction of sales of these products could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Because our revenue is derived substantially from sales of our ruggedized notebook products, we are highly dependent upon the continued market acceptance of these products. Continued market acceptance of our ruggedized notebook products is critical to our future success. Any significant reduction of sales of these products could materially and adversely affect our business. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for our ruggedized products, and the loss of these suppliers and our inability to procure new suppliers at comparative costs could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase notebooks and components from a limited number of suppliers. Dell is the sole supplier of many of the components that are used in our ruggedized laptop computers. While we believe that alternative sources are available, contractual obligations to Dell preclude our ability to secure new suppliers. The loss of our supplier could cause a disruption in the availability of these products. In addition, we have a limited number of suppliers for other components, and a disruption in the supply of these components may also cause a disruption in the availability of these components and a delay in manufacturing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 Table of Contents We depend on third parties to manufacture our ruggedized products, subjecting us to certain operational risks. We currently depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our ruggedized products and ruggedized products under development, and this reliance subjects us to significant operational risks, any of which could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers should they occur. Our reliance involves a number of risks, including: • reduced management and control of component purchases; • reduced control over delivery schedule and quality assurance; • reduced control over manufacturing yields; • lack of adequate capacity during periods of excess demand; • limited warranties on products supplied to us; • potential increases in prices; • interruption of supplies as a result of fire, natural calamity, strike or other significant events; and • misappropriation of our intellectual property. We rely on sales forecasts provided by Dell, subjecting us to certain inventory risks. We rely on sales forecasts provided by Dell on a monthly basis. We build our rugged notebooks to these forecasts as they are provided to us, which may result in increased inventory exposure in the event Dell reduces its forecast after we have procured materials. Any such reduced forecast by Dell could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Budget constraints of the U.S. military, federal, state and local governments could negatively impact sales of our ruggedized products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We market to the U.S. military forces as potential customers of our ruggedized products, as well as other state and local governments. Any decrease in spending by these agencies or a change in the current political situation or overall market conditions may negatively impact sales of our ruggedized products, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In the event of a failure of our ruggedized products to meet the military specification MIL-STD-810F, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our products are ruggedized to meet (and in some cases, exceed) the military specifications MIL-STD-810F. Created by the U.S. government, the MIL-STD-810F specifications cover a broad range of tests that measure the durability of equipment used under harsh conditions. A failure to meet this standard would result in our products not qualifying as “rugged” products, which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, this standard could change, third-party components could fail to meet the required specifications, or a third-party manufacturer could fail to produce our products according to the required specifications, each of which could also have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. Some of our suppliers and subcontractors do not have long operating histories or significant financial strength. Some of the suppliers and subcontractors with which we engage to provide services to us are small companies without a long operating history or significant financial strength. We have selected these third parties because of their flexibility in dealing with our schedules, their prices and expertise, among other factors, but they 16 Table of Contents may not have the reliability or financial position of larger, more well-established suppliers and subcontractors. As a result, we face increased risks in dealing with these third parties in terms of their financial position, ability to continue operations and meet their commitments and quality control, among other issues, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We depend on key Dell personnel, and in the event of changes to these Dell personnel, our business could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our relationships with key Dell personnel, who have been, and continue to be, instrumental to us in a variety of ways, including selecting us on an exclusive basis, as well as developing, marketing and selling our ruggedized notebook products. If any of these key personnel leave their current positions with Dell, this could jeopardize our future relationship with Dell, as well as delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our ruggedized notebook products. We rely on Dell to purchase products from our inventory hub so that we can receive payment for our products. If Dell does not take possession of these products, we will not be paid, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We stock certain of our products in a hub based on a forecast from Dell, from which Dell purchases products and pays us after taking possession. This arrangement allows us to receive payment for these products on a regular basis, so that we can pay our suppliers on a timely basis without significant exposure to our working capital. If we stock our hub but Dell does not purchase our products, this could result in an increase in our inventory levels, as well as an increase in our working capital exposure, since we will be required to pay our suppliers prior to receiving payment from Dell. This change could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we do not have long-term agreements with our customers and generally do not have a significant backlog of unfilled orders, our revenue and operating results in any quarter are difficult to forecast. With the exception of our exclusive sales and marketing contract between Augmentix and Dell, we do not have long-term purchase agreements with customers. Because our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenue and to a large extent are fixed in the short term, we likely will be unable to adjust spending on a timely basis to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of revenue in relation to our expectations could hurt our operating results and depress our stock price. In 2008, we depended on a limited number of key customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, which number of customers we expect will be smaller in 2009, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, a key customer could significantly reduce our revenue. Our five largest customers accounted for 74% of our total revenue in 2008, 75% of our total revenue in 2007 and 89% of our total revenue in 2006. In particular, Dell, SMART and Micron accounted for 36%, 15% and 9% respectively, of our total revenue in 2008. SMART and Micron are customers from our Memory Solutions segment. In 2009, with the termination of our manufacturing services of our Memory Solutions business, we will have fewer customers than in 2008. We expect that sales of our products to a limited number of customers will continue to represent a majority of our revenue in the foreseeable future. The loss of, or a significant reduction in purchases by, any of our major customers could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents The NASDAQ Stock Market notified us that the bid price of our common stock had closed below the per-share requirement for continued inclusion on NASDAQ, which could result in delisting our securities, and which could limit investors’ ability to trade in our securities. On July 21, 2008, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market notifying us that for the 30 consecutive business days preceding the date of the letter, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5). In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), we had 180 calendar days from the date of the NASDAQ letter, or until January 20, 2009, to regain compliance. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. NASDAQ may, in its discretion, require us to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive business days, but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days, before determining that we have demonstrated an ability to maintain long-term compliance. If we do not regain compliance, NASDAQ will notify us of its determination to delist our common stock, which decision we can appeal to a NASDAQ Listings Qualification Panel. However, effective October 17, 2008, NASDAQ suspended compliance with the minimum bid price rule, and as a result, we now have until July 20, 2009, to comply with this requirement. If we are not able to comply, we may request stockholder approval to effect a reverse stock split, with the intent to comply with NASDAQ’s requirements and remain listed. If our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, the trading market for our common stock would likely be adversely affected, as price quotations may not be as readily obtainable, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We face several issues in connection with shutting down our manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico. We are closing down our manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico, and have listed the facility for sale or lease. There are many legal and regulatory issues we face, and regulations with which we must comply, as a result of our decision to close this facility. In addition, we may not be able to sell or lease our facility in a timely manner. If we encounter regulatory or other issues, or if we are unable to sell or lease our facility in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights, our customers or our competitors might gain access to our technologies, which could adversely affect our ability to sell our products, to license our memory solutions, to compete successfully in our markets, as well as result in refunds we are required to pay to Dell and other customers and harm our operating results. We believe that the strength of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, critical to the success of our business. If any of our key patents or other intellectual property rights are invalidated or deemed unenforceable, if a court limits the scope of the claims in any of our key patents or other intellectual property rights, if we fail to protect our intellectual property or unknowingly develop products based on the intellectual property of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. We indemnify Dell and other customers for patent infringement, so in the event an infringement claim is made with respect to the notebooks we sell to Dell or other products sold to customers, if we cannot defend against the claim made, we may have to refund to Dell and other customers the purchase price of the products sold, as well as defend against the infringement claim. In addition, if we do not protect our proprietary rights, the likelihood that companies will continue to license our memory solutions could be significantly reduced. If we fail to obtain patents or if the patents issued to us do not cover all of the claims we asserted in our patent applications, others could use portions of our intellectual property without the payment of license fees and royalties. The results of the factors set forth above could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of license, development and nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and patent, trademark and trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. It is possible that these efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not: • prevent challenges to, or the invalidation or circumvention of, our existing patents; • result in patents that lead to commercially viable products or provide competitive advantages for our products; • prevent our competitors from independently developing similar products, duplicating our products or designing around the patents owned by us; • prevent third-party patents from having an adverse effect on our ability to do business; • provide adequate protection for our intellectual property rights; • prevent disputes with third parties regarding ownership of our intellectual property rights; • prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how to third parties or into the public domain; or • result in valid patents, including international patents, from any of our pending applications. A court invalidation or limitation of our key patents could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our patent portfolio contains some patents that are particularly significant to our ongoing license revenue. If any of these key patents is invalidated, or if a court limits the scope of the claims in any of these key patents, the likelihood that companies will take new licenses and that current licensees will continue to agree to pay under their existing licenses could be significantly reduced. The resulting loss in license fees and royalties could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In July 2008, we issued an aggregate principal amount of approximately $10,700,000 in convertible notes (the “Notes”) due in 2010. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could: • require us to dedicate a portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; • make it difficult for us to incur additional debt or obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business; • limit our ability to sell ourselves or engage in other strategic transactions; • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business; or • place us at a possible competitive disadvantage relative to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have greater access to capital resources. If we experience a decline in revenue due to any of the factors described in this section entitled “Risk Factors,” or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying amounts due on our indebtedness. Although the Notes 19 Table of Contents mature in 2010, the holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase their Notes prior to maturity under certain circumstances, including specified fundamental changes such as the sale of a majority of the voting power of the Company. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or are otherwise unable to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of the Notes, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any other indebtedness that we may have outstanding at such time. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversion of the Notes would dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. The former Augmentix stockholders have the right to convert the principal and any unpaid interest into our common stock at a conversion price of $2.50 at any time prior to the earlier of (i) December 31, 2010, (ii) a change of control of the Company or (iii) the redemption of all of the outstanding principal amount of the Notes. The conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. If our product failure rates increase, Dell could terminate our relationship and we could be subject to increased warranty costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We repair or replace products that have been authorized for repair or replacement by our customers. We utilize a third-party service provider to perform a full range of service and support options, ranging from telephone, email, online, on-site, return-to-depot and customer replaceable units (parts). We warrant products for periods ranging from 12 to 37 months following the sale of our products. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating the quality of our component suppliers, our warranty obligations are affected by product failure rates, material usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs increase, our warranty costs to support the products in the field could increase, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Dell could terminate its contract with us, which would also have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue may suffer if we cannot continue to license or enforce our intellectual property rights or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in our technology. However, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our technology adequately against unauthorized third-party use, which could adversely affect our business. Third parties also may claim that we or our customers are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards. Some of our license agreements provide limited indemnities and we may agree to indemnify others in the future. Our indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses. In addition to the time and expense required for us to indemnify our licensees, a licensee’s development, marketing and sales of licensed semiconductors could be severely disrupted or shut down as a result of litigation, which in turn could hamper our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our business could suffer. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of revenue diversification. Until our acquisition of Augmentix, we derived nearly all of our revenue from sales or licenses of our Stakpak and memory module solutions. We terminated our memory solutions manufacturing business and now are focusing on our Rugged Technology Solutions business, which derives nearly all of its revenue from sales to Dell. We expect these sales to continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenue in the near term. Continued market acceptance of our products is critical to our future success. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by: • any decline in demand for our products; • failure of our products and technologies to achieve continued market acceptance; • the introduction of products and technologies that can serve as a substitute for, replacement of or represent an improvement over, our products and technologies; • technological innovations that we are unable to address with our products and technologies; and • any inability by us to release new products or enhanced versions of our existing products and technologies on a timely basis or the failure of our products to achieve market acceptance. The average selling prices of our products could decrease rapidly, which may negatively impact our revenue and gross margins. We may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our future revenue and operating results due to a decline in the average selling prices for our products. From time to time, we reduce the average unit price of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, declining component prices, introductions of new products by us and other factors. To improve our gross margins, we will need to develop and introduce new products and technologies on a timely basis and continually reduce our costs. Our failure to do so could cause our revenue and gross margins to decline. It is difficult for us to verify royalty amounts owed to us under our license agreements, and licensees may report errors in their reports after they have paid us, which may cause us to lose revenue. The standard terms of our license agreements require our licensees to document the manufacture and sale of products that incorporate our technologies and report this data to us on a periodic basis. Although our standard license terms give us the right to audit books and records of our licensees to verify this information, audits can be expensive, time consuming and potentially detrimental to our ongoing business relationship with our licensees. As a result, to date, we have primarily relied on the accuracy of the reports themselves without independently verifying the information in them. Our failure to audit our licensees’ books and records may result in us receiving less royalty revenue than we are entitled to under the terms of our license agreements. In addition, a licensee may report errors in reporting after the licensee has paid us royalties, which is the action Samsung has taken with royalties it has paid us from the fourth quarter of 2005 and ending in the first quarter of 2008. If we are required to refund royalties paid in earlier quarters, a refund could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash position. If our products include defective parts, we may be subject to product liability or other claims. If we sell products that are defective or contain defective components, we could be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, safety alerts or advisory notices. While we have product liability insurance coverage, we cannot assume that it will be adequate to satisfy claims made against us in the future or that we will be able to obtain insurance in the future at satisfactory rates or in adequate amounts. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation, and on our ability to attract and retain customers. 21 Table of Contents The viability of our ODM business model could be threatened if we are unable to control costs. Dell expects us to deliver products and new designs within certain cost parameters, and our ability to pass unexpected costs on to Dell is limited. We also experience pressure to reduce our margins. Accordingly, if we are unable to design or procure ruggedized notebook products efficiently, our business model could be unprofitable. If the supply of materials used to manufacture our products is interrupted, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In order to have our ruggedized products manufactured, we require components, such as, but not limited to, main logic boards, memory, base LCDs, power supplies, chassis, thermal systems, optical enhancements, and other rugged elements. We typically procure these materials from limited sources. Shortages in some of these materials may occur from time to time, and have occurred in the past. In addition to shortages, we could experience quality problems with these materials. If our supply of materials is interrupted for any reason, or our manufacturing turnaround times are extended, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are vulnerable to increases in shipping costs, which could have an adverse impact on our gross profit margin. Presently, our supply chain configuration requires us to bear the expense of transporting our rugged notebook products over 10,000 miles before our manufacturing process is complete and the products are made available to our primary customer. Historically, we have almost exclusively relied on air transportation to ship our products due to the need to deliver products in a timely manner. If the cost of air transportation increases in the future, or we are unable to decrease our reliance on air transportation and decrease the distances we must transport products, we could face a decline in our gross profit margins. We are a small company with limited resources compared to some of our current and potential competitors, and we may not be able to compete effectively and maintain or increase our market share. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources and name recognition, and a larger base of customers than we have. Some of these companies are better positioned to influence industry acceptance of a particular industry standard or competing technology than we are. These companies may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, and may be able to deliver competitive products or technologies at a lower price. They also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can adopt. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products, reduce their prices and introduce new services and technologies that may offer greater performance and improved pricing, any of which could cause a decline in revenue or loss of market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors may develop enhancements to, or future generations of, competitive products that may render our products or technologies obsolete or uncompetitive. These and other competitive pressures may prevent us from competing successfully against current or future competitors, and may materially harm our business. Competition could decrease our prices, reduce our revenue, lower our gross profits or decrease our market share. If we acquire other businesses or technologies in the future, these acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As part of our growth and product diversification strategy, we will evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses, intellectual property or technologies that would complement our current offerings, expand the 22 Table of Contents breadth of our markets or enhance our technical capabilities. For example, on August 31, 2007, we acquired Southland, a provider of memory products and services for leading OEMs, and on July 14, 2008, we acquired Augmentix, a provider of mission-critical mobile and server computing solutions for use in demanding environments. Acquisitions entail a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies or products of the acquired companies; • the risk of diverting management’s time and attention from the normal daily operations of the business; • insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • difficulties in retaining business relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired companies; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • the potential need to amortize intangible assets. Future acquisitions also could cause us to incur additional debt or contingent liabilities or cause us to issue equity securities. These actions could negatively impact the ownership percentages of our existing stockholders, our financial condition and results of operations. Our limited experience in acquiring other businesses, product lines and technologies may make it difficult for us to overcome problems we may encounter in connection with any acquisitions we undertake. We evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combinations, strategic relationships, capital investments and the purchase, licensing or sale of assets. Our experience in acquiring other businesses, product lines and technologies is limited. The attention of our small management team may be diverted from our core business if we undertake future acquisitions. Future acquisitions may also require us to incur debt or issue equity securities that may result in dilution of existing stockholders. Potential future acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including, among others: • problems and delays in successfully assimilating and integrating the purchased operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems; • unanticipated costs and expenditures associated with the acquisition, including any need to infuse significant capital into the acquired operations; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers, customers and strategic partners; • risks associated with entering markets and foreign countries in which we have no or limited prior experience; • contractual, intellectual property or employment issues; • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations; and • potential litigation arising from the acquired company’s operations before the acquisition. We may make acquisitions that are dilutive to existing shareholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. We may grow our business through business combinations or other acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. If we make any future acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute our earnings and stockholders’ percentage ownership, reduce our cash reserves, incur substantial debt, or assume contingent liabilities. 23 Table of Contents Furthermore, acquisitions may require material infrequent charges and could result in adverse tax consequences, deferred compensation charges, substantial depreciation, in-process research and development charges, the amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and identifiable purchased intangible assets or impairment of goodwill, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations. We expect a portion of our future revenue to be derived from license royalties, which is inherently risky. Because we expect a portion of our future revenue to be derived from license royalties, our future success depends on: • our ability to secure broad patent coverage for our technologies and enter into license agreements with potential licensees; and • the ability of our licensees to develop and commercialize successful products that incorporate our technologies. Although we have engaged in discussions with potential licensees for our technologies, we historically have not devoted significant resources to licensing our technologies. Currently we have five licensees, although only one of which is currently paying us royalties of a material amount. We face risks inherent in a royalty-based business model, many of which are outside of our control, such as the following: • the rate of adoption of our technologies by, and the incorporation of our technologies into products of, semiconductor manufacturers and OEMs; • the extent to which large equipment vendors and materials providers develop and supply tools and materials to enable manufacturing using our technologies on a cost-effective basis and in quantities sufficient to enable volume manufacturing; • the willingness of our licensees and others to make investments in the manufacturing process that supports our licensed technologies, and the amount and timing of those investments; • our licensees’ ability to design and assemble memory modules and other system parts that utilize our technologies in components qualified for use by OEMs; • any failure by our licensees to abide by compliance and quality control guidelines with respect to our proprietary rights; • actions by our licensees that could severely harm our ability to use our proprietary rights; • the pricing and demand for products incorporating memory modules and other system parts that utilize our licensed technologies; • our ability to structure, negotiate and enforce agreements for the determination and payment of royalties; • the cyclicality of supply and demand for products using our licensed technologies; and • competition we may face with respect to our licensees competing with our services business. It is difficult to predict when we will enter into additional license agreements, if at all. The time it takes to establish a new licensing arrangement can be lengthy. The timing of our receipt of royalty payments and the timing of how we recognize license revenue under license agreements may fluctuate and significantly impact our quarterly or annual operating results. Because we may recognize a significant portion of license fee revenue in the quarter that the license is signed, the timing of signing license agreements may impact our quarterly or annual operating results. Under our typical license agreements, we also receive ongoing royalty payments, and these may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on sales of products incorporating our licensed technologies. 24 Table of Contents Because our licensing cycle is lengthy and costly, it is difficult to predict future revenue, which may cause us to miss market estimates and may result in our stock price declining. Pursuing and entering into new license agreements generally requires significant marketing and sales efforts. The length of time it takes to establish a new licensing relationship can range from six to 12 months or longer. Because our licensing cycle is a lengthy process, the accurate prediction of future revenue from new licenses is difficult. In addition, engineering services are dependent upon the varying level of assistance desired by licensees and, therefore, revenue from these services is also difficult to predict as it is recognized in the period in which we render service. There can be no assurance that we can accurately estimate the amount of resources required to complete projects, or that we will have, or be able to expend, sufficient resources required to complete a project. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the product development schedule for these projects will not be changed or delayed. All of these factors make it difficult to predict future licensing revenue that may result in us missing analysts’ estimates and may cause our stock price to decline. Our marketing and sales efforts may be unsuccessful. We have limited sales and marketing resources. As our business evolves, we may have to employ more rigorous sales and marketing efforts, hire more sales and marketing personnel and engage in lengthy negotiations to reach agreement with potential customers. As a result, our operating expenses may increase, and we may incur losses in periods that precede the generation of revenue. If the sales and marketing efforts of our technologies are unsuccessful, then we may not be able to sell or license our technologies. We have intangible assets that may become impaired, which could significantly affect our results of operations in the period recognized. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically evaluate the recoverability of all of our intangible assets when indicators of impairment exist. The following factors may result in an impairment of our intangible assets: significant negative industry or economic trends; disruptions to our business; declines in revenue or market capitalization; or other factors may result in an impairment of our intangible assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. If we experience credit losses or other collections issues, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We have not historically recorded a bad debt allowance or established reserves for our accounts receivable because we did not have significant credit losses or other collections issues during the periods for which financial information is presented. However, we now have a bad debt allowance due to the bankruptcy of a large customer. Although we do not believe that we will incur any additional material credit losses in the foreseeable future, if we were to do so, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely manner, our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position could be harmed. Our future success will be based in large part on our ability to reduce our dependence on Dell by increasing revenue associated with our other products and by developing other new technologies and enhancements that can achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. Successful development and introduction of new technologies on a timely basis require that we: • identify and adjust to changing requirements of customers; • identify and adapt to emerging technological trends in our target markets; 25 Table of Contents • maintain effective marketing strategies; • timely design and introduce cost-effective, innovative and performance-enhancing features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; and • successfully develop our relationships with existing and potential customers. Funds associated with our auction rate securities may not be accessible in the short term, and we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these securities through an impairment charge. As discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our investment securities consist of auction rate securities (ARS), which are not currently liquid or readily available to convert to cash. We do not believe that the current liquidity issues related to our ARS will impact our ability to fund our ongoing business operations. However, we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction for these ARS is successful or until we sell the securities in a secondary market, which currently is not active. During October 2008, we accepted an offer provided to us by the investment firm through which we hold our ARS to sell our ARS to them at par value at any time over a two-year period, beginning June 30, 2010 and ending July 2, 2012. The failure of any bank in which we deposit our funds could impair our operations. We have approximately $24.6 million in cash, cash equivalents, investments and long-term investments with major financial institutions. The current banking crisis may place our deposits with our banks at risk and the FDIC deposit insurance will not be sufficient to cover any potential loss arising from a bank failure. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash, cash equivalents and investments could impair our operations. Austin Ventures controls us, and will continue to control us, as long as it beneficially owns a majority of our common stock. Austin Ventures beneficially owns approximately 78% of our outstanding common stock. Because Austin Ventures and its affiliates own more than 50% of our common stock, we are considered a “controlled company” under NASD Marketplace Rule 4350(c)(5), and we are exempt from NASD rules that would otherwise require that our board of directors consist of a majority of independent directors. As a “controlled company,” we also are exempt from NASD rules that require the compensation of officers and the nomination of company directors be determined by a committee of independent directors or a majority of independent directors. Our board of directors currently consists of eight directors, of which three qualify as independent directors under NASD rules. As long as Austin Ventures beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, Austin Ventures will continue to be able to elect all members of our board of directors. Purchasers of our common stock will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote until Austin Ventures beneficially owns less than a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Austin Ventures will control all matters affecting us, including: • the composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers or other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; and • our corporate finance activities. In addition, to the extent that Austin Ventures continues to beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock, although less than a majority, it will continue to have a significant influence over all matters submitted to our stockholders and to exercise significant control over our business policies and affairs. Under our certificate of incorporation, as amended, if Austin Ventures ceases to own at least 30% of our 26 Table of Contents outstanding common stock, the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our common stock will be required for stockholders to amend our certificate of incorporation or bylaws, to increase or decrease the authorized number of shares of our capital stock or to remove a director. Furthermore, concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. This significant concentration of share ownership may also adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company that is controlled by a small number of stockholders. Austin Ventures is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to any third party, or from selling its shares at any time, which could adversely affect our stock price. Austin Ventures and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with our interests. Austin Ventures and its designees on our board of directors may have interests that conflict with, or are different from, our own. Conflicts of interest between Austin Ventures and us may arise, and such conflicts of interest may not be resolved in a manner favorable to us, including potential competitive business activities, corporate opportunities, indemnity arrangements, registration rights, sales or distributions by Austin Ventures of our common stock and the exercise by Austin Ventures of its ability to control our management and affairs. Our certificate of incorporation does not contain any provisions designed to facilitate resolution of actual or potential conflicts of interest, or to ensure that potential business opportunities that may become available to both Austin Ventures and us will be reserved for or made available to us. Pertinent provisions of law will govern any such matters if they arise. In addition, Austin Ventures and its director designees could delay or prevent an acquisition or merger even if the transaction would benefit other stockholders. We depend on a few key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we lose the services of any of those personnel or are unable to hire additional personnel, our business could be harmed. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. We believe that our future success will be dependent on retaining the services of our key personnel, developing their successors, modifying our internal processes to reduce our reliance on specific individuals, and on properly managing the transition of key roles should departures or additions to the management team occur. The loss of any of our key employees, or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our services and technologies. We may be involved in costly legal proceedings to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Litigation is inherently uncertain, and an adverse outcome could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights. Legal proceedings we initiate to protect our intellectual property rights could also result in counterclaims or countersuits against us. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, could be time consuming and expensive to resolve and could divert our management’s time and attention. Any intellectual property litigation also could force us to take specific actions, including: • cease selling products that are claimed to be infringing a third party’s intellectual property; • obtain licenses to make, use, sell, offer for sale or import the relevant technologies from the intellectual property’s owner, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • redesign those products that are claimed to be infringing a third party’s intellectual property; or • pursue legal remedies with third parties to enforce our indemnification rights, which may not adequately protect our interests. 27 Table of Contents We have found it necessary to litigate against others, including our customers, to enforce our intellectual property and contractual and commercial rights, as well as to challenge the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others and to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our revenue. Because we sell our services and technologies worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our revenue originating outside the United States as a percentage of our total revenue was 18% in 2008, 18% in 2007 and 22% in 2006. International turmoil, exacerbated by the war in Iraq, the escalating tensions in North Korea and violence in the Middle East, have contributed to an uncertain political and economic climate, both in the United States and globally, which may affect our ability to generate revenue on a predictable basis. In addition, terrorist attacks and the threat of future terrorist attacks both domestically and internationally have negatively impacted the worldwide economy. As we ship products both in the United States and internationally, the threat of future terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business. These conditions make it difficult for us and for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our revenue is derived from customers based in Asia. The economies of Asia have been highly volatile and recessionary in the past, resulting in significant fluctuations in local currencies and other instabilities. Some countries in Asia have recently been affected by infectious diseases. These instabilities continue and may occur again in the future. Our exposure to the business risks presented by the economies of Asia will increase to the extent that we continue to expand our customer base and activities in that region. An outbreak of an infectious disease could result in reduced demand for products incorporating our technologies, extend the qualification periods for our technologies or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could drop unexpectedly. Our common stock has been publicly traded since February 2004. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of technology companies. We have limited liquidity in terms of the number of outstanding shares of our common stock that are publicly traded, which may adversely affect the value of our stock. In addition, we have an ongoing stock repurchase program, which could further decrease our liquidity. As a result, the market price of our common stock may materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 