Item 1A. Risk Factors. Shareholders should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained herein. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.< /font> Risks Relating to General Corporate Matters Business Risks Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse changes occur in our business environment, including the following areas: • general global economic and business conditions, which affect demand for oil and natural gas and, in turn, our business; • our ability to manage risks related to our business and operations; • our ability to compete against companies that provide more services and products than we do, including “integrated service companies”; • our ability to attract and retain skilled, trained personnel to provide technical services and support for our business; • our ability to procure sufficient supplies of materials essential to our business in periods of high demand, and to reduce our commitments for such materials in periods of low demand; 18 Table of Contents • consolidation by our customers, which could result in loss of a customer; and • changes in laws or regulations, including laws relating to the environment or to the oil and gas industry in general, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The Deepwater Horizon drilling rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico, the subsequent oil spill and the resulting enhanced regulations for deepwater drilling offshore the United States may impact our oil and gas business located offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and reduce the need for our services in the Gulf of Mexico. In April 2010, the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig experienced an explosion and fire, and later sank into the Gulf of Mexico. The complete destruction of the Deepwater Horizon rig also resulted in a significant release of crude oil into the Gulf. As a result of this explosion and oil spill, a moratorium was placed on offshore deepwater drilling in the United States, which was subsequently lifted on October 12, 2010 and replaced with enhanced safety standards for offshore deepwater drilling. Under the enhanced safety standards, in order for an operator to resume deepwater drilling, it is required to comply with existing and newly de veloped regulations and standards, including Notice to Lessees (NTL), 2010-N05 (Safety NTL), NTL 2010-N06 (Environmental NTL) and the Interim Final Rule (Drilling Safety Rule), and NTL 210-N10 (Compliance and Evaluation NTL). BOEMRE also plans to conduct inspections of each deepwater drilling operation for compliance with BOEMRE’s regulations, including but not limited to the testing of blow out preventers, before drilling resumes. As companies resume operations, they will also need to comply with the Workplace Safety Rule (SEMS Rule) within the deadlines specified by the regulation. Additionally, each operator must demonstrate that it has enforceable obligations that ensure that containment resources are available promptly in the event of a deepwater blowout, regardless of the company or operator involved. The Department of the Interior has a process underway regarding the establishment of a mechanism relating to the availability of blowout containment resources, and it is expect ed that this mechanism will be implemented in the near future. It is also expected that the BOEMRE will issue further regulations regarding deepwater offshore drilling. Our contracting services business, a significant portion of which is in the Gulf of Mexico, provides development services to newly drilled wells, and therefore relies heavily on the industry’s drilling of new oil and gas wells. In addition, growth in our oil and gas business and any potential disposition of that business will be affected by the ability to develop our portfolio of prospects. Although the moratorium has been lifted, to date no new permits for offshore deepwater drilling have been issued. We can provide no assurance regarding the grant or timing of permits. If permits are not issued or there is a significant delay in issuance, and with respect to our services business, if our vessels are not redeployed to other locations where we can provide our services at a profitable rate, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially affected. The potential increased costs of complying with new regulations on offshore drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico following the Deepwater Horizon rig explosion and potentially in other areas around the world, may impact our oil and gas business and reduce the need for our services in those areas. The Deepwater Horizon rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico and its aftermath has resulted in new regulations in the United States, which may result in substantial increases in costs or delays in drilling or other operations in the Gulf of Mexico, oil and gas projects becoming potentially non-economic, and a corresponding reduced demand for our services. We cannot predict with any certainty the substance or effect of any new or additional regulations in the United States or in other areas around the world. In addition, safety requirements or other governmental regulations could increase our costs of operation of our oil and gas business and impact our ability to divest the assets of that business. Likewise this could also result in increased costs of operating our contracting services business, and our potential consumers’ oil and gas projects becoming non-economic, which could also negatively affect the demand for our contracting services business. If the United States or other countries where we operate enact stricter restrictions on offshore drilling or further regulate offshore drilling or contracting services operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. Government Regulation, including recent legislative initiatives, may affect demand for our services. Numerous federal and state regulations affect our operations. Current regulations are constantly reviewed by the various agencies at the same time that new regulations are being considered and implemented. In addition, because we hold federal leases, the federal government requires us to comply with numerous additional regulations that focus on government contractors. The regulatory burden upon the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business and consequently affects our profitability. Potential legislation and/or regulatory actions could increase our costs and reduce 19 Table of Contents our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Exploration and development activities and the production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulations. Our operations are subject to a variety of national (including federal, state and local) and international laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Numerous domestic and foreign governmental agencies issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws that are often complex and costly to comply with and that carry substantial administrative, civil and possibly criminal penalties for failure to comply. Under these laws and regulations, we may be liable for remediation or removal costs, damages and other costs associated with releases of hazardous materials, including oil into the environment, and such liability may be imposed on us even if the acts that resulted in the releases were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were pe rformed. A variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements and legislative initiatives have been introduced in the domestic and international regions in which we operate that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the “Waxman-Markey Cap-and-Trade legislation,” or “ACESA.” The purpose of ACESA is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States. For legislation to become law, both chambers of U.S. Congress would be required to approve identical legislation. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the Senate may act on climate change legislation, how any bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, or how federal legislation may be reconciled with state and regional requirements. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA that greenhouse gases are an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act and thus subject to future regulation. In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) issued an “endangerment and cause or contribute finding” for greenhouse gases under the federal Clean Air Act, which allowed the EPA to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Since 2009, the EPA has issued regulations that, among other things, require a reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that impose greenhouse gas emission limitations in Clean Air Act permits for certain statio nary sources. Additionally, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas sources in the United States on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 9, 2010, the EPA expanded its greenhouse reporting rule to include onshore petroleum natural gas production, offshore petroleum and natural gas production, onshore natural gas processing, natural gas transmission, underground natural gas storage, liquefied natural gas storage, liquefied natural gas import and export, and natural gas distribution facilities. Under these rules, reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from such facilities is required on an annual basis, with reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions in 2011. These regulatory developments and legislative initiatives may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services, which may in turn adversely affect our future results of operations. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations, or claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources or the environment, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, and thus there can be no assurance that we will not incur significant environmental compliance costs in the future. Such environmental liability could substantially reduce our net income and could have a significant impact on our financial ability to carry out our operations. In 2009, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) issued a proposed modification to its prior rulings regarding the application of the Jones Act to the carriage by foreign flag vessels of items relating to certain offshore activities on the OCS. CBP withdrew the proposed modifications later that year. In early 2010, CBP and its parent agency , Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), initiated a proposed rulemaking that would have been subject to public comment following publication in the Federal Register. The proposed rulemaking would have implemented the same modifications as the CBP 2009 proposal. The agencies subsequently withdrew the proposed rulemaking before it was published in the Federal Register. If DHS or CBP re-proposes a change to the a pplication of the Jones Act similar to that originally proposed by CBP, and such proposal is adopted, this development could potentially lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in instances where we would be required to hire coastwise qualified vessels that we currently do not own, in order to 20 Table of Contents transport certain merchandise to projects on the OCS. This could increase our costs of compliance and doing business and make it more difficult to perform pipelay or well operation services. Beginning in 2011, the federal government has proposed to levy a tax on offshore production and to repeal a number of existing tax preferences for domestic oil and gas producers. The tax preferences include, but are not limited, to the elimination of the immediate expensing of intangible drilling costs, the use of percentage depletion methodology in respect to oil and gas wells, the ability to claim the domestic manufacturing deduction against income derived from oil and gas production and other preference items. The elimination of one or all of these tax preferences may have an adverse impact on our financial results in future years. In addition, it is uncertain as to whether we will be able to recoup these additional tax costs from our customers. Economic downturn and lower oil and natural gas prices could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the oil and gas industry. Certain economic data indicates the United States economy and the worldwide economy may require some time to recover from the recent recession. The consequences of a prolonged period of little or no economic growth will likely result in a lower level of activity and increased uncertainty regarding the direction of energy prices and the capital and commodity markets, which will likely contribute to decreased offshore exploration and drilling. A lower level of offshore exploration and drilling could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services. In addition, a general decline in the level of economic activity might result in lower commodity prices, which may also adversely af fect our revenues from our oil and gas business and indirectly, our service business. The extent of the impact of these factors on our results of operations and cash flow depends on the length and severity of the decreased demand for our services and lower commodity prices. Continued market deterioration could also jeopardize the performance of certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers, customers and financial institutions. Although we assess the creditworthiness of our counterparties, prolonged business decline or disruptions as a result of economic slow down or lower commodity prices could lead to changes in a counterparty’s liquidity and increase our exposure to credit risk and bad debts. In the event any such party fails to perform, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses and our liquidity could be negatively impacted. Lack of access to the credit market could negatively impact our ability to operate our business and to execute our business strategy. Access to financing may be limited and uncertain, especially in times of economic weakness as witnessed in 2008 and 2009. If the capital and credit markets are limited, we may incur increased costs associated with any additional financing we may require for future operations. Additionally, if the capital and credit markets are limited, it could potentially result in our customers curtailing their capital and operating expenditure programs, which could result in a decrease in demand for our vessels and a reduction in fees and/or utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could experience an inability to pay suppliers, including us, in the event they are unable to access the capital markets as needed to fund their business operations. Likewise, our suppliers may be unable to sustain their current level of operatio ns, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations, each of which could adversely affect our operations. Continued lower levels of economic activity and weakness in the credit markets could also adversely affect our ability to implement our strategic objectives and dispose of all or any portion of the oil and gas assets or the production facilities. Our forward-looking statements assume that our lenders, insurers and other financial institutions will be able to fulfill their obligations under our various credit agreements, insurance policies and contracts. If any of our significant financial institutions were unable to perform under such agreements, and if we were unable to find suitable replacements at a reasonable cost, our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Our substantial indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $1.4 billion of consolidated indebtedness outstanding. The significant level of indebtedness may have an adverse effect on our future operations, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements; 21 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to a continued general economic downturn, competition and industry conditions, which could place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; • increasing our exposure to potential rising interest rates because a portion of our current and potential future borrowings are at variable interest rates; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate requirements because we will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to service debt obligations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • limiting our ability to expand our business through capital expenditures or pursuit of acquisition opportunities due to negative covenants in senior secured credit facilities that place annual and aggregate limitations on the types and amounts of investments that we may make, and limiting our ability to use proceeds from asset sales for purposes other than debt repayment (except in certain circumstances where proceeds may be reinvested under criteria set forth in our credit agreements). A prolonged period of weak economic activity may make it increasingly difficult to comply with our covenants and other restrictions in agreements governing our debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by the economic conditions and other events beyond our control. If we fail to comply with these covenants and other restrictions, it could lead to an event of default, the possible acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt and the exercise of certain remedies by the lenders, including foreclosure on our pledged collateral. Our operations outside of the United States subject us to additional risks. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including, without limitation: • the loss of revenue, property and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, acts of terrorism and other political risks; • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our operations, including changes in customs, assessments and procedures, and changes in similar laws and regulations that may affect our ability to move our assets in and out of foreign jurisdictions; • renegotiation or abrogation of contracts with governmental entities; • changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • world economic cycles; • restrictions or quotas on production and commodity sales; • limited market access; and • other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. In addition, laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect our international operations. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. Several of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have. If other companies relocate or acquire vessels for operations in the Gulf of Mexico, North Sea, Asia Pacific or West Africa regions, levels of competition may increase and our business could be adversely affected. In the exploration and production business, some of the larger integrated companies may be better able to respond to industry changes including price fluctuations, oil and gas demand, political change and government regulations. In addition, in a few countries, the national oil companies have formed subsidiaries to provide oilfield services for them, competing with services provided by us. To the extent this practice expands, our business could be adversely impacted. 22 Table of Contents The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Our industry has lost a significant number of experienced professionals over the years due to its cyclical nature, which is attributable, among other reasons, the volatility in commodity prices. Our continued success depends on the active participation of our key employees. The loss of our key people could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the delivery of our products and services require personnel with specialized skills and experience. As a result, our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. Our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in our industry is high, and the supply is limited. In addition, although our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has in the past been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize Gulf of Mexico employees. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our labor force, increases in the wage rates t hat we must pay or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our results of operations could be harmed. We have a history of growing through acquisitions of large assets and acquisitions of companies. We must plan and manage our acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. If we fail to effectively manage current and future acquisitions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth has placed significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management and legal compliance information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. Certain provisions of our corporate documents and Minnesota law may discourage a third party from making a takeover proposal. In addition to the 1,000 shares of preferred stock held by Fletcher International, Ltd. pursuant to the First Amended and Restated Agreement dated January 17, 2003, but effective as of December 31, 2002, by and between Helix and Fletcher International, Ltd., our Articles of Incorporation give our board of directors the authority, without any action by our shareholders, to fix the rights and preferences on up to 4,994,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, including dividend, liquidation and voting rights. In addition, our by-laws divide the board of directors into three classes. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act. We also have employment arrangements with all of our executive officers that require cash payments in the event of a “change of cont rol.” Any or all of the provisions or factors described above may discourage a takeover proposal or tender offer not approved by management and the board of directors and could result in shareholders who may wish to participate in such a proposal or tender offer receiving less for their shares than otherwise might be available in the event of a takeover attempt. Risks Relating to our Contracting Services Operations Our contracting services operations are adversely affected by low oil and gas prices and by the cyclicality of the oil and gas industry. Conditions in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to factors beyond our control. Our contracting services operations are substantially dependent upon the condition of the oil and gas industry, and in particular, the willingness of oil and gas companies to make capital expenditures for offshore exploration, development, drilling and production operations. The level of capital expenditures generally depends on the prevailing view of future oil and gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors affecting the supply and demand for oil and gas, including, but not limited to: • worldwide economic activity; • demand for oil and natural gas, especially in the United States, Europe, China and India; • economic and political conditions in the Middle East and other oil-producing regions; • actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”); • the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; • the cost of offshore exploration for and production and transportation of oil and gas; 23 Table of Contents • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development and production operations; • the sale and expiration dates of offshore leases in the United States and overseas; • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; • weather conditions; • environmental and other governmental regulations; and • tax laws, regulations and policies. A sustained period of low drilling and production activity or lower commodity prices would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The operation of marine vessels is risky, and we do not have insurance coverage for all risks. Marine construction involves a high degree of operational risk. Hazards, such as vessels sinking, grounding, colliding and sustaining damage from severe weather conditions, are inherent in marine operations. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. Insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable. As a result of market conditions , premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts and limitations for wind storm damages. As construction activity expands into deeper water in the Gulf of Mexico and other deepwater basins of the world and with our divestiture of Cal Dive, a greater percentage of our revenues will be from deepwater construction projects that are larger and more complex, and thus riskier, than shallow water projects. As a result, our revenues and profits are increasingly dependent on our larger vessels. The current insurance on our vessels, in some cases, is in amounts approximating book value, which could be less than replacement value. In the event of property loss due to a catastrophic marine disaster, mechanical failure, co llision or other event, insurance may not cover a substantial loss of revenues, increased costs and other liabilities, and therefore, the loss of any of our large vessels could have a material adverse effect on us. Our contracting business typically declines in winter, and bad weather in the Gulf of Mexico or North Sea can adversely affect our operations. Marine operations conducted in the Gulf of Mexico and North Sea are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. Historically, we have enjoyed our highest vessel utilization rates during the summer and fall when weather conditions are favorable for offshore exploration, development and construction activities. We typically have experienced our lowest utilization rates in the first quarter. As is common in the industry, we typically bear the risk of delays caused by some adverse weather conditions. Accordingly, our results in any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico and North Sea experience unfavorable weather conditions including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Substantially all of our facilities and assets offshore and along the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea, including our vessels and structures on our offshore oil and gas properties, are susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially cause us to curtail both service and production operations for significant periods of time until damage can be assessed and repaired. Moreover, even if we do not experience direct damage from any of these storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations because customers may curtail their development activities due to damage to their platforms, pipelin es and other related facilities. If we bid too low on a turnkey contract, we suffer adverse economic consequences. A significant amount of our projects are performed on a qualified turnkey basis where described work is delivered for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is billed separately. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, the performance of third parties such as equipment suppliers, or other factors. These variations and risks inherent in the marine construction industry may result in our experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Oil and Gas Operations Exploration and production of oil and natural gas is a high-risk activity and is subject to a variety of factors that we cannot control. Our oil and gas business is subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally associated with the exploration for and development and production of oil and natural gas, including uncertainties as to the presence, size and recoverability of hydrocarbons. We may not encounter commercially productive oil and natural gas reservoirs. We may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells. The presence of unanticipated pressures or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our drilling activities to be unsuccessful and/or result in a total loss of our investment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells. Projecting future natural gas and oil production is imprecise. Producing oil and gas reservoirs eventually have declining production rates. Projections of production rates rely on certain assumptions regarding historical production patterns in the area or formation tests for a particular producing horizon. Actual production rates could differ materially from such projections. Production rates also can depend on a number of additional factors, including commodity prices, market demand and the political, economic and regulatory climate. Our business is subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including: • fires; • title problems; • explosions; • pressures and irregularities in formations; • equipment availability; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of underground natural gas, oil and formation water; • natural events and natural disasters, such as loop currents, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these events occurs, we could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties, suspension of our operations and repairs to resume operations. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile, which makes future revenue uncertain. Our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations depend in part on the prices we receive for the oil and gas we produce. The market prices for oil and gas are subject to fluctuation in response to events beyond our control, such as: • supply of and demand for oil and gas; • market uncertainty; • worldwide political and economic instability; and • government regulations. Oil and gas prices have historically been volatile, and such volatility is likely to continue. Our ability to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition or disposition, and to budget and project the financial returns of exploration and development projects is made more difficult by this volatility. In addition, to the extent we do not forward sell or enter into costless collars or swap financial contracts in order to hedge our exposure to price volatility, a dramatic decline in such prices could have a substantial and material effect on: 25 Table of Contents • our revenues; • results of operations; • cashflow; • financial condition; • our ability to increase production and grow reserves in an economically efficient manner; and • our access to capital. If the prices for crude oil and natural gas decrease from current levels, and we have not entered into additional forward sale or financial hedge contracts to stabilize our cash flows, our oil and gas revenues may decrease in 2011 and beyond, perhaps significantly, absent offsetting increases in production amounts. Our commodity price risk management related to some of our oil and gas production may reduce our potential gains from increases in oil and gas prices. Oil and gas prices can fluctuate significantly and have a direct impact on our revenues. To manage our exposure to the risks inherent in such a volatile market, from time to time we have forward sold for future physical delivery a portion of our future production. This means that a portion of our production is sold at a fixed price as a shield against dramatic price declines that could occur in the market. We have hedged a significant portion of our anticipated production for 2011 and some natural gas production for 2012 with swap financial contracts. We may from time to time engage in other hedging activities. These hedging activities may limit our benefit from commodity price increases. We are vulnerable to risks associated with the Gulf of Mexico because we currently operate exclusively in that area and our proved reserves are concentrated in a limited number of fields. Our concentration of oil and gas properties in the Gulf of Mexico makes us more vulnerable to the risks associated with operating in that area than our competitors with more geographically diverse operations. These risks include: • tropical storms and hurricanes, which are common in the Gulf of Mexico during certain times of the year; • extensive governmental regulation (including regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage); and • interruption or termination of operations by governmental authorities based on environmental, safety or other considerations. Any event affecting this area in which we operate our oil and gas properties may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. We also may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. All of our estimated proved reserves are located in the Gulf of Mexico and we have one field, Bushwood located at Garden Banks Blocks 462, 463, 506 and 507, that represents approximately 36% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2010. If the proved reserves at Bushwood are affected by any combination of adverse factors our future estimates of proved reserves could be decreased, perhaps significantly, which may have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and cash flows. Separately, without Bushwood’s future reserve potential, the value that we may be able to realize in any potential disposition of our oil and gas business would likely be significantly diminished. In February 2011, our average daily production from the Phoenix field located at Green Cany on Blocks 236, 237, 238 and 282 was approximately 9,500 barrels of oil and 15 MMcf of natural gas (or approximately 72 MMcfe per day), net to our interest, which represents approximately 57% of our daily oil production and 45% of our daily total production for the month. If an adverse event were to occur to our wells or the HP I, which serves as the processing unit for the field’s production, our results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. Estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves depend on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates. Any material change in those conditions, or other factors affecting those assumptions, could impair the quantity and value of our crude oil and natural gas reserves. This Annual Report contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows therefrom based upon reports for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, prepared by independent 26 Table of Contents petroleum engineers. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC, as to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, asset retirement costs, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, cash flows, development and production expenditures, operating expenses and asset retirement costs and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary from those estimated in these reports. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our proved reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves referred to in this Annual Report is the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the average of oil and gas prices on the first day of the month for the past twelve months and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate. In addition, if costs of abandonment are materially greater than our estimates, they could have an adverse effect on financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Approximately 81% of our total estimated proved reserves are either PDNP, PDSI or PUD and those reserves may not ultimately be produced or developed. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 17% of our total estimated proved reserves were PDNP, 4% were PDSI and approximately 61% were PUD. These reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Furthermore, not all of our PUD or PDNP may be ultimately produced during the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Reserve replacement may not offset depletion. Oil and gas properties are depleting assets. We replace reserves through acquisitions, exploration and exploitation of current properties. Approximately 81% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2010 are PUD, PDSI and PDNP. Further, our proved producing reserves at December 31, 2010 are expected to experience annual decline rates ranging from 30% to 40% over the next ten years. If we are unable to acquire additional properties or if we are unable to find additional reserves through exploration or exploitation of our properties, our future cash flows from oil and gas operations could decrease. We are, in part, dependent on third parties with respect to the transportation of our oil and gas production and in certain cases, third party operators who influence our productivity. Notwithstanding our ability to produce hydrocarbons, we are dependent on third party transporters to bring our oil and gas production to the market. In the event a third party transporter experiences operational difficulties, due to force majeure including weather damage, pipeline shut-ins, or otherwise, this can directly influence our ability to sell commodities that we are able to produce. In addition, with respect to oil and gas projects that we do not operate, we have limited influence over operations, including limited control over the maintenance of safety and environmental standards. The operators of those properties may, depending on the terms of the applicable joint operating agreement: • refuse to initiate exploration or development projects; • initiate exploration or development projects on a slower or faster schedule than we would prefer; • delay the pace of exploratory drilling or development; and/or • drill more wells or build more facilities on a project than we can afford, whether on a cash basis or through financing, which may limit our participation in those projects or limit the percentage of our revenues from those projects. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our anticipated exploration and development activities. Our oil and gas operations involve significant risks, and we do not have insurance coverage for all risks. Our oil and gas operations are subject to risks incident to the operation of oil and gas wells, including, but not limited to, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids into the environment, blowouts, cratering, mechanical difficulties, fires, explosions or other physical damage, pollution and other risks, any of which could result in substantial 27 Table of Contents losses to us. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. As a result, any damage not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Other Risks Other risk factors could cause actual results to be different from the results we expect. The market price for our common stock, as well as other companies in the oil and natural gas industry, has been historically volatile, which could restrict our access to capital markets in the future. Other risks and uncertainties may be detailed from time to time in our filings with the SEC. Many of these risks are beyond our control. In addition, future trends for pricing, margins, revenue and profitability remain difficult to predict in the industries we serve and under current market, economic and political conditions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except as required by applicable law, we do not assume any responsibility to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 