Item 1A. Risk Factors. Shareholders should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information contained herein. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Risks Relating to General Corporate Matters Business Risks Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our business assumptions do not prove to be accurate or if adverse changes occur in our business environment, including the following areas: • general global economic and business conditions, which affect demand for oil and natural gas and, in turn, our business; • our ability to manage risks related to our business and operations; • our ability to compete against companies that provide more services and products than we do, including “integrated service companies”; 18 Table of Contents • our ability to attract and retain skilled, trained personnel to provide technical services and support for our business; • our ability to procure sufficient supplies of materials essential to our business in periods of high demand, and to reduce our commitments for such materials in periods of low demand; • consolidation by our customers, which could result in loss of a customer; and • changes in laws or regulations, including laws relating to the environment or to the oil and gas industry in general, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Economic downturn and lower oil and natural gas prices could negatively impact our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the oil and gas industry. Certain economic data indicates the United States economy and the worldwide economy may require some time to recover from the recent downturn. The consequences of a prolonged period of economic decline or little or no economic growth will likely result in a lower level of economic activity and increased uncertainty regarding the direction of energy prices and the capital and commodity markets, which will likely contribute to decreased offshore exploration and drilling. A lower level of offshore exploration and drilling could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our services. In addition, a general decline in the level of economic activity might result in lower commodity prices, which may also adversely affect our revenues from our oil and gas business and indirectly, our service business. The extent of the impact of these factors on our results of operations and cash flow depends on the length and severity of the decreased demand for our services and lower commodity prices. Continued market deterioration could also jeopardize the performance of certain counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers, customers and financial institutions. Although we assess the creditworthiness of our counterparties, prolonged business decline or disruptions as a result of economic slow down or lower commodity prices could lead to changes in a counterparty’s liquidity and increase our exposure to credit risk and bad debts. In the event any such party fails to perform, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses and our liquidity could be negatively impacted. Lack of access to the credit market could negatively impact our ability to operate our business and to execute our business strategy. Due to the changes in the global credit market during fiscal 2009, there has been deterioration in the credit and capital markets and access to financing is limited and uncertain. If the capital and credit markets continue to experience weakness and the availability of funds remains limited, we may incur increased costs associated with any additional financing we may require for future operations. Because of uncertainty in the market and an inability to access the capital markets our customers may curtail their capital and operating expenditure programs, which could result in a decrease in demand for our vessels and a reduction in fees and/or utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could experience an inability to pay suppliers, including us, in the event they are unable to access the capital markets as needed to fund their business operations. Likewise, our suppliers may be unable to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations, each of which could adversely affect our operations. Continued lower levels of economic activity and weakness in the credit markets could also adversely affect our ability to implement our strategic objectives and dispose of all or any portion of the oil and gas assets or the production facilities. In addition, some financial institutions and insurance companies have reported significant deterioration in their financial condition during fiscal 2009. Our forward-looking statements assume that our lenders, insurers and other financial institutions will be able to fulfill their obligations under our various credit agreements, insurance policies and contracts. If any of our significant financial institutions were unable to perform under such agreements, and if we were unable to find suitable replacements at a reasonable cost, our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could impair our financial condition and our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1.4 billion of consolidated indebtedness outstanding. The significant level of indebtedness may have an adverse effect on our future operations, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to a continued general economic downturn, competition and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged; • increasing our exposure to potential rising interest rates because a portion of our current and potential future borrowings are at variable interest rates; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate requirements because we will be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to service debt obligations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • limiting our ability to expand our business through capital expenditures or pursuit of acquisition opportunities due to negative covenants in senior secured credit facilities that place annual and aggregate limitations on the types and amounts of investments that we may make, and limiting our ability to use proceeds from asset sales for purposes other than debt repayment (except in certain circumstances where proceeds may be reinvested under criteria set forth in our credit agreements). A continuing period of weak economic activity may make it increasingly difficult to comply with our covenants and other restrictions in agreements governing our debt. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions is affected by the current economic conditions and other events beyond our control. If we fail to comply with these covenants and other restrictions, it could lead to an event of default, the possible acceleration of our repayment of outstanding debt and the exercise of certain remedies by the lenders, including foreclosure on our pledged collateral. Our operations outside of the United States subject us to additional risks. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including, without limitation: • the loss of revenue, property and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, acts of terrorism and other political risks; • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our operations; • renegotiation or abrogation of contracts with governmental entities; • changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; • currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; • world economic cycles; • restrictions or quotas on production and commodity sales; • limited market access; and • other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. In addition, laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect our international operations. Our ability to market oil and natural gas discovered or produced in any future foreign operations, and the price we could obtain for such production, depends on many factors beyond our control, including: • ready markets for oil and natural gas; • the proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation facilities; • fluctuating demand for crude oil and natural gas; • the availability and cost of competing fuels; and • the effects of foreign governmental regulation of oil and gas production and sales. 20 Table of Contents Pipeline and processing facilities do not exist in certain areas of exploration and, therefore, any actual sales of our production could be delayed for extended periods of time until such facilities are constructed. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The businesses in which we operate are highly competitive. Several of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have. If other companies relocate or acquire vessels for operations in the Gulf of Mexico, North Sea, West Africa or Asia Pacific regions, levels of competition may increase and our business could be adversely affected. In the exploration and production business, some of the larger integrated companies may be better able to respond to industry changes including price fluctuations, oil and gas demand, political change and government regulations. In addition, in a few countries, the national oil companies have formed subsidiaries to provide oilfield services for them, competing with services provided by us. To the extent this practice expands, our business could be adversely impacted. Government Regulation, including recent legislative initiatives, may affect demand for our services. Numerous federal and state regulations affect our operations. Current regulations are constantly reviewed by the various agencies at the same time that new regulations are being considered and implemented. In addition, because we hold federal leases, the federal government requires us to comply with numerous additional regulations that focus on government contractors. The regulatory burden upon the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business and consequently affects our profitability. Potential legislation and/or regulatory actions could increase our costs and reduce our liquidity, delay our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business. Exploration and development activities and the production and sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulations. Our operations are subject to a variety of national (including federal, state and local) and international laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Numerous domestic and foreign governmental agencies issue rules and regulations to implement and enforce such laws that are often complex and costly to comply with and that carry substantial administrative, civil and possibly criminal penalties for failure to comply. Under these laws and regulations, we may be liable for remediation or removal costs, damages and other costs associated with releases of hazardous materials, including oil into the environment, and such liability may be imposed on us even if the acts that resulted in the releases were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time such acts were performed. A variety of regulatory developments, proposals or requirements and legislative initiatives have been introduced in the domestic and international regions in which we operate that are focused on restricting the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved adoption of the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” also known as the “Waxman-Markey Cap-and-Trade legislation,” or “ACESA.” The purpose of ACESA is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States. For legislation to become law, both chambers of U.S. Congress would be required to approve identical legislation. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the Senate may act on climate change legislation, how any bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, or how federal legislation may be reconciled with state and regional requirements. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA that greenhouse gases are an “air pollutant” under the federal Clean Air Act and thus subject to future regulation. In December 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) issued an “endangerment and cause or contribute finding” for greenhouse gases under the federal Clean Air Act, which will allow the EPA to draft rules that directly regulate greenhouse gas emissions. Recently, the EPA issued the Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule. This rule became effective December 29, 2009 and will require the collection of information beginning in January 2010 with annual reporting to begin in 2011 for covered facilities. The rule requires reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from large sources and suppliers in 21 Table of Contents the United States and the EPA has stated that it will use the information to guide development of the policies and programs to reduce emissions. These regulatory developments and legislative initiatives may curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our products and services, which may in turn adversely affect our future results of operations. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations, or claims for damages to persons, property, natural resources or the environment, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, and thus there can be no assurance that we will not incur significant environmental compliance costs in the future. Such environmental liability could substantially reduce our net income and could have a significant impact on our financial ability to carry out our operations. In 2009, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”) issued a proposed modification to its prior rulings regarding the application of the Jones Act to the carriage by foreign flag vessels of items relating to certain offshore activities on the OCS. While CBP subsequently withdrew these proposed modifications, we are aware that the parent agency of CBP, the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), may be preparing a notice of proposed rulemaking respecting the same subject matter. If DHS proposes a change to the application of the Jones Act similar to that originally proposed by CBP, and such proposal is adopted, this development could potentially lead to operational delays or increased operating costs in instances where we would be required to hire coastwise qualified vessels that we currently do not own, in order to transport certain merchandise to projects on the OCS. This could increase our costs of compliance and doing business and make it more difficult to perform pipelay or well operation services. Beginning in 2011, the federal government has proposed to levy a tax on offshore production and to repeal a number of existing tax preferences for domestic oil and gas producers. The tax preferences include, but are not limited, to the elimination of the immediate expensing of intangible drilling costs, the use of percentage depletion methodology in respect to oil and gas wells, the ability to claim the domestic manufacturing deduction against income derived from oil and gas production and other preference items. The elimination of one or all of these tax preferences may have an adverse impact on our financial results in future years. In addition, it is uncertain as to whether we will be able to recoup these additional tax costs from our customers. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Our industry has lost a significant number of experienced professionals over the years due to, among other reasons, the volatility in commodity prices. Our continued success depends on the active participation of our key employees. The loss of our key people could adversely affect our operations. In addition, the delivery of our products and services require personnel with specialized skills and experience. As a result, our ability to remain productive and profitable will depend upon our ability to employ and retain skilled workers. Our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers in our industry is high, and the supply is limited. In addition, although our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the marine services industry has in the past been targeted by maritime labor unions in an effort to organize Gulf of Mexico employees. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers or the unionization of our Gulf of Mexico employees could result in a reduction of our labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay or both. If either of these events were to occur, our capacity and profitability could be diminished and our growth potential could be impaired. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our results of operations could be harmed. We have a history of growing through acquisitions of large assets and acquisitions of companies. We must plan and manage our acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. If we fail to effectively manage current and future acquisitions, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth has placed significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. We must continue to improve our operational, financial, management and legal compliance information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. 22 Table of Contents Certain provisions of our corporate documents and Minnesota law may discourage a third party from making a takeover proposal. In addition to the 6,000 shares of preferred stock held by Fletcher International, Ltd. pursuant to the First Amended and Restated Agreement dated January 17, 2003, but effective as of December 31, 2002, by and between Helix and Fletcher International, Ltd., our Articles of Incorporation give our board of directors the authority, without any action by our shareholders, to fix the rights and preferences on up to 4,994,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, including dividend, liquidation and voting rights. In addition, our by-laws divide the board of directors into three classes. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act. We also have employment arrangements with all of our executive officers that require cash payments in the event of a “change of control.” Any or all of the provisions or factors described above may discourage a takeover proposal or tender offer not approved by management and the board of directors and could result in shareholders who may wish to participate in such a proposal or tender offer receiving less for their shares than otherwise might be available in the event of a takeover attempt. Risks Relating to our Contracting Services Operations Our contracting services operations are adversely affected by low oil and gas prices and by the cyclicality of the oil and gas industry. Conditions in the oil and natural gas industry are subject to factors beyond our control. Our contracting services operations are substantially dependent upon the condition of the oil and gas industry, and in particular, the willingness of oil and gas companies to make capital expenditures for offshore exploration, development, drilling and production operations. The level of capital expenditures generally depends on the prevailing view of future oil and gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors affecting the supply and demand for oil and gas, including, but not limited to: • worldwide economic activity; • demand for oil and natural gas, especially in the United States, China and India; • economic and political conditions in the Middle East and other oil-producing regions; • actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”); • the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; • the cost of offshore exploration for and production and transportation of oil and gas; • the ability of oil and natural gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development and production operations; • the sale and expiration dates of offshore leases in the United States and overseas; • technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; • weather conditions; • environmental and other governmental regulations; and • tax laws, regulations and policies. A sustained period of low drilling and production activity or lower commodity prices would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The operation of marine vessels is risky, and we do not have insurance coverage for all risks. Marine construction involves a high degree of operational risk. Hazards, such as vessels sinking, grounding, colliding and sustaining damage from severe weather conditions, are inherent in marine operations. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. Insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or against all hazards to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates that we consider reasonable. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially and could escalate further. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. For example, insurance carriers are now requiring broad exclusions for losses due to war risk and terrorist acts and limitations for wind storm damages. As construction activity expands into deeper water in the Gulf of Mexico and other deepwater basins of the world and with our divestiture of Cal Dive, a greater percentage of our revenues will be from deepwater construction projects that are larger and more complex, and thus riskier, 23 Table of Contents than shallow water projects. As a result, our revenues and profits are increasingly dependent on our larger vessels. The current insurance on our vessels, in some cases, is in amounts approximating book value, which could be less than replacement value. In the event of property loss due to a catastrophic marine disaster, mechanical failure, collision or other event, insurance may not cover a substantial loss of revenues, increased costs and other liabilities, and therefore, the loss of any of our large vessels could have a material adverse effect on us. Our contracting business typically declines in winter, and bad weather in the Gulf of Mexico or North Sea can adversely affect our operations. Marine operations conducted in the Gulf of Mexico and North Sea are seasonal and depend, in part, on weather conditions. Historically, we have enjoyed our highest vessel utilization rates during the summer and fall when weather conditions are favorable for offshore exploration, development and construction activities. We typically have experienced our lowest utilization rates in the first quarter. As is common in the industry, we typically bear the risk of delays caused by some adverse weather conditions. Accordingly, our results in any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of annual results or continuing trends. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico and North Sea experience unfavorable weather conditions including hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Substantially all of our facilities and assets offshore and along the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea, including our vessels and structures on our offshore oil and gas properties, are susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially cause us to curtail both service and production operations for significant periods of time until damage can be assessed and repaired. Moreover, even if we do not experience direct damage from any of these storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations because customers may curtail their development activities due to damage to their platforms, pipelines and other related facilities. If we bid too low on a turnkey contract, we suffer adverse economic consequences. A significant amount of our projects are performed on a qualified turnkey basis where described work is delivered for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is billed separately. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in offshore job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, the performance of third parties such as equipment suppliers, or other factors. These variations and risks inherent in the marine construction industry may result in our experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects. Risks Relating to our Oil and Gas Operations Exploration and production of oil and natural gas is a high-risk activity and is subject to a variety of factors that we cannot control. Our oil and gas business is subject to all of the risks and uncertainties normally associated with the exploration for and development and production of oil and natural gas, including uncertainties as to the presence, size and recoverability of hydrocarbons. We may not encounter commercially productive oil and natural gas reservoirs. We may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells. The presence of unanticipated pressures or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our drilling activities to be unsuccessful and/or result in a total loss of our investment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells. Projecting future natural gas and oil production is imprecise. Producing oil and gas reservoirs eventually have declining production rates. Projections of production rates rely on certain assumptions regarding historical production patterns in the area or formation tests for a particular producing horizon. Actual production rates could differ materially from such projections. Production rates also can depend on a number of additional factors, including commodity prices, market demand and the political, economic and regulatory climate. Our business is subject to all of the operating risks associated with drilling for and producing oil and natural gas, including: 24 Table of Contents • fires; • title problems; • explosions; • pressures and irregularities in formations; • equipment availability; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of underground natural gas, oil and formation water; • natural events and natural disasters, such as loop currents, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • pipe or cement failures; • casing collapses; • lost or damaged oilfield drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. If any of these events occurs, we could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties, suspension of our operations and repairs to resume operations. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile, which makes future revenue uncertain. Our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations depend in part on the prices we receive for the oil and gas we produce. The market prices for oil and gas are subject to fluctuation in response to events beyond our control, such as: • supply of and demand for oil and gas; • market uncertainty; • worldwide political and economic instability; and • government regulations. Oil and gas prices have historically been volatile, and such volatility is likely to continue. Our ability to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition or disposition, and to budget and project the financial returns of exploration and development projects is made more difficult by this volatility. In addition, to the extent we do not forward sell or enter into costless collars or swap contracts in order to hedge our exposure to price volatility, a dramatic decline in such prices could have a substantial and material effect on: • our revenues; • results of operations; • cashflow; • financial condition; • our ability to increase production and grow reserves in an economically efficient manner; and • our access to capital. If the prices for crude oil and natural gas decrease from current levels, and we have not entered into additional forward sale or financial hedge contracts to stabilize our cash flows, our oil and gas revenues may decrease in 2010 and beyond, perhaps significantly, absent offsetting increases in production amounts. Our commodity price risk management related to some of our oil and gas production may reduce our potential gains from increases in oil and gas prices. Oil and gas prices can fluctuate significantly and have a direct impact on our revenues. To manage our exposure to the risks inherent in such a volatile market, from time to time we have forward sold for future physical delivery a portion of our future production. This means that a portion of our production is sold at a fixed price as a shield against dramatic price declines that could occur in the market. We have hedged over 50% of our anticipated production for 2010 with a combination of costless collar and swap financial contracts. We may from time to time engage in other hedging activities that limit our upside potential from price increases. These hedging activities may limit our benefit from commodity price increases. 25 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to risks associated with the Gulf of Mexico because we currently operate almost exclusively in that area and our proved reserves are concentrated in a limited number of fields. Our concentration of oil and gas properties in the Gulf of Mexico makes us more vulnerable to the risks associated with operating in that area than our competitors with more geographically diverse operations. These risks include: • tropical storms and hurricanes, which are common in the Gulf of Mexico during certain times of the year; • extensive governmental regulation (including regulations that may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage); and • interruption or termination of operations by governmental authorities based on environmental, safety or other considerations. Any event affecting this area in which we operate our oil and gas properties may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. We also may incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, approximately 98% of our estimated proved reserves are located in the Gulf of Mexico and we have one field, Bushwood located at Garden Banks Blocks 462, 463, 506 and 507, that represents approximately half of our total estimated proved reserves and related estimated discounted future net revenues as of December 31, 2009. If the proved reserves at Bushwood are affected by any combination of adverse factors our future estimates of proved reserves could be decreased, perhaps significantly, which may have an adverse effect on our future results of operations and cash flows. Separately, without Bushwood’s future reserve potential, the value that we may be able to realize in any potential disposition of our oil and gas business would likely be significantly diminished. Estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves depend on many factors and assumptions, including various assumptions that are based on conditions in existence as of the dates of the estimates. Any material change in those conditions, or other factors affecting those assumptions, could impair the quantity and value of our crude oil and natural gas reserves. This Annual Report contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows therefrom based upon reports for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, prepared and/or audited by our independent petroleum engineers. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC, as to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, abandonment costs, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, cash flows, development and production expenditures, operating and abandonment expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary from those estimated in these reports. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of our proved reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves referred to in this Annual Report is the current market value of our estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the average of oil and gas prices on the first day of the month for the past twelve months and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the net present value estimate. In addition, if costs of abandonment are materially greater than our estimates, they could have an adverse effect on financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Approximately 85% of our total estimated proved reserves are either PDNP, PDSI or PUD and those reserves may not ultimately be produced or developed. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 17% of our total estimated proved reserves were PDNP, 5% were PDSI and approximately 63% were PUD. These reserves may not ultimately be developed or produced. Furthermore, not all of our PUD or PDNP may be ultimately produced during the time periods we have planned, at the costs we have budgeted, or at all, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Reserve replacement may not offset depletion. Oil and gas properties are depleting assets. We replace reserves through acquisitions, exploration and exploitation of current properties. Approximately 85% of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 are PUD, PDSI and PDNP. Further, our proved producing reserves at December 31, 2009 are expected to experience annual decline rates ranging from 30% to 40% over the next ten years. If we are unable to acquire additional properties or if we are unable to find additional reserves through exploration or exploitation of our properties, our future cash flows from oil and gas operations could decrease. We are, in part, dependent on third parties with respect to the transportation of our oil and gas production and in certain cases, third party operators who influence our productivity. Notwithstanding our ability to produce hydrocarbons, we are dependent on third party transporters to bring our oil and gas production to the market. In the event a third party transporter experiences operational difficulties, due to force majeure including weather damage, pipeline shut-ins, or otherwise, this can directly influence our ability to sell commodities that we are able to produce. In addition, with respect to oil and gas projects that we do not operate, we have limited influence over operations, including limited control over the maintenance of safety and environmental standards. The operators of those properties may, depending on the terms of the applicable joint operating agreement: • refuse to initiate exploration or development projects; • initiate exploration or development projects on a slower or faster schedule than we would prefer; • delay the pace of exploratory drilling or development; and/or • drill more wells or build more facilities on a project than we can afford, whether on a cash basis or through financing, which may limit our participation in those projects or limit the percentage of our revenues from those projects. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our anticipated exploration and development activities. Our oil and gas operations involve significant risks, and we do not have insurance coverage for all risks. Our oil and gas operations are subject to risks incident to the operation of oil and gas wells, including, but not limited to, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas, brine or well fluids into the environment, blowouts, cratering, mechanical difficulties, fires, explosions or other physical damage, pollution and other risks, any of which could result in substantial losses to us. We maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. As a result, any damage not covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Other Risks Other risk factors could cause actual results to be different from the results we expect. The market price for our common stock, as well as other companies in the oil and natural gas industry, has been historically volatile, which could restrict our access to capital markets in the future. Other risks and uncertainties may be detailed from time to time in our filings with the SEC. Many of these risks are beyond our control. In addition, future trends for pricing, margins, revenue and profitability remain difficult to predict in the industries we serve and under current market, economic and political conditions. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except as required by applicable law, we do not assume any responsibility to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 27 Table of Contents 