Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Because we have a limited amount of revenues and a history of losses, we may be unable to continue operations unless we can generate sufficient operating income by completing the development of, and the successful marketing of, our products. Since we emerged from bankruptcy on September 26, 2003, we have sustained operating losses. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, we had revenues of $2,776,000 and $436,000, respectively, and as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $33,112,000 and $21,562,000, respectively. We expect sales of our products to increase in 2008. Our ability to generate revenue is, however, dependent on receiving purchase commitments from customers as well as the timing of such purchase commitments that are received. Our ability to generate revenue is also dependent on our ability to preserve the customer relationships that were developed by LED Holdings and our ability to continue selling our products to this group of customers as well as to other potential customers in the markets served by these customer relationships. Further, our ability to generate revenue for the remainder of 2008 on certain of our products is partially dependent on the length of time required to obtain appropriate UL or other certifications required by potential customers. 3 Table of Contents It is difficult to evaluate the likelihood that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We have recently made the transition from a development stage company to one that is focusing on sales and growth in the lighting industry marketplace. Accordingly, we have not yet achieved sustained profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. As we concentrate on commercializing our products, our limited operating history makes an evaluation of our future prospects difficult. If we do not achieve sufficient growth in our revenues and achieve and sustain profitability in the future, we will be unable to continue operations. If we are unable to obtain outside sufficient capital when needed, our business and future prospects will or could be adversely affected and we could be forced to suspend or discontinue operations. Although we believe our current cash balances together with revenues received from the sale of our products will be sufficient to meet our operating needs during 2008, the actual amount of funds that we will need will be determined by several factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the timing and volume of sales transactions, market acceptance of our products, the success of our research and development efforts (including any unanticipated delays), the costs and timing of obtaining new patent rights, regulatory changes, competition, technological developments in the market, evolving industry standards, the amount of working capital investments we are required to make, and the costs required for us to litigate and ultimately resolve the lawsuits with Philips Solid State Lighting Solutions, Inc., Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., and Philips Electronics North America Corporation. Potential sources of outside capital include entering strategic business relationships, bank borrowings, public or private sales of shares of our capital stock or debt or other similar arrangements. We do not have any committed sources of outside capital at this time. It is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain outside capital when we need it or on terms that would be acceptable. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are unable to obtain sufficient outside capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to suspend or discontinue operations. If we are unable to integrate the assets of LED Holdings into our operations, our business and future prospects will or could be adversely affected. The integration of the recently acquired assets of LED Holdings including, among other things, leases, equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, contracts, permits, records, and intellectual property, may be difficult and may lead to adverse effects. The success of the integration will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the assets of LED Holdings with our business. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depend upon the successful integration of the assets of LED Holdings. The integration process may be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining the assets of the companies include, among others: • consolidating research and development operations, where appropriate; • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions; • preserving the important research and development, manufacturing and supply, distribution, marketing, customer and other relationships of LED Holdings; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. We may not accomplish this integration smoothly or successfully. The diversion of the attention of management from its current operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of the assets of LED Holdings and adversely affect our other operations. 4 Table of Contents If our Optimized Digital Lighting technology does not achieve market acceptance, prospects for our growth and profitability may be limited. Our future success depends on market acceptance of our LED and Optimized Digital Lighting (“ODL”) technology. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt solid-state lighting as an alternative to traditional lighting technology because of its higher initial cost or perceived risks relating to its novelty, reliability, usefulness, light quality, and cost-effectiveness when compared to other lighting sources available in the market. If acceptance of solid-state lighting in general, and of our ODL lighting systems in particular, does not continue to grow within the high performance lighting markets that we serve, and in the markets that we intend to serve through future customers, then opportunities to increase our revenues and operate profitably may be limited. Our business strategy includes penetration of the general lighting market with our lighting products. Failure to obtain and incorporate into our products, on a timely basis, LEDs having satisfactory performance, quality and cost characteristics could delay our planned introduction of new products, or reduce the attractiveness to potential customers of our products in the general lighting market. In addition, the characteristics of our ODL technology that we believe are desired by customers in the high performance color lighting markets that we currently serve may not provide us with competitive advantages in the general lighting market. For example, end users in the general lighting market may not require the complex, dynamic lighting effects or sophisticated digital control that our systems provide. Similarly, if LED manufacturers are able to develop single LEDs that produce light of acceptable consistency and color, our color temperature control technologies may be of less importance in the general lighting market than in the high performance color lighting market. Because we rely upon Govi Rao, Ken Honeycutt, Kevin Furry, Frederic S. Maxik and other key personnel, a loss of any key personnel could prevent or significantly delay the achievement of our goals. Our success will depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued service of key personnel. The loss of Govi Rao, our chairman and chief executive officer, Ken Honeycutt, our president and chief operating officer, Kevin Furry, our chief technology officer, Frederic S. Maxik, our chief scientific officer, or other key personnel could prevent or significantly delay the achievement of our goals. We have employment agreements with each of Messrs. Rao, Honeycutt, Furry and Maxik. We maintain a key man life insurance policy with respect to Mr. Rao, Mr. Furry, Mr. Maxik and other key management staff as determined by the board of directors. If any of these persons were to leave us, it could delay implementation of our business plan and marketing efforts. If we continue to grow, we will need to add additional management and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our efforts to obtain or retain such personnel may not be successful. If critical components and raw materials that we utilize in our products become unavailable, we may incur delays in shipment that could damage our business. We depend on our suppliers for certain standard electronic components as well as custom components critical to the manufacture of our solid-state lighting systems. For certain types of LEDs used in our lighting systems, we currently have a limited number of suppliers. We depend on our vendors to supply in a timely manner critical components in adequate quantities and consistent quality and at reasonable costs. Finding a suitable alternate supply of required components and obtaining them in needed quantities may be a time-consuming process and we may not be able to find an adequate alternative source of supply at an acceptable cost. Because we generally rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, we cannot predict with certainty our ability to obtain components in adequate quantities and at acceptable prices in the longer term. If we are unable to obtain components in adequate quantities, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet demand for our products, which could damage our reputation with customers and prospective customers. 5 Table of Contents The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our LED components and sensor assemblies are silicon wafers, gold wire, lead frames, and a variety of packages and substrates, including metal, printed circuit board, flex circuits, ceramic and plastic packages. All of these raw materials can be obtained from several suppliers. From time to time, particularly during periods of increased industry-wide demand, silicon wafers and other materials have been in short supply. Any significant interruption in the supply of these raw materials could have a material adverse effect upon us. If the companies to which we outsource the manufacture of our products fail to meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness, our revenues and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. We outsource a significant portion of the manufacture and assembly of our products. We currently depend on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products at plants in various locations throughout the world. These manufacturers supply a significant portion of the necessary raw materials (other than certain critical components such as LEDs, which we procure directly) and may provide the necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. We do not have long-term contracts with these manufacturers. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture and ship our products until replacement manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production may be a costly and time-consuming process. Therefore, we may be unable to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • risk of loss of inventory while in transit. Any interruption in our ability to effect the manufacture and distribution of our products could result in delays in shipment, lost sales, limited revenue growth and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a timely manner, we may incur delays in shipment and our revenues and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. An important part of our business strategy is the expansion of production capacity for our products. We plan to increase production capacity by adding new contract manufacturers and by expanding capacity with our existing contract manufacturers. Our ability to successfully increase production capacity will depend on a number of factors, including the following: • identification and availability of appropriate and affordable contract manufacturers; • ability of our current contract manufacturers to allocate more existing capacity to us or their ability to add new capacity quickly; • availability of critical components used in the manufacture of our products; • establishment of adequate management information systems, financial controls and supply chain management and quality control procedures; and • ability of our future contract manufacturers to implement our manufacturing processes. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a timely manner while maintaining adequate quality, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet increased demand for our products which could harm our revenues and damage our reputation and our relationships with customers and prospective customers. 6 Table of Contents If we are not able to compete effectively against larger lighting manufacturers with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized. In the high performance lighting markets in which we sell our ODL and other LED lighting systems, and in the licensing markets in which we participate, our systems compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by many vendors. In addition, we face competition from a number of manufacturers, including manufacturers of traditional lighting equipment that have developed one or more SSL products. Some of our competitors, particularly those that offer traditional lighting products, are larger companies with greater resources to devote to research and development, manufacturing and marketing than we have. Additionally, to the extent that we seek to introduce ODL products for use in general lighting applications, such as retrofit bulbs and lamps for standard fixtures, we expect to encounter competition from large, established companies in the general lighting industry such as General Electric, Matsushita, Osram Sylvania and Philips Lighting, each of which has, we believe, undertaken initiatives to develop LED technology. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of solid-state lighting systems than we have. We will also be competing with domestic and international manufacturers of lighting components of various sizes and resources. We may be unable to compete successfully in such markets against these or future competitors. In each of our markets, we anticipate the possibility that LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us by introducing more complete systems that do not infringe upon our patents. Our competitors’ lighting technologies and products may be more readily accepted by customers than our products. Additionally, to the extent that competition in our markets intensifies, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. If we do not compete effectively, or if we reduce our prices without making commensurate reductions in our costs, our revenues and profitability, and our future prospects for success may be harmed. If we are unable to manage any future growth effectively, our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected. Our anticipated growth is expected to place significant strain on our limited research and development, sales and marketing, operational and administrative resources. To manage any future growth, we must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. For example, we may need to implement new management information systems, hire and train new sales representatives and expand our supply chain management and quality control operations. Additionally, we may need to make additions to our operations and administrative management teams. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to operate profitability and we may not be able to effectively pursue our business plan. We are subject to legal, political and economic risks abroad. We currently outsource the manufacture of certain of our products and parts and components to international facilities. To the extent that we continue to outsource to international locations, we are exposed to differing laws, regulations and business cultures than what we experience domestically that may adversely impact our business. We may also be exposed to economic and political instability and international unrest. Although we hope to enter into agreements with manufacturers, shippers and distributors that attempt to minimize these risks, such agreements may not be honored and we may not be able to adequately protect our interests. We intend to continue outsourcing the manufacture of our products and parts and components internationally for the foreseeable future. There are many barriers and risks to operating successfully in the international marketplace, including the following: 7 Table of Contents • intellectual property protection risks; • foreign currency risks; • dependence on foreign manufacturers, shippers and distributors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; and • import and export restrictions and tariffs. If we are not able to successfully deliver our products and services to our anticipated markets in a timely and cost-effective manner, our revenue growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Our products could contain defects that could reduce sales or result in claims against us. Despite testing by us and our customers, defects could be found in the future in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm both our relationship with our customers and our reputation in the marketplace. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers for which they might seek legal recourse against us. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. We are currently subject to litigation with Philips Solid State Lighting Solutions, Inc., the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Philips Solid State Lighting Solutions, Inc. filed a civil lawsuit against us on February 19, 2008. The lawsuit seeks injunctive relief and unspecified compensatory and treble damages and attorneys’ fees for alleged infringement of five (5) related patents. Although we believe that this lawsuit is without merit and intend to dispute the claim, we cannot predict with any significant degree of certainty the outcome or resolution of this lawsuit or the timing for its resolution. In addition to the expense and burden that may be incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address the claim. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to respond effectively as new lighting technologies and market trends emerge, our competitive position and our ability to generate revenues and profits may be harmed. To be successful, we must keep pace with rapid changes in lighting technology, changing customer requirements, new product introductions by competitors and evolving industry standards, any of which could render our existing products obsolete if we fail to respond in a timely manner. For example, if new solid-state lighting devices are introduced that can be controlled by methods not covered by our proprietary technology, or if effective new sources of light other than solid-state devices are discovered, our current products and technology could become less competitive or obsolete. If others develop innovative proprietary lighting technology that is superior to ours, or if we fail to accurately anticipate technology and market trends and respond on a timely basis with our own innovations, our competitive position may be harmed and we may not achieve sufficient growth in our revenues to attain, or sustain, profitability. If we are unable to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to commercialize our products could be substantially limited. 8 Table of Contents We have filed forty-nine (49) patent applications. From these applications, eighteen (18) patents have been issued, three (3) have been approved and are awaiting patent issuance, twenty-two (22) are currently pending approval, and six (6) are no longer active. Any patent applications filed by us, or by others under which we have rights, may not result in patents being issued in the United States or foreign countries. Because our patent position involves complex legal, scientific, and factual questions, the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Competitors may develop products similar to our products that do not conflict with our patents. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. Our ODL technology may inadvertently infringe on patents or rights owned by others or licenses which might not be available to us. Litigation of intellectual property rights can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of our management and key technical personnel, which could severely harm our business. Plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief. Any intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business. We may not be able to afford the legal costs associated with defending or enforcing any of our patents. In some cases, we may rely on trade secrets to protect our innovations. There can be no assurance that trade secrets will be established, that secrecy obligations will be honored or that others will not independently develop similar or superior technology. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our projects, disputes might arise as to the proprietary rights to such information that may not be resolved in our favor. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because our stock price is volatile, it can be difficult for stockholders to predict the value of our shares at any given time. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which makes it difficult for stockholders to assess or predict the value of their shares. In the last two completed fiscal years, the price of our common stock has ranged from $3.00 to $13.00. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock including, but not limited to: • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in laws and government regulations; • developments concerning our proprietary rights; • public perception relating to the commercial value or reliability of any of our lighting products; • future sales of our common stock or issues of other equity securities convertible into or exercisable for the purchase of common stock; and • general stock market conditions. Trading in our common stock is sporadic and an established trading market may not be developed or sustained. Although our common stock is quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board, a regular trading market for the securities may not be sustained in the future. The OTC Bulletin Board is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the Nasdaq stock market. Quotes for stocks listed in the OTC Bulletin Board generally are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers and newspapers often devote very little coverage to stocks quoted solely in the OTC Bulletin Board. Accordingly, prices for and coverage of securities quoted solely in the OTC Bulletin Board may be difficult to obtain. In addition, 9 Table of Contents stocks quoted solely in the OTC Bulletin Board tend to have a limited number of market makers and a larger spread between the bid and ask prices than those listed on the NYSE, AMEX or Nasdaq. All of these factors may cause holders of our common stock to be unable to resell their securities at any price. This limited trading also could decrease or eliminate our ability to raise additional funds through issuances of its securities. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. SEC regulations generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock currently is less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, is designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. Because we have never paid dividends on our common stock and have no plans to do so, the only return on your investment will come from any increase in the value of the common stock. Since beginning our current business, we have not paid cash dividends on the common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Rather, we currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance operations and expand our business. Therefore, any return on your investment would come only from an increase in the value of our common stock. One stockholder owns a significant portion of our outstanding capital stock and is able to influence our actions. LED Holdings beneficially owns 2,000,000 shares of our newly designated Series B Stock and 15,928,734 shares of our outstanding common stock, which represents approximately 70% of our fully-diluted capital stock and 80% of the voting power of all of our outstanding shares of capital stock as of March 24, 2008. Due to the significant amount of voting power held by LED Holdings, it has the ability to greatly influence the election of our board of directors and to approve or disapprove all other matters requiring the vote of stockholders. Because there is a potential for significant future dilution of our existing stockholders, their percentage ownership and control over company matters could be reduced. Currently, we are authorized to issue up to 495,000,000 shares of our common stock. As of March 24, 2008, there were issued and outstanding 22,069,810 shares of our common stock and we may be obligated to issue up to 4,217,837 shares of our common stock to the holders of our outstanding 6% Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B Stock, warrants for the purchase of common stock, and stock options. We are also obligated to issue up to 250,000 shares of restricted common stock to Ken Honeycutt, our president and chief operating officer, pursuant to the terms of his Restricted Stock Award Agreement. The authorized but unissued shares of common stock may be issued by us in such transactions and at such times as our board of directors considers appropriate, whether in public or private offerings, as stock splits or dividends or in connection with mergers and acquisitions or otherwise. Any such issuance that is not made solely to all then-existing common stockholders proportionate to their interests (as in a stock dividend or stock split) will result in dilution to each stockholder by reducing his or her percentage ownership of the total outstanding shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions 10 Table of Contents include the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock. The existence of this provision could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us or obtaining control of us. 