Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to manage any future growth effectively, our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected. If we were to reach our sales goals, the resulting growth is expected to place strain on our limited research and development, sales and marketing, operational and administrative resources. To manage any future growth, we must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. For example, we need to implement new management information systems, hire and train new sales representatives and improve our supply chain management and quality control operations. Additionally, we need to make additions to our operations and administrative management teams. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to operate profitability and we may not be able to effectively pursue our business plan. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a timely manner, we may incur delays in shipment and our revenues and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. An important part of our business strategy is the expansion of production capacity for our products. We plan to increase production capacity by increasing capacity at our Satellite Beach facility and potentially adding new contract manufacturers or by expanding capacity with our existing contract manufacturers. Our ability to successfully increase production capacity will depend on a number of factors, including the following: • our ability to successfully increase capacity at our Satellite Beach facility; • identification and availability of appropriate and affordable contract manufacturers; • ability of our current contract manufacturers to allocate more of their existing capacity to us or their ability to add new capacity quickly; • availability of critical components used in the manufacture of our products; • establishment of adequate management information systems, financial controls and supply chain management and quality control procedures; and • ability of our future contract manufacturers to implement our manufacturing processes. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a timely manner while maintaining adequate quality, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet increased demand for our products which could harm our revenues and damage our reputation and our relationships with current customers and prospective customers. If critical components and raw materials that we utilize in our products become unavailable, we may incur delays in shipment that could damage our business. We depend on our suppliers for certain standard electronic components as well as custom components critical to the manufacture of our lighting devices. We currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for LEDs 8 Table of Contents used in the production of our products. We depend on our vendors to supply in a timely manner critical components in adequate quantities and consistent quality and at reasonable costs. Finding a suitable alternate supply of required components that meet our strict specifications and obtaining them in needed quantities may be a time-consuming process and we may not be able to find an adequate alternative source of supply at an acceptable cost. We are seeking to establish long-term relationships with certain key suppliers to ensure availability of key components at favorable pricing. However, we currently rely on purchase orders with our suppliers rather than long-term contracts. To the extent that we do not have long term contracts, we may not be able to predict with certainty our ability to obtain components in adequate quantities and at acceptable prices when they may be needed. If we are unable to obtain components in adequate quantities, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet demand for our products, which could damage our reputation with customers and prospective customers. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are LEDs, a variety of standard electrical components, printed circuit boards, wire, plastics for optics, metal for housings and heat sinks. From time to time, LEDs have been in short supply due to demand, binning restrictions and production constraints. Any significant interruption in the supply of these raw materials could have a material adverse effect upon us. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of the LEDs used in our products are silicon wafers, gold wire, lead frames and a variety of packages and substrates, including metal, printed circuit board, flex circuits, ceramic and plastic packages and phosphors. From time to time, particularly during periods of increased industry-wide demand, silicon wafers and other materials have been in short supply. Any significant interruption in the supply of these raw materials could have a material adverse effect upon us. We rely upon key members of our management team and other key personnel and a loss of key personnel could prevent or significantly delay the achievement of our goals. Our success will depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued services of key members of our management team and other key personnel. The loss of key members of our management team or other key personnel could prevent or significantly delay the implementation of our business plan and marketing efforts. If we continue to grow, we may need to add additional management and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our efforts to obtain or retain such personnel may not be successful. The current economic downturn and uncertainty and turmoil in the equity and credit markets could continue to adversely impact our clients, diminish the demand for our products and harm our operations and financial performance. The lighting markets in which we sell our LED lighting devices have experienced rapid evolution and growth in recent years, but have been negatively affected by the downturn in the general economy. The current economic downturn has harmed, and could continue to harm, the economic health of our clients and consequently decrease the demand for our products, particularly in the public and private infrastructure, retail and hospitality, consumer and commercial, and architecture and architainment markets. Further, certain of our present customers and potential future customers have informed us that they may not purchase our products unless or until they receive funds pursuant to the legislative initiatives promulgated under the ARRA. The persistence of the economic downturn also may cause reductions or elimination of utility and government energy efficiency incentive programs used to partially fund the costs of customer projects. In addition, increased competition during the current economic downturn may result in lower sales, reduced likelihood of profitability, and diminished cash flow to us. 9 Table of Contents We have a limited amount of revenues and a history of losses and may be unable to continue operations unless we can generate sufficient operating income from the sale of our products. We have sustained operating losses since the inception of our lighting business. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had revenues of $31.4 million and $20.8 million, respectively, and as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had accumulated deficits of $148.0 million and $99.9 million, respectively. We utilize contract manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products and any disruption in these relationships may cause us to fail to meet our customers’ demands and may damage our customer relationships. Although we assemble and manufacture certain of our products, we currently depend on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products at plants in various locations throughout the world. These manufacturers provide the necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • risk of loss of inventory while in transit. If our contract manufacturers were to terminate their arrangements with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would experience delays in the manufacture and shipment of our products until alternative manufacturing services could be contracted or internal manufacturing processes could be implemented. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production may be a costly and time-consuming process. If we are required or choose to change contract manufacturers for any reason, our revenue, gross margins and customer relationships could be adversely affected. We assemble and manufacture certain of our products and our sales, results of operations and reputation could be materially adversely affected if there is a disruption at our assembly and manufacturing facilities. We currently have one main assembly and manufacturing facility located in Satellite Beach, Florida and a custom product and project assembly and manufacturing facility located in Rancho Cordova, California. The operation of these facilities involves many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, power outages and other business interruptions. Although we carry business interruption insurance and third-party liability insurance to cover claims in respect of personal injury or property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties or relating to our operations, our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any interruption in our ability to affect the assembly, manufacture or distribution of our products could result in lost sales, limited revenue growth and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. Since inception we have not achieved profitability, and it is difficult to evaluate the likelihood that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Therefore, if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to suspend or discontinue operations. On an annual basis, our operations have not generated positive cash flow since our inception, and we have funded our operations primarily through the issuance of common and preferred stock and debt. We have recently made the transition from a development stage company to one that is focusing on sales and growth in the lighting 10 Table of Contents industry. As we concentrate on commercializing our products, our limited operating history makes an evaluation of our future prospects difficult. The actual amount of funds that we will need to meet our operating needs during the next twelve months will be determined by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the timing and volume of sales transactions, the success of our marketing strategy, market acceptance of our products, the success of our manufacturing and research and development efforts (including any unanticipated delays), the costs and timing of obtaining new patent rights, enforcing our existing patents, potential infringement claims, regulatory changes, competition, technological developments in the market, evolving industry standards and the amount of working capital investments we are required to make. Our ability to continue to operate until our cash flow from operations turns positive may depend on our ability to continue to raise funds through public or private sales of shares of our capital stock or through debt. We currently have a line of credit with the Bank of Montreal (“BMO”), short- and long-term debt facilities with ABN AMRO that provide up to €300,000 and a working capital facility with IFN Finance that provides up to €4.0 million. Our line of credit with BMO matures on written demand by BMO, but in no event later than August 24, 2010. On March 15, 2010, we amended our Loan Agreement with BMO, to increase the size of our line of credit with BMO from $20 million to $25 million. As of March 19, 2010, the balance outstanding on the BMO loan was $20.4 million. Our short- and long-term debt facilities with ABN AMRO originally were scheduled to mature on January 1, 2010 and January 1, 2014, respectively. However, due to the fact that we were in default on our solvency ratio covenant with respect to each of these facilities as of November 30, 2009, we renegotiated the terms of our debt with ABN AMRO. Pursuant to the new terms of our agreement, the maturity date is December 15, 2010 for both facilities. Further, we have agreed to reduce the principal amount outstanding on these facilities on a monthly basis until maturity. The working capital facility with IFN Finance matures on November 14, 2010. Other than these facilities, we do not have any committed sources of outside capital at this time. The current worldwide economic downturn has significantly reduced access to capital and credit markets, and it is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain outside capital when we need it or on terms that would be acceptable to us. In the past we have primarily relied on, and currently rely on, financing or guaranties from related parties, principally Pegasus IV. There are no assurances that such related parties will continue to provide financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are unable to obtain sufficient outside capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to suspend or discontinue operations. Our products may contain defects that could reduce sales or result in claims against us. Despite testing by us and our customers, defects have been and could be found in the future in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers and our reputation in the marketplace. These problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers for which they might seek legal recourse against us. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. If our developed technology does not achieve market acceptance, prospects for our growth and profitability would be limited. Our future success depends on market acceptance of our LED technology. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt LED lighting as an alternative to traditional lighting technology because of its higher initial cost or perceived risks relating to its novelty, reliability, usefulness, light quality and cost-effectiveness when compared to other established lighting sources available in the market. If acceptance of LED lighting in general, 11 Table of Contents and of our LED lighting devices in particular, does not continue to grow within the high performance lighting markets that we serve, and in the markets that we intend to serve through future customers, then opportunities to increase our revenues and operate profitably may be limited. Our business strategy includes penetration of the general lighting market with our lighting products. Failure to obtain and incorporate into our products, on a timely basis, LEDs with satisfactory performance, quality and cost characteristics could delay our introduction of new products, or reduce the attractiveness to potential customers of our products in the general lighting market. If we are not able to compete effectively against larger lighting manufacturers with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized. In the lighting markets in which we sell our lighting devices, we compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by many vendors. In addition, we face competition from a number of manufacturers, including manufacturers of traditional lighting equipment that have developed one or more LED products. Some of our competitors, particularly those that offer traditional lighting products, are larger companies with greater resources to devote to research and development, manufacturing and marketing. To the extent that we seek to introduce LED products such as retrofit bulbs and lamps for standard fixtures for use in general lighting applications, we expect to encounter competition from large, established companies in the general lighting industry such as General Electric, Matsushita, Osram Sylvania and Philips Lighting, each of which has, we believe, undertaken initiatives to develop LED technology as well as other energy efficient lighting products. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of LED systems than we have. We anticipate the possibility that larger LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us by introducing more complete systems or fixtures that do not infringe upon our patents. We may be unable to compete successfully in such markets against these or future competitors. We are subject to legal, political and economic risks abroad. As a result of our acquisition of LSGBV and other international affiliates, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies, differing business cultures and foreign regulations that may conflict with domestic regulations. We believe that there are many barriers and risks to operating successfully in the international marketplace, including the following: • intellectual property protection risks; • employment law risks; • differing contracting process including the ability to enforce agreements; • foreign currency risks; • increased dependence on foreign manufacturers, shippers and distributors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; and • import and export restrictions and tariffs. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our stock price. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for 12 Table of Contents us to produce reliable financial reports. If, as a result of deficiencies in our internal controls, we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business decision process may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our stock could decrease. During the evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective in reaching a reasonable level of assurance of achieving management’s desired controls and procedures objectives in our internal control over financial reporting. There is no guarantee that we will be able to resolve these material weaknesses or avoid other material weaknesses in the future. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to respond effectively as new lighting technologies and market trends emerge, our competitive position and our ability to generate revenues and profits may be harmed. To be successful, we must keep pace with rapid changes in lighting technology, changing customer requirements, new product introductions by competitors and evolving industry standards, any of which could render our existing products obsolete if we fail to respond in a timely manner. For example, if new LED devices are introduced that can be controlled by methods not covered by our proprietary technology, or if effective new sources of light other than solid-state devices are discovered, our current products and technology could become less competitive or obsolete. If others develop innovative proprietary lighting technology that is superior to ours, or if we fail to accurately anticipate technology and market trends and respond on a timely basis with our own innovations, our competitive position may be harmed and we may not achieve sufficient growth in our revenues to attain, or sustain, profitability. If we are unable to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to commercialize our products could be substantially limited. As of December 31, 2009, we had filed 132 U.S. patent applications. From these applications, 77 U.S. patents had been issued and 32 were pending approval. When we believe it is appropriate and cost effective, we make corresponding international, regional or national filings to pursue patent protection in other parts of the world. Patent applications filed by us, or by others, under which we have rights, may not result in patents being issued in the United States or foreign countries. Because our patent position involves complex legal, technical and factual questions, the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Competitors may develop products similar to our products that do not conflict with our patent rights. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. In some cases, we may rely on trade secrets to protect our innovations. There can be no assurance that trade secrets will be established, that secrecy obligations will be honored or that others will not independently develop similar or superior technology. In addition, our technology or products may inadvertently infringe on patents or rights owned by others and licenses might not be available to us on reasonable or acceptable terms or at all. Litigation of intellectual property rights can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of our management and key technical personnel, which could severely harm our business. Plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief. Any intellectual property litigation could be harmful to our business and we may not be able to afford the legal costs associated with defending against a claim of infringement or enforcing any of our patents. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because our stock price is volatile, it can be difficult for stockholders to predict the value of our shares at any given time. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which makes it difficult for stockholders to assess or predict the value of their shares. In the last two completed fiscal years, the price of our common stock has ranged from $0.15 to $10.20. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock including, but not limited to: • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in laws and government regulations; • developments concerning our proprietary rights; • public perception relating to the commercial value or reliability of any of our lighting products; • future sales of our common stock or issues of other equity securities convertible into or exercisable for the purchase of common stock; • our involvement in litigation; • the acquisition or divestiture by LED Holdings, Pegasus IV or their affiliates of part or all of their respective holdings; and • general stock market conditions. Two related stockholders and certain of their affiliates, collectively, beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding common stock and are able to heavily influence our actions. As of March 3, 2010, LED Holdings, Pegasus IV and certain of their affiliates, collectively, beneficially owned 85,193,923 shares of our common stock, which represented approximately 87.1% of our common stock. Due to the significant amount of voting power collectively held by LED Holdings, Pegasus IV and their affiliates, they have the ability to greatly influence the election of our board of directors and to approve or disapprove all other matters requiring the vote of stockholders. Trading in our common stock is sporadic and an established trading market may not be developed or sustained. Our shares do not at this time qualify for listing on any national securities exchange, and we cannot assure you that our shares will ever be listed on a national securities exchange. Prior to the close of trading on May 18, 2009, our shares were traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. After the close of trading on May 18, 2009, our common stock was removed from the OTC Bulletin Board because we had not filed our 2008 Form 10-K by that date. Our common stock is currently traded in the pink sheets, a centralized quotation service maintained by Pink OTC Markets Inc. that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities. Although our common stock is quoted in the pink sheets, a regular trading market for the securities may not be sustained in the future. Quotes for stocks listed in the pink sheets generally are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers and newspapers and other media sources often devote very little coverage to stocks quoted solely in the pink sheets. Accordingly, prices for, and coverage of, securities quoted solely in the pink sheets may be difficult to obtain. In addition, stocks quoted solely in the pink sheets tend to have a limited number of market makers and a larger spread between the bid and ask prices than those listed on the NYSE, NYSE Amex or The Nasdaq Stock Market. All of these factors may cause holders of our common stock to be unable to resell their securities at any price. This limited trading also could decrease or eliminate our ability to raise additional funds through issuances of our securities. 14 Table of Contents The holders of certain of our outstanding warrants have anti-dilution protection that may have an adverse impact on the market value of our common stock and our ability to raise additional financing. The holders of certain of our outstanding warrants presently have anti-dilution protection. For instance, the number of shares of common stock into which certain of our outstanding warrants are exercisable and the exercise price of such warrants may be adjusted in certain cases if we issue shares of common stock at a price per share that is less than the exercise price of such warrants. This may prove a hindrance to our efforts to raise future equity and debt funding, and the exercise of such rights will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our stockholders and will dilute the value of their stock. At its current levels, our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. SEC regulations generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock currently is less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, is designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability or willingness of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability or willingness of investors to buy or sell our shares. Because we have never paid dividends on our common stock and have no plans to do so, the only return on an investment in our common stock will come from any increase in the value of the common stock. Since beginning our current business, we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Rather, we currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance operations and expand our business. Therefore, any return on an investment in our common stock would come only from an increase in the value of our common stock. Because there is a potential for significant future dilution of our existing stockholders, their percentage ownership and control over company matters could be reduced. Currently, we are authorized to issue up to 400,000,000 shares of our common stock. As of March 31, 2010, there were 30,549,679 shares of our common stock outstanding, and we were obligated to issue up to an additional 21,940,139 shares of our common stock to the holders of our outstanding 6% Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, warrants for the purchase of common stock and stock options. The authorized but unissued shares of common stock may be issued by us in such transactions and at such times as our board of directors considers appropriate, whether in public or private offerings, as stock splits or dividends or in connection with mergers and acquisitions or otherwise. Any such issuance that is not made solely to all then-existing common stockholders proportionate to their interests (as in a stock dividend or stock split) will result in dilution to each stockholder by reducing his or her percentage ownership of the total outstanding shares. 