Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business The current economic downturn and uncertainty and turmoil in the equity and credit markets could continue to adversely impact our clients, diminish the demand for our products, and harm our operations and financial performance. The lighting markets in which we sell our LED lighting systems and fixtures have experienced rapid evolution and growth in recent years, but have been negatively affected by the current recession and downturn in the general economy. The current economic downturn has harmed, and could continue to harm, the economic health of our clients and consequently decrease the demand for our products, particularly in the gaming, architainment, commercial and industrial, retail and public infrastructure markets. The persistence of the economic downturn also may cause reductions or elimination of utility and government energy efficiency incentive programs used to partially fund the costs of customer projects. In addition, increased competition during the current economic downturn may result in lower sales, reduced likelihood of profitability, and diminished cash flow to us. We have a limited amount of revenues and a history of losses and may be unable to continue operations unless we can generate sufficient operating income by completing the commercialization of, and the successful marketing of, our products. We have sustained operating losses since the inception of our lighting business. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had revenues of $20,759,000 and $8,291,000, respectively, and as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we had accumulated deficits of approximately $99,865,000 and $4,902,000, respectively. We expect sales of our products to range from flat to a slight increase in 2009 as compared to the previous year. Our ability to generate revenue is, however, dependent on receiving purchase commitments from customers as well as the timing of such purchase commitments that are received. Our ability to generate revenue is also dependent on our ability to preserve our current customer relationships and our ability to continue selling our products to this group of customers as well as to other potential customers in the markets served by these customer relationships. Further, our ability to generate revenue is dependent on the design and development of our products, our ability to obtain appropriate UL or other certifications on certain of our products and the ultimate production of our products, each of which must be done timely and in a manner that meets our customers’ specifications. Since inception we have not achieved profitability, and it is difficult to evaluate the likelihood that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Therefore, if we are unable to obtain outside sufficient capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to suspend or discontinue operations. On an annual basis, our operations have not generated positive cash flow since our inception, and we have funded our operations primarily through the issuance of common and preferred stock and debt. We have recently made the transition from a development stage company to one that is focusing on sales and growth in the lighting industry marketplace. As we concentrate on commercializing our products, our 4 Table of Contents limited operating history makes an evaluation of our future prospects difficult. The actual amount of funds that we will need to meet our operating needs during the next twelve months will be determined by several factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the timing and volume of sales transactions, the success of our marketing strategy, market acceptance of our products, the success of our research and development efforts (including any unanticipated delays), the costs and timing of obtaining new patent rights, protecting our existing patents, regulatory changes, competition, technological developments in the market, evolving industry standards, the amount of working capital investments we are required to make, and the costs required for us to litigate and ultimately resolve the lawsuits with Philips Solid State Lighting Solutions, Inc., Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V., and Philips Electronics North America Corporation. Our ability to continue to operate until our cash flow from operations turns positive may depend on our ability to continue to raise funds through public or private sales of shares of our capital stock or debt. The current worldwide economic downturn has significantly reduced access to capital and credit markets. We currently have a line of credit with BMO, short- and long-term debt facilities with ABN AMRO and a working capital facility with IFN Finance. Our line of credit with BMO matures on written demand by BMO, but in no event later than July 25, 2009. Our short- and long-term debt facilities with ABN AMRO mature on January 1, 2010 and January 1, 2014, respectively. The working capital facility with IFN Finance matures on November 14, 2009. Other than these facilities, we do not have any committed sources of outside capital at this time. In the event that the line of credit is called by BMO prior to July 25, 2009 and the Company has not obtained alternative financing, Pegasus IV has agreed to extend a bridge loan to the Company for up to six months for the amount of the then-outstanding aggregate principal amount of the line of credit plus an additional $2,000,000 (up to an aggregate of $20 million). It is uncertain whether we will be able to obtain outside capital when we need it or on terms that would be acceptable. We are currently in default under our loan agreement with ABN AMRO and have been since December 31, 2008. In the past we have relied on, and currently almost exclusively rely on, financing from related parties, primarily Pegasus IV. There are no assurances that such related parties will continue to provide financing or financing on terms that are acceptable to us. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are unable to obtain sufficient outside capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to suspend or discontinue operations. If our developed technology does not achieve market acceptance, prospects for our growth and profitability may be limited. Our future success depends on market acceptance of our LED technology. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt SSL as an alternative to traditional lighting technology because of its higher initial cost or perceived risks relating to its novelty, reliability, usefulness, light quality, and cost-effectiveness when compared to other established lighting sources available in the market. If acceptance of SSL in general, and of our LED lighting systems in particular, does not continue to grow within the high performance lighting markets that we serve, and in the markets that we intend to serve through future customers, then opportunities to increase our revenues and operate profitably may be limited. Our business strategy includes penetration of the general lighting market with our lighting products. Failure to obtain and incorporate into our products, on a timely basis, LEDs having satisfactory performance, quality and cost characteristics could delay our introduction of new products, or reduce the attractiveness to potential customers of our products in the general lighting market. If we are unable to integrate our acquisitions into our operations, our business and future prospects will or could be adversely affected. The integration of the acquired operations and assets of LED Holdings, LPBV and Lamina during the prior two years, including, among other things, leases, equipment, inventory, accounts receivable, contracts, permits, records, and intellectual property, has been, and may continue to be, difficult and may 5 Table of Contents lead to adverse effects. The ultimate success of the integration will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from these acquired businesses. The integration process is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. We may not accomplish these integrations smoothly or successfully. The diversion of the attention of management from its current operations to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of these businesses and adversely affect our other operations. Our products could contain defects that could reduce sales or result in claims against us. Despite testing by us and our customers, defects have been and could be found in the future in our existing or future products. This could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of revenues, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm both our relationship with our customers and our reputation in the marketplace. The occurrence of these problems could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers for which they might seek legal recourse against us. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. We rely upon key members of our management team and other key personnel and a loss of any key personnel could prevent or significantly delay the achievement of our goals. Our success will depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued service of key members of our management team and other key personnel. The loss of any key personnel could prevent or significantly delay the achievement of our goals. We have employment agreements with certain key members of our management team and, as determined by our board of directors, maintain a key man life insurance policy with respect to certain members of our management team. If any of these persons were to leave us, it could delay implementation of our business plan and marketing efforts. If we continue to grow, we may need to add additional management and other personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our efforts to obtain or retain such personnel may not be successful. If critical components and raw materials that we utilize in our products become unavailable, we may incur delays in shipment that could damage our business. We depend on our suppliers for certain standard electronic components as well as custom components critical to the manufacture of our SSL systems and fixtures. For certain types of LEDs used in our lighting systems and fixtures, we currently have a limited number of suppliers. We depend on our vendors to supply in a timely manner critical components in adequate quantities and consistent quality and at reasonable costs. Finding a suitable alternate supply of required components and obtaining them in needed quantities may be a time-consuming process and we may not be able to find an adequate alternative source of supply at an acceptable cost. Because we generally rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, we cannot predict with certainty our ability to obtain components in adequate quantities and at acceptable prices in the longer term. If we are unable to obtain components in adequate quantities, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet demand for our products, which could damage our reputation with customers and prospective customers. The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our LED components and sensor assemblies are silicon wafers, gold wire, lead frames, and a variety of packages and substrates, including metal, printed circuit board, flex circuits, ceramic and plastic packages. All of these raw materials can be obtained from several suppliers. From time to time, particularly during periods of increased industry-wide 6 Table of Contents demand, silicon wafers and other materials have been in short supply. Any significant interruption in the supply of these raw materials could have a material adverse effect upon us. If the companies to which we outsource the manufacture of our products fail to meet our requirements for quality, quantity and timeliness, we may incur delays in shipment that could harm our revenues and reputation in the marketplace. We outsource a significant portion of the manufacture and assembly of our products. We currently depend on a small number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products at plants in various locations throughout the world. These manufacturers provide the necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. In the future, we may rely on contract manufacturers to supply some or all of the standard electronic components as well as custom components critical to the manufacture of our SSL systems and fixtures, in addition to providing the necessary facilities and labor to manufacture our products. If these companies were to terminate their arrangements with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would be unable to manufacture and ship our products until replacement manufacturing services could be obtained. To qualify a new contract manufacturer, familiarize it with our products, quality standards and other requirements, and commence volume production may be a costly and time-consuming process. Therefore, we may be unable to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on acceptable terms. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involves certain risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • lack of direct control over quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • risk of loss of inventory while in transit. Any interruption in our ability to effect the manufacture and distribution of our products could result in delays in shipment, lost sales, limited revenue growth and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a timely manner, we may incur delays in shipment and our revenues and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. An important part of our business strategy is the expansion of production capacity for our products. We plan to increase production capacity by adding new contract manufacturers and by expanding capacity with our existing contract manufacturers. Our ability to successfully increase production capacity will depend on a number of factors, including the following: • identification and availability of appropriate and affordable contract manufacturers; • ability of our current contract manufacturers to allocate more existing capacity to us or their ability to add new capacity quickly; • availability of critical components used in the manufacture of our products; • establishment of adequate management information systems, financial controls and supply chain management and quality control procedures; and • ability of our future contract manufacturers to implement our manufacturing processes. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a timely manner while maintaining adequate quality, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet increased demand for our products which could harm our revenues and damage our reputation and our relationships with customers and prospective customers. 7 Table of Contents We are subject to legal, political and economic risks abroad. As a result of our acquisition of LPBV and certain other international affiliates, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Our operations in these foreign jurisdictions are subject to regulations that may be different from those imposed by U.S. regulatory authorities and may in some cases conflict with domestic regulations. We also currently outsource the manufacture of certain of our products and parts and components to international facilities. To the extent that we continue to outsource to international locations, we are exposed to differing laws, regulations and business cultures than what we experience domestically that may adversely impact our business. We may also be exposed to economic and political instability and international unrest. Although we hope to enter into agreements with manufacturers, shippers and distributors that attempt to minimize these risks, such agreements may not be honored and we may not be able to adequately protect our interests. We believe that there are many barriers and risks to operating successfully in the international marketplace, including the following: • intellectual property protection risks; • employment law risks; • differing contracting process including the ability to enforce agreements; • foreign currency risks; • dependence on foreign manufacturers, shippers and distributors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; and • import and export restrictions and tariffs. If we are not able to successfully deliver our products and services to our anticipated markets in a timely and cost-effective manner, our revenue growth and profitability may be adversely affected. If we are not able to compete effectively against larger lighting manufacturers with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized. In the lighting markets in which we sell our LED lighting systems and fixtures, our systems, retrofit lamps and fixtures compete with lighting products utilizing traditional lighting technology provided by many vendors. In addition, we face competition from a number of manufacturers, including manufacturers of traditional lighting equipment that have developed one or more LED products. Some of our competitors, particularly those that offer traditional lighting products, are larger companies with greater resources to devote to research and development, manufacturing and marketing than we have. Additionally, to the extent that we seek to introduce LED products for use in general lighting applications, such as retrofit bulbs and lamps for standard fixtures, we expect to encounter competition from large, established companies in the general lighting industry such as General Electric, Matsushita, Osram Sylvania and Philips Lighting, each of which has, we believe, undertaken initiatives to develop LED technology. These companies have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater resources to devote to research and development and other aspects of the development, manufacture and marketing of SSL systems than we have. We anticipate the possibility that LED manufacturers, including those that currently supply us with LEDs, may seek to compete with us by introducing more complete systems or fixtures that do not infringe upon our patents. We will also be competing with domestic and international manufacturers of lighting components of various sizes and resources. We may be unable to compete successfully in such markets against these or future competitors. 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage any future growth effectively, our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected. Our anticipated growth is expected to place significant strain on our limited research and development, sales and marketing, operational and administrative resources. To manage any future growth, we must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. For example, we may need to implement new management information systems, hire and train new sales representatives and expand our supply chain management and quality control operations. Additionally, we may need to make additions to our operations and administrative management teams. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to operate profitability and we may not be able to effectively pursue our business plan. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We are currently involved in patent infringement litigation with Philips Solid State Lighting Solutions, Inc. and certain of its affiliates, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Since February 19, 2008, we have been involved in patent infringement litigation with Philips Solid State Lighting Solutions, Inc. (“Philips SSL”) and certain of its affiliates. Specifically, Philips SSL and certain of its affiliates seek injunctive relief and compensatory and treble damages and attorneys’ fees from us for alleged infringement of certain patents. Although we were granted a preliminary injunction with respect to certain of our claims against Philips SSL and certain of its affiliates and we have agreed to stay all litigation temporarily to facilitate settlement negotiations, we cannot predict with any significant degree of certainty the outcome or resolution of this lawsuit or the timing for its resolution. In addition to the expense and burden that may be incurred in defending and prosecuting this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, our management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address the claim. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to respond effectively as new lighting technologies and market trends emerge, our competitive position and our ability to generate revenues and profits may be harmed. To be successful, we must keep pace with rapid changes in lighting technology, changing customer requirements, new product introductions by competitors and evolving industry standards, any of which could render our existing products obsolete if we fail to respond in a timely manner. For example, if new SSL devices are introduced that can be controlled by methods not covered by our proprietary technology, or if effective new sources of light other than solid-state devices are discovered, our current products and technology could become less competitive or obsolete. If others develop innovative proprietary lighting technology that is superior to ours, or if we fail to accurately anticipate technology and market trends and respond on a timely basis with our own innovations, our competitive position may be harmed and we may not achieve sufficient growth in our revenues to attain, or sustain, profitability. If we are unable to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to commercialize our products could be substantially limited. We have filed one-hundred eighteen (118) U.S. patent applications. From these applications, seventy-two (72) U.S. patents have been issued, thirty-five (35) are currently pending approval and eleven(11) are no longer active. When we believe it is appropriate and cost effective, we make corresponding PCT, regional or national filings to pursue patent protection in other parts of the world. Patent applications filed by us, or by others under which we have rights, may not result in patents being issued in the United States or foreign countries. Because our patent position involves complex legal, technical, and factual questions, the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Competitors may develop products similar to our products that do not conflict with our patents. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. Our technology or products may inadvertently infringe patents or rights owned by others or licenses that might not be available to us. 9 Table of Contents Litigation of intellectual property rights can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of our management and key technical personnel, which could severely harm our business. Plaintiffs in intellectual property cases often seek injunctive relief. Any intellectual property litigation commenced against us could force us to take actions that could be harmful to our business. We also may not be able to afford the legal costs associated with defending or enforcing any of our patents. In some cases, we may rely on trade secrets to protect our innovations. There can be no assurance that trade secrets will be established, that secrecy obligations will be honored or that others will not independently develop similar or superior technology. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our projects, disputes might arise as to the proprietary rights to such information that may not be resolved in our favor. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because our stock price is volatile, it can be difficult for stockholders to predict the value of our shares at any given time. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile, which makes it difficult for stockholders to assess or predict the value of their shares. In the last two completed fiscal years, the price of our common stock has ranged from $0.36 to $11.40. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our common stock including, but not limited to: • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • our involvement in litigation; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in laws and government regulations; • developments concerning our proprietary rights; • public perception relating to the commercial value or reliability of any of our lighting products; • future sales of our common stock or issues of other equity securities convertible into or exercisable for the purchase of common stock; and • general stock market conditions. Trading in our common stock is sporadic and an established trading market may not be developed or sustained. Our shares do not at this time qualify for listing on any national securities exchange, and we cannot assure you that our shares will ever be listed on a national securities exchange. Prior to the close of trading on May 18, 2009, our shares were traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. After the close of trading on May 18, 2009, our common stock was removed from the OTC Bulletin Board because we had not filed our 2008 Form 10-K by that date. Our common stock is currently traded on the pink sheets, a centralized quotation service maintained by Pink OTC Markets Inc. that collects and publishes market maker quotes for over-the-counter securities. Although our common stock is quoted in the pink sheets, a regular trading market for the securities may not be sustained in the future. Quotes for stocks listed in the pink sheets generally are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers and newspapers often devote very little coverage to stocks quoted solely in the pink sheets. Accordingly, prices for, and coverage of, securities quoted solely in the pink sheets may be difficult to obtain. In addition, stocks quoted solely in the pink sheets tend to have a limited number of market makers and a larger spread between the bid and ask prices than those listed on the NYSE, NYSE Amex or The Nasdaq Stock Market. All of these factors may cause 10 Table of Contents holders of our common stock to be unable to resell their securities at any price. This limited trading also could decrease or eliminate our ability to raise additional funds through issuances of its securities. At its current levels, our common stock is considered a “penny stock” and may be difficult to sell. SEC regulations generally define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock currently is less than $5.00 per share and, therefore, is designated as a “penny stock” according to SEC rules. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. Because we have never paid dividends on our common stock and have no plans to do so, the only return on your investment will come from any increase in the value of the common stock. Since beginning our current business, we have not paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Rather, we currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance operations and expand our business. Therefore, any return on an investment in our common stock would come only from an increase in the value of our common stock. Two stockholders and certain of their affiliates, collectively, beneficially own a significant portion of our outstanding capital stock and are able to influence our actions. LED Holdings, Pegasus IV and certain of their affiliates, collectively, beneficially own 239,975 shares of our Series C Preferred Stock, 2,000,000 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock and 56,670,563 shares of our outstanding common stock, which represents approximately 82% of our fully-diluted capital stock and 71% of the voting power of all of our outstanding shares of capital stock as of June 26, 2009. Due to the significant amount of voting power held by LED Holdings, Pegasus IV and their affiliates, they have the ability to greatly influence the election of our board of directors and to approve or disapprove all other matters requiring the vote of stockholders. Because there is a potential for significant future dilution of our existing stockholders, their percentage ownership and control over company matters could be reduced. Currently, we are authorized to issue up to 495,000,000 shares of our common stock. As of June 26, 2009, 30,182,066 shares of our common stock were issued and we may be obligated to issue up to 40,995,629 shares of our common stock to the holders of our outstanding 6% Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, warrants for the purchase of common stock, stock options and warrants to be issued pursuant to a convertible note. The authorized but unissued shares of common stock may be issued by us in such transactions and at such times as our board of directors considers appropriate, whether in public or private offerings, as stock splits or dividends or in connection with mergers and acquisitions or otherwise. Any such issuance that is not made solely to all then-existing common stockholders proportionate to their interests (as in a stock dividend or stock split) will result in dilution to each stockholder by reducing his or her percentage ownership of the total outstanding shares. We are contractually obligated to conduct a rights offering to all current common and preferred stockholders and all warrant holders and to cause a registration statement regarding the rights offering to be declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) no later than July 31, 2009. To the extent that an individual holder of common or preferred stock or warrants does not subscribe for rights under the proposed offering, the holder of the common or preferred stock or warrants may be diluted. 11 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock. The existence of this provision could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us or obtaining control of us. 