Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We have a history of losses and may be unable to continue operations unless we can generate sufficient operating income from the sale of our products. We have sustained operating losses since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had revenue of $127.1 million and $109.0 million, respectively, and as of December 31, 2012, we had accumulated a deficit of $644.9 million. As evidenced by these financial results, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability on a consistent basis. Continuing losses may exhaust our capital resources and force us to discontinue our operations. We have yet to achieve positive cash flow, and our ability to generate positive cash flow is uncertain. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to suspend or discontinue operations. Our operations have not generated positive cash flow for any reporting period since our inception, and we have funded our operations primarily through the issuance of common and preferred stock and short-term and long-term debt. We have had significant revenue growth during the past four years, but our limited operating history makes an evaluation of our future prospects difficult. The actual amount of funds that we will need to meet our operating needs will be determined by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the timing and volume of sales transactions, the success of our marketing strategy, market acceptance of our products, the success of our manufacturing and research and development efforts (including any unanticipated delays), our manufacturing and labor costs, the costs associated with obtaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights, regulatory changes, competition, technological developments in the market, evolving industry standards and the amount of working capital investments we are required to make. Our ability to continue to operate until our cash flow from operations turns positive will depend on our ability to continue to raise funds through public or private sales of shares of our capital stock or through debt. We currently have an asset-based lending facility (the “Wells Fargo ABL”) with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Wells Fargo”) and a Second Lien Letter of Credit Facility (the “Ares Letter of Credit Facility”) with Ares Capital Corporation (“Ares Capital”). The Wells 5 Table of Contents Fargo ABL provides us with borrowing capacity of up to a maximum of $50.0 million, which capacity is equal to the sum of (i) 85% of our eligible accounts receivable plus $7.5 million of eligible inventory less certain allowances established against such accounts receivable and inventory by Wells Fargo from time to time pursuant to the Wells Fargo Facility, plus (ii) unrestricted cash held in a Wells Fargo deposit account (“Qualified Cash”), plus (iii) the amount of the Ares Letter of Credit Facility. On April 1, 2013, Wells Fargo agreed to extend the maturity date of the Wells Fargo ABL from November 22, 2013 to April 12, 2014. In addition, Ares Capital agreed to extend the maturity date of the Ares Letter of Credit Facility from February 20, 2014 to April 2, 2014. As of December 31, 2012, the balance outstanding on the Wells Fargo ABL was approximately $1.5 million and we had approximately $48.5 million of additional borrowing capacity. We have experienced limited access to the capital and credit markets, and it remains uncertain whether we will be able to obtain outside capital when we need it or on terms that would be acceptable to us. We have historically been dependent on affiliates of Pegasus Capital for our liquidity needs because other sources of liquidity have been insufficient or unavailable to meet our needs. If we are able to raise funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exercisable into our common stock, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we are unable to obtain sufficient outside capital when needed, our business and future prospects will be adversely affected and we could be forced to suspend or discontinue operations. If we are unable to manage any future growth effectively, our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected. Our recent growth has placed significant strain on our limited research and development, sales and marketing, operational and administrative resources and our projected growth may continue to challenge these resources. To manage any future growth, we must continue to improve our operational and financial systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. We also need to improve our supply chain management and quality control operations and hire and train new employees, including sales and customer service representatives and operations managers. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our profitability and liquidity could be adversely affected. We may experience difficulties in the consolidation of our manufacturing facilities and transfer of production capabilities to our contract manufacturer. We continue to streamline our operations as we wind down operations at our manufacturing facility in Mexico and transfer more of our manufacturing processes to our contract manufacturer in Mexico. However, we will only benefit from such transition to the extent that we can effectively leverage assets, personnel, and operating processes in the transition of manufacturing processes. Uncertainty is inherent within the facility consolidation process, and unforeseen circumstances could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt service to customers and impact product quality. If our developed technology or technology under development does not achieve market acceptance, prospects for our growth and profitability would be limited. Our future success depends on continued market acceptance of our LED technology and the technology currently under development. Although adoption of LED lighting continues to grow, adoption of LED lighting products for general illumination is in its early stages, is still limited and faces significant challenges. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt LED lighting products as an alternative to traditional lighting technology because of its higher initial cost or perceived risks relating to its novelty, reliability, usefulness, light quality and cost-effectiveness when compared to other established lighting sources available in the market. Changes in economic and market conditions may also affect the marketability of some traditional lighting technologies such as declining energy prices in certain regions or countries may favor existing lighting technologies that are less energy efficient, reducing the rate of adoption for LED lighting products in those areas. Moreover, if existing sources of light other than LED lighting products achieve or maintain greater market adoption, or if new sources of light are developed, our current products and technologies could become less competitive or obsolete. Even if LED lighting products continue to achieve performance improvements and cost reductions, limited customer awareness of the benefits of LED lighting products, lack of widely accepted standards governing LED lighting products and customer unwillingness to adopt LED lighting products in favor of entrenched solutions could significantly limit the demand for LED lighting products and adversely impact our results of operations. The LED lighting industry is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, product obsolescence, price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and fluctuations in supply and demand. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these changes and fluctuations, our sales, gross margins and profitability will be adversely affected. In the LED lighting industry, rapid technological changes and short product life cycles often lead to price erosion and product obsolescence. Companies within the LED lighting industry are continuously developing new products with heightened performance and functionality, putting pricing pressure on existing products. Further, the industry has experienced significant fluctuations, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, product cycles and changes in general economic conditions. These fluctuations have been characterized by lower product demand, production overcapacity, higher inventory levels and increased pricing pressure. Our failure to accurately anticipate the introduction of new technologies or adapt to fluctuations in the industry can, as it has in the past, lead to our having significant amounts of obsolete inventory that 6 Table of Contents can only be sold at substantially lower prices and profit margins than anticipated. Pricing pressure and obsolescence also cause the stated value of our inventory to decline. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we recorded an inventory valuation allowance of $15.8 and $20.5 million, respectively, and a provision for expected losses on non-cancellable purchase commitments of $5.6 and $8.5 million, respectively. In addition, if we are unable to develop planned new technologies, we may be unable to compete effectively due to our failure to offer products most demanded by the marketplace. If any of these failures occur, our sales, gross margins and profitability will be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively develop, manage and expand our sales and distribution channels for our products, our operating results may suffer. We sell a substantial portion of our products to retailers and OEMs who then sell our products on a co-branded or private label basis. Orders from our retail and OEM customers are dependent upon their internal target inventory levels for our products which can vary significantly based upon current and projected market cycles and other factors over which we typically have very little, if any, control. We rely on these retailers and OEMs to develop and expand the customer base for our products and to accurately forecast demand from their customers. If they are not successful in either task, our growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. We rely on our relationship with The Home Depot, and the loss of this material relationship or any other significant relationship would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our future growth prospects and our ability to distribute our products. We form business relationships and strategic alliances with retailers and other lighting companies to market our products, generally under private or co-branded labels. In certain cases, such relationships are important to our introduction of new products and services, and we may not be able to successfully collaborate or achieve expected synergies with these retailers or lighting companies. We do not control these retailers or lighting companies and they may make decisions regarding their business undertakings with us that may be contrary to our interests, or may terminate their relationships with us altogether. In addition, if these retailers or lighting companies change their business strategies, for example due to business volume fluctuations, mergers and acquisitions and/or performance issues, fail to pay or terminate the relationship altogether, our business could be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Osram Sylvania and The Home Depot accounted for 21% and 48% of our net sales, respectively. Our Master Supply Agreement with Osram Sylvania has an initial term that expires in April 2013 but may be terminated earlier by Osram Sylvania in certain instances, including upon a change of control or in the event of a default by us. In late 2012, Osram Sylvania significantly decreased its purchases of our products and we do not expect it to be a significant customer in 2013. While we anticipate The Home Depot will remain a significant customer in 2013, our contractual commitment with The Home Depot is also not long term in nature. Specifically, our Strategic Purchasing Agreement with The Home Depot has an initial term that expires in July 2013 but may be terminated earlier by The Home Depot for any reason upon 180 days written notice to us. A loss of The Home Depot as a customer or a significant decline in their purchases or their failure to pay us would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our future growth prospects and our ability to distribute our products. The Home Depot has required, and we expect will continue to require, increased service and order accommodations as well as incremental promotional investments. We may face increased expenses to meet these demands, which would reduce our margins. In addition, we generally have little or no influence on The Home Depot’s promotional or pricing policies, which may impact our sales volume to them. In addition, our Strategic Purchasing Agreement with The Home Depot does not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of products from us, although we issued a Warrant to The Home Depot that included incentive-based vesting conditions through 2015 based on annual 20% increases in product purchases made under the Strategic Purchasing Agreement. For both 2011 and 2012, the 20% volume increase was reached and The Home Depot vested in warrants to purchase a total of 2,049,426 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.95 per share. Our sales are materially affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of these customers and such fluctuations may result from general economic conditions or other factors. We may be unable to profitably manufacture our products in this competitive pricing environment. Aggressive pricing actions by our competitors may affect our growth prospects and profitability. We may not be able to increase prices to cover rising costs of components and raw materials. Even if we were able to increase prices to cover costs, competitive pricing pressures may not allow us to pass on any more than the cost increases. Even if component and raw material costs were to decline, lower prices offered by competitors may not allow us to hold prices at their current levels, which could negatively impact both net sales and gross margins. 7 Table of Contents Our products may contain defects that could reduce sales, result in costs associated with the recall of those items and result in claims against us. The manufacture of our products involves highly complex processes. Despite testing by us and our customers, defects have been and could be found in our existing or future products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair costs. The costs associated with a recall may divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers and our reputation in the marketplace. We generally provide a five year warranty on our products, and such warranty may require us to repair, replace or reimburse the purchaser for the purchase price of the product, at our discretion. Moreover, even if our products meet standard specifications, our customers may attempt to use our products in applications they were not designed for or in products that were not designed or manufactured properly, resulting in product failures and creating customer dissatisfaction. These problems could result in, among other things, a delay in the recognition or loss of revenue, loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. Defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could also result in personal injury or financial or other damages to our customers for which they might seek legal recourse against us. We may be the target of product liability lawsuits and could suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us if the use of our products at issue is determined to have caused injury. A significant product recall or product liability case could also adversely affect our results of operations and result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation and a loss of customer confidence in our products. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products at our own facility or with our contract manufacturer in a cost effective and timely manner, we may incur delays in shipment and our revenue and reputation in the marketplace could be harmed. An important part of our business plan is the expansion of production capacity for our products. In order to fulfill anticipated demand for our products, we invest in capacity in advance of actual customer orders, typically based on preliminary, non-binding indications of future demand. As customer demand for our products changes, we must be able to adjust our production capacity to meet demand while keeping costs down. Our recent decision to transition more of our manufacturing away from our manufacturing facility in Mexico to our contract manufacturer, as well as our plans to expand to other contract manufacturers, may subject us to additional risks as we scale these operations. Uncertainty is inherent within our facility and capacity expansion, and unforeseen circumstances could offset the anticipated benefits, disrupt our ability to provide products to our customers and impact product quality. Our ability to successfully increase or obtain production capacity in a cost effective and timely manner will depend on a number of factors, including the following: • our ability to sustain relationships with key contract manufacturers without disruption and the ability of contract manufacturers to allocate more of their existing capacity to us or their ability to add new capacity quickly; • the ability of any future contract manufacturers to successfully implement our manufacturing processes; • the availability of critical components and subsystems used in the manufacture of our products; • our ability to effectively establish adequate management information systems, financial controls and supply chain management and quality control procedures; and • the occurrence of equipment failures, power outages, environmental risks or variations in the manufacturing process. If we are unable to increase production capacity for our products in a cost effective and timely manner while maintaining adequate quality, we may incur delays in shipment or be unable to meet increased demand for our products, which could harm our revenue and operating margins and damage our reputation and our relationships with current and prospective customers. Conversely, due to the proportionately high fixed cost nature of our business, if demand does not increase at the rate forecasted, we may not be able to reduce manufacturing expenses or overhead costs at the same rate as demand decreases, which could also result in lower margins and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our recent issuances of Series H Convertible Preferred Stock and Series I Convertible Preferred Stock may limit our ability to raise additional capital and/or take certain corporate action. Between May 25 and September 25, 2012, we issued an aggregate of 114,051 shares of our Series H Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share (“Series H Preferred Stock”) and 62,365 shares of our Series I Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share (“Series I Preferred Stock”, together with the Series H Preferred Stock, the “Preferred Shares”). The Certificates of Designation governing the Preferred Shares limit our ability to take certain actions, including, among other things: • redeem, reacquire, pay dividends or make other distributions on our securities; • engage in any recapitalization, merger, consolidation, reorganization or similar transaction; 8 Table of Contents • incur any indebtedness (A) in excess of $10.0 million; or (B) containing any provision that limits our ability to redeem any Preferred Shares for a period that exceeds that contained in the Wells Fargo Facility or Ares Letter of Credit Facility; • issue any equity securities having an aggregate value in excess of $15.0 million; • enter into any new agreements or transactions with any of our affiliates or any holder of five percent (5%) or more of our common stock or any affiliates of any such stockholder or amend or modify the terms of any such agreements then-existing; • acquire, license, transfer, or sell any property, rights or assets or enter into any joint venture where (A) the aggregate consideration to be paid or received, or (B) the fair market value of the relevant property, rights or assets, exceeds $5.0 million; and • appoint or remove our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Technology Officer (or equivalents thereof) or determine or modify any compensation or establish any compensation performance targets for any such officer. Further, the Certificates of Designation governing the Preferred Shares require us to have consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”) that is at least break even for the year ended December 31, 2013 and EBITDA of at least $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. A breach of the terms of the Preferred Shares could entitle each holder to redeem their Preferred Shares, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. If we do not properly anticipate the need for critical raw materials, components and subsystems, we may be unable to meet the demands of our customers and end-users, which could reduce our competitiveness, cause a decline in our market share and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The lighting industry is subject to significant fluctuations in the availability of raw materials, components and subsystems. We depend on our suppliers for certain standard electronic components as well as custom components critical to the manufacture of our lighting devices. The principal raw materials and components used in the manufacture of our products are packaged LEDs and printed circuit boards, MOSFETS, magnetic and standard electrical components such as capacitors, resistors and diodes, wire, plastics for optical systems and aluminum for housings and heat sinks. We currently rely on a select number of suppliers for packaged LEDs used in the production of our products. From time to time, packaged LEDs and electronic components have been in short supply due to demand and production constraints. We depend on our vendors to supply, in a timely manner, critical components and subsystems in adequate quantities and consistent quality and at reasonable costs. Finding a suitable alternate supply of required components and subsystems that meet our strict specifications and obtaining them in needed quantities may be a time-consuming process, and we may not be able to find an adequate alternative source of supply at an acceptable cost. Any significant interruption in the supply of these raw materials, components and subsystems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We utilize a contract manufacturer to manufacture certain of our products and any disruption in this relationship may cause us to fail to meet our customers’ demands and may damage our customer relationships and adversely affect our business. Although we assemble and manufacture certain of our products, we currently depend on our contract manufacturer in Mexico to manufacture a portion of our products. In 2012, we determined to shift away from internal manufacturing and, therefore, are increasingly reliant on contract manufacturing to bring our products to market. Contract manufacturers provide the necessary facility and labor to manufacture these products, which are primarily high volume products and components that we intend to distribute to customers in North America. Our reliance on contract manufacturers involve certain risks, including the following: • lack of direct control over production capacity and delivery schedules; • risk of equipment failures, natural disasters, civil unrest, industrial accidents, power outages and other business interruptions; • lack of direct control over quality assurance and manufacturing yield; and • risk of loss of inventory while in transit. If our current contract manufacturer or any other contract manufacturers we may engage in the future were to terminate their arrangement with us or fail to provide the required capacity and quality on a timely basis, we would experience delays in the manufacture and shipment of our products until alternative manufacturing services could be contracted or offsetting internal manufacturing processes could be implemented. Any significant shortages or interruption may cause us to be unable to timely deliver sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy our contractual obligations and particular revenue expectations. Moreover, even if we timely locate substitute products, if their price materially exceeds the original expected cost of such products, our margins and results of operations would be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Furthermore, to qualify new contract manufacturers, familiarize them with our products, quality standards and other requirements and commence volume production may be a costly and time-consuming process. If we are required or choose to change contract manufacturers for any reason, our revenue, gross margins and customer relationships could be adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive and if we are not able to compete effectively, including against larger lighting manufacturers with greater resources, our prospects for future success will be jeopardized. Our industry is highly competitive. We face competition from both traditional lighting technologies provided by numerous vendors as well as from LED-based lighting products provided by a growing roster of industry participants. The LED lighting industry is characterized by rapid technological change, short product lifecycles and frequent new product introductions, and a competitive pricing environment. These characteristics increase the need for continual innovation and provide entry points for new competitors as well as opportunities for rapid share shifts. Currently, we view our primary competition to be from large, established companies in the traditional general lighting industry. Certain of these companies also provide, or have undertaken initiatives to develop, LED lighting products as well as other energy efficient lighting products. Additionally, we face competition from a fragmented group of smaller niche or low-cost offshore providers of LED lighting products. We also anticipate that larger LED chip manufacturers, including some of those that currently supply us, may seek to compete with us by introducing more complete retrofit lamps or luminaires. We also expect other large technology players with packaged LED chip technology that are currently focused on other end markets for LEDs, such as backlighting for LCD displays, to increasingly focus on the general illumination market as their existing markets saturate and LED use in general illumination grows. In addition, we may compete in the future with vendors of new technological solutions for energy efficient lighting. Some of our current and future competitors are larger companies with greater resources to devote to research and development, manufacturing and marketing, as well as greater brand name recognition. Some of our more diversified competitors could also compete more aggressively with us by subsidizing losses in their LED lighting businesses with profits from other lines of business. Moreover, if one or more of our competitors or suppliers were to merge with one another, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our customer, channel or supplier relationships, or our competitive position. Additionally, any loss of a key channel partner, whether to a competitor or otherwise, could severely and rapidly damage our competitive position. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Osram Sylvania accounted for 21% of our net sales but we do not expect Osram Sylvania to be a significant customer in 2013. To the extent that competition in our markets intensifies, we may be required to reduce our prices in order to remain competitive. If we do not compete effectively, or if we reduce our prices without making commensurate reductions in our costs, our revenue, gross margins and profitability and our future prospects for success, may be harmed. Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period due to unpredictable sales cycles in certain of the markets into which we sell our products, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. The size and timing of our revenue from sales to our customers is difficult to predict and is market dependent. Our revenue in each period may also vary significantly as a result of purchases, or lack thereof, by The Home Depot or other significant customers. Because most of our operating and capital expenses are incurred based on the estimated number of product purchases and their timing, they are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if our revenue falls below our expectations or is delayed in any period, we may not be able to proportionately reduce our operating expenses or manufacturing costs for that period, and any reduction of manufacturing capacity could have long-term implications on our ability to accommodate future demand. As a result of these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our debt obligations contain restrictions that impact our business and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. On November 22, 2010, we entered into the Wells Fargo ABL, which has a term of three years and currently provides us with a maximum borrowing capacity of $50.0 million. On September 20, 2011, we entered into the Ares Letter of Credit Facility, which has a term of three years and provides us with a $25.0 million letter of credit issued in favor of Wells Fargo that is used in its entirety to support $25.0 million of the Wells Fargo ABL borrowing capacity. The Wells Fargo ABL borrowing base is comprised of (i) up to 85% of our applicable and eligible inventory and accounts receivable plus qualified cash, plus (ii) the amount of pledged letters of credit provided by Ares Capital in favor of Wells Fargo under our Ares Letter of Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2012, the balance outstanding on the Wells Fargo ABL was $1.5 million and we had $48.5 million of additional borrowing capacity. Under the Wells Fargo ABL, we are required to pay 10 Table of Contents certain fees to Wells Fargo, including an unused line fee ranging from 0.375% to 1.0% of the unused portion of the facility. Outstanding loans may be prepaid without penalty or premium, except that we are required to pay a termination fee ranging from $250,000 to $500,000 (depending on the date of termination) if the Wells Fargo ABL is terminated by us prior to the scheduled maturity date or by Wells Fargo during a default period. Under the Ares Letter of Credit Facility, we are required to pay certain fees to Ares Capital, including a fronting fee equal to 0.75% of the average daily undrawn face amount of the pledged letter of credit and a letter of credit fee of 10.0% of the average daily undrawn face amount of the pledged letter of credit. Borrowings under the Wells Fargo ABL and the Ares Letter of Credit Facility are secured by substantially all of our assets. All of our existing and future domestic subsidiaries are required to guaranty our obligations and pledge their assets to secure the repayment of our obligations under the Wells Fargo ABL, on a first lien basis, and under the Ares Letter of Credit Facility, on a second lien basis. The Wells Fargo ABL contains customary covenants, which limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or guarantee indebtedness of others; • create liens on our assets; • enter into mergers or consolidations; • dispose of assets; • prepay indebtedness or make changes to our governing documents and certain of our agreements; • pay cash dividends or make other distributions on our capital stock, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • make investments, including acquisitions; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. We are also required to maintain a minimum of $5.0 million of qualified cash, minimum excess borrowing availability of $5.0 million and would be required to comply with certain specified EBITDA requirements in the event that we have less than $2.0 million available for borrowing on the Wells Fargo ABL. The Wells Fargo ABL also contains customary events of default and affirmative covenants. The Ares Letter of Credit Facility contains similar covenants but we are not required to separately comply with such covenants so long as the pledged letter of credit remains undrawn. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds necessary to make required payments under the Wells Fargo ABL and the Ares Letter of Credit Facility, or if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness, we could default under these facilities. Any default that is not cured or waived could result in the acceleration of the obligations under these facilities, an increase in the applicable interest rate under these facilities and a requirement that our subsidiaries that have guaranteed these facilities pay the obligations in full, and would permit our lenders to exercise remedies with respect to all of the collateral securing these facilities, including substantially all of our and our subsidiary guarantors’ assets. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Additionally, the covenants in such agreements or future debt agreements may restrict the conduct of our business, which could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to the business. If we are unable to obtain and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to commercialize our products could be substantially limited. As of December 31, 2012, we had filed 239 U.S. patent applications covering various inventions related to the design and manufacture of LED lighting technology. From these applications, 132 U.S. patents had been issued, 87 were pending approval and 20 were no longer active. When we believe it is appropriate and cost effective, we make corresponding international, regional or national filings to pursue patent protection in other parts of the world. Our patent applications may not be granted. Because patents involve complex legal, technical and factual questions, the issuance, scope, validity and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Competitors may develop products similar to our products that do not conflict with our patent rights. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. In some cases, we may rely on confidentiality agreements or trade secret protections to protect our proprietary technology. Such agreements, however, may not be honored and particular elements of our proprietary technology may not qualify as protectable trade secrets under applicable law. In addition, others may independently develop similar or superior technology, and in the absence of applicable prior patents, we would have no recourse against them. 11 Table of Contents Our business may be impaired by claims that we, or our customers, infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. Our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. These traits have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. In addition, we may inadvertently infringe on patents or rights owned by others and licenses might not be available to us on reasonable or acceptable terms or at all. Litigation to determine the validity of patents or claims by third parties of infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights could result in significant legal expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, even if the litigation results in a determination favorable to us. Third parties have and may in the future attempt to assert infringement claims against us, or our customers, with respect to our products. In the event of an adverse result in such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages; stop the manufacture, use and sale of products found to be infringing; incur asset impairment charges; discontinue the use of processes found to be infringing; expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products or processes; or obtain a license to use third party technology and whether or not the result is adverse to us, we may have to indemnify our customers if they were brought into the litigation. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our stock price. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could cause investors to lose confidence in our operating results, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock. Because of our status as a smaller reporting company registrant as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing our financial statements has not been required to attest to, and report on, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. For the year ended December 31, 2012 we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in achieving management’s desired controls and procedures objectives in our internal control over financial reporting. However, during the evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective in reaching a reasonable level of assurance of achieving management’s desired controls and procedures objectives in our internal control over financial reporting. We believe that many of the previously observed material weaknesses resulted from our position as a small company with immature processes and inadequate staffing in our financial accounting and reporting functions to support our rapid growth. Over the last few years we have endeavored to enhance our reporting and control standards to accommodate this growth and believe this has been achieved. We plan to continue to assess our internal controls and procedures and intend to take further action as necessary or appropriate to address any other deficiencies we may identify. The process of designing and implementing effective internal controls and procedures is a continuous effort, however, that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and economic and regulatory environments. Additionally, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify additional deficiencies or weaknesses. Complying with the requirements to maintain internal controls may place a strain on our personnel, information technology systems and resources and divert managements attention from other business concerns. Certification and compliance are important to the sale and adoption of our lighting products, and failure to obtain such certification or compliance would harm our business. We are required to comply with certain legal requirements governing the materials used in our products. Although we are not aware of any efforts to amend existing legal requirements or implement new legal requirements in a manner with which we cannot comply, our revenue might be materially harmed if such changes were to occur. Moreover, although not legally required to do so, we strive to obtain certification for substantially all of our products. In the United States, we seek, and to date have obtained, certification for substantially all of our products from UL. We design our products to be UL/cUL and Federal Communications Commission compliant. We have also obtained ENERGY STAR qualification for 139 of the products that we were producing as of December 31, 2012. Although we believe that our broad knowledge and experience with electrical codes and safety standards have facilitated certification approvals, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain any such certifications for our new products or that, if certification standards are amended, we will be able to maintain any such certifications for our existing products, especially since virtually all existing codes and standards were not created with LED lighting products in mind. The failure to obtain such certifications or compliance could harm our business. 12 Table of Contents The reduction or elimination of investments in, or incentives to adopt, LED lighting or the elimination of, or changes in, policies, incentives or rebates in certain states or countries that encourage the use of LEDs over some traditional lighting technologies could cause the growth in demand for our products to slow, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue, profits and margins. We believe the near-term growth of the LED market will be accelerated by government policies in certain countries that either directly promote the use of LEDs or discourage the use of some traditional lighting technologies. Today, the upfront cost of LED lighting exceeds the upfront cost for some traditional lighting technologies that provide similar lumen output in many applications. However, some governments around the world have used policy initiatives to accelerate the development and adoption of LED lighting and other non-traditional lighting technologies that are seen as more environmentally friendly compared to some traditional lighting technologies. Reductions in (including as a result of any budgetary constraints), or the elimination of, government investment and favorable energy policies could result in decreased demand for our products and decrease our revenue, profits and margins. Further, if our products fail to qualify for any financial incentives or rebates provided by governmental agencies or utilities for which our competitors’ products qualify, such programs may diminish or eliminate our ability to compete by offering products at lower prices than our competitors. We assemble and manufacture certain of our products and our sales, results of operations and reputation could be materially adversely affected if there is a disruption at our assembly and manufacturing facilities. Our internal assembly and manufacturing operations for our products are currently based in Satellite Beach, Florida and Monterrey, Mexico. In 2012, we announced plans to transition our manufacturing production in Monterrey to our contract manufacturer by March 2013. The operation of these facilities involves many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, civil unrest, industrial accidents, power outages and other business interruptions. We could incur significant costs to maintain compliance with, or due to liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could lead to significant fines and penalties. Although we carry business interruption insurance and third-party liability insurance to cover certain claims in respect of personal injury or property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties or relating to our operations, our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any interruption in our ability to assemble, manufacture or distribute our products could result in lost sales, limited revenue growth and damage to our reputation in the market, all of which would adversely affect our business. Additionally, we rely on arrangements with independent shipping companies, such as United Parcel Service, Inc. and Federal Express Corp., for the delivery of certain components and subsystems from vendors and products to our customers in both the United States and abroad. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to timely deliver components, subsystems or products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges due to rising fuel costs or added security. Changes in the mix of products we sell during a period could have an impact on our results of operations. Our profitability from period-to-period may also vary significantly due to the mix of products that we sell in different periods. As we expand our product offerings we expect to sell more retrofit lamps and luminaires into additional target markets. These products are likely to have different cost profiles and will be sold into markets governed by different business dynamics. Consequently, sales of individual products may not necessarily be consistent across periods, which could affect product mix and cause gross and operating profits to vary significantly. Given the potentially large size of purchase orders for our products, particularly in the infrastructure market, the loss of or delay in the signing of a customer order could significantly reduce our revenue in any period. In addition, we spend substantial amounts of time and money on our efforts to educate our customers about the use and benefits of our products, including their technical and performance characteristics, and these investments may not produce any sales within expected time frames or at all. 13 Table of Contents We rely upon key members of our management team and other key personnel and a loss of key personnel could prevent or significantly delay the achievement of our goals. Our success will depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued services of key members of our management team including Jeremy Cage, Frederic Maxik and Thomas Shields, as well as other key personnel. The loss of these key members of our management team or other key personnel could prevent or significantly delay the implementation of our business plan, research and development and marketing efforts. In particular, Frederic Maxik is critical to our research and development efforts. If we continue to grow, we will need to add additional management and other personnel. Our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel and our efforts to obtain or retain such personnel may not be successful. Our international operations are subject to legal, political and economic risks. Our financial condition, operating results and future growth could be significantly affected by risks associated with our international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies, differing business cultures, foreign regulations that may conflict with domestic regulations, intellectual property protection and trade secret risks, differing contracting process including the ability to enforce agreements, increased dependence on foreign manufacturers, shippers and distributors and import and export restrictions and tariffs. Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls, anti-money laundering and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. We have not implemented formal policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition or operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock has been thinly traded and an active trading market may not develop. The trading volume of our common stock has historically been low, partially because we are not listed on an exchange and our common stock is only traded on the over-the-counter bulletin board (the “OTC Bulletin Board”). In addition, our public float has been further limited due to the fact that the vast majority of our outstanding common stock has historically been beneficially owned by affiliates of Pegasus Capital. Until we initiate a public offering of our common stock or are approved for listing on a national exchange, a more active trading market for our common stock may not develop, or if developed, may not continue, and a holder of any of our securities may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. We are controlled by Pegasus Capital, whose interests in our business may be different from yours. Affiliates of Pegasus Capital beneficially owned approximately 81.1% of our common stock as of March 22, 2013. As a result of this ownership, Pegasus Capital has a controlling influence on our affairs and its voting power constitutes a quorum of our stockholders voting on any matter requiring the approval of our stockholders. Such matters include the nomination and election of directors, the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock or payment of dividends, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Pegasus Capital may cause corporate actions to be taken even if the interests of Pegasus Capital conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. 14 Table of Contents If we applied and our shares were approved for listing on a national stock exchange, we intend to elect to be considered a “controlled company” which would exempt us from certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirement that a majority of our board of directors meet the specified standards of independence and the exemption from the requirement that we have a compensation and governance committee made up entirely of directors who meet such independence standards. Such independence standards are intended to ensure that directors who meet the independence standard are free of any conflicting interest that could influence their actions as directors. It is possible that the interests of Pegasus Capital may in some circumstances conflict with our interests and the interests of our other stockholders, including you. Because our stock price is volatile, it can be difficult for stockholders to predict the value of our shares at any given time. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile, which makes it difficult for stockholders to assess or predict the value of their shares. A number of factors may affect the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to: • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in laws and government regulations; • developments concerning our proprietary rights; • public perception relating to the commercial value or reliability of any of our lighting products; • future sales of our common stock or issues of other equity securities convertible into or exercisable for the purchase of common stock; • our involvement in litigation; • the acquisition or divestiture by Pegasus Capital or its affiliates of part or all of its holdings; and • general stock market conditions. Securities analysts may not provide coverage of our common stock or may issue negative reports, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Securities analysts have not historically provided research coverage of our common stock and may elect not to do so in the future. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The trading market for our common stock may be affected in part by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about our business. If one or more of the analysts who elects to cover us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline substantially. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. In addition, rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and a global settlement reached in 2003 between the SEC, other regulatory agencies and a number of investment banks have led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms are required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies such as ours, with smaller market capitalizations, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock. This could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. We do not intend to pay cash dividends and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have a history of losses and currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. In addition, the terms of the Wells Fargo ABL restrict our ability to pay cash dividends and any future credit facilities or loan agreements may further restrict our ability to pay cash dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. 15 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Anti-takeover provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring or delaying attempts by our stockholders to remove or replace management, engage in proxy contests and effect changes in control. The provisions of our charter documents include: • procedures for advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals; • the inability of less than a majority of our stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders; • the ability of our board of directors to create new directorships and to fill any vacancies on the board of directors; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; and • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval upon the terms and conditions and with the rights, privileges and preferences as our board of directors may determine. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder unless certain specific requirements are met as set forth in Section 203. These provisions, alone or together, could have the effect of deterring or delaying changes in incumbent management, proxy contests or changes in control. Future sales or the possibility of future sales of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of shares of our common stock. Future sales or the availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. We may issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time to raise capital to fund our operating expenses pursuant to the exercise of outstanding stock options or warrants or as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. If any such issuance, acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be substantial. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares of our common stock or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued in connection with an acquisition or by Pegasus Capital or its affiliates), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 