Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in us or maintain or increase your investment. The 14 Table of Contents risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem not significant may also affect our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to the Proposed Acquisition by Hewlett-Packard Company Our business and results of operations are likely to be affected by our announced acquisition by Hewlett-Packard Company (HP). On July 25, 2006, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with HP and Mars Landing Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HP (Merger Sub). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, and upon the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, on August 17, 2006, Merger Sub commenced a cash tender offer (the Offer) for all of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, par value of $0.002 per share, at a purchase price of $52.00 per share (the Offer Price). As soon as practicable after the consummation of the Offer, Merger Sub will merge with and into us (the Merger) and we will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of HP. In the merger, the remaining stockholders of Mercury, other than such stockholders who have validly exercised their appraisal rights under the Delaware General Corporation Law, will be entitled to receive the Offer Price per share. The announcement of the acquisition could have an adverse effect on our revenue in the near term if customers delay, defer or cancel purchases pending consummation of the planned acquisition. Although we are attempting to mitigate this risk through communications with our customers, current and prospective customers could be reluctant to purchase our products or services due to uncertainty about the direction of the combined company’s product offerings and its support and service of existing products. To the extent that our announcement of the acquisition creates uncertainty among customers such that one large customer, or a significant number of smaller customers, delay purchase decisions pending consummation of the planned acquisition, our results of operations could be negatively affected. Decreased revenue could have a variety of adverse effects, including negative consequences to our relationships with customers, suppliers, resellers and others. In addition, our quarterly results of operations could be below the expectations of market analysts, which could cause a decline in our stock price. Finally, activities relating to the acquisition and related uncertainties could divert our management’s and our employees’ attention from our day-to-day business, cause disruptions among our relationships with customers and business partners, and cause employees to seek alternative employment, all of which could detract from our ability to generate revenue and control costs. If the conditions to the proposed acquisition by HP set forth in the Merger Agreement are not met, the acquisition may not occur. The obligation of Merger Sub to accept for payment and pay for the shares tendered in the Offer is subject to a number of conditions described in the Merger Agreement, including among others, the receipt of various material antitrust or merger control approvals. In addition, HP’s acceptance of the tendered shares is subject to HP’s ownership, following such acceptance, of at least a majority of all then-outstanding shares of our common stock. The closing of the merger is also subject to customary closing conditions, and, depending on the number of shares held by HP after its acceptance of the shares properly tendered in connection with the Offer, approval of the merger by the holders of the Company’s outstanding shares remaining after the completion of the offer also may be required. These conditions are set forth in detail in the Merger Agreement, which we have previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We cannot assure you that each of the conditions will be satisfied. If the conditions are not satisfied or waived, the proposed merger will not occur or will be delayed, and the market price of common stock could decline. Failure to complete the proposed acquisition by HP would negatively affect our future business and operations. If the sale of Mercury to HP is not completed, we could suffer a number of consequences that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and stock price, including the following: • activities relating to the acquisition and related uncertainties may lead to a loss of revenue and market position that we may not be able to regain if the acquisition does not occur; • the market price of our common stock could decline following an announcement that the acquisition has been abandoned; 15 Table of Contents • we could be required to pay HP a termination fee of $170.0 million under the circumstances described in the Merger Agreement; • we would remain liable for our costs related to the acquisition, such as legal and accounting fees and a portion of our investment banking fees; • we may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures; • we may not be able to retain key employees; and • we may not be able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting due to employee departures. In addition to the above risks, our recent announcement of the proposed sale of Mercury to HP may intensify the risks set forth below. Risk Related to the Restatement of Our Prior Financial Results The Special Committee investigation, our internal review of our historical financial statements, the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, investigations by the SEC and related events have had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on us. In November 2004, the Company was contacted by the SEC as part of an informal inquiry entitled In the Matter of Certain Option Grants (SEC File No. MHO-9858) which was converted to a formal proceeding in the fall of 2005. In June 2005, we formed a Special Committee of disinterested directors to investigate and address the Company’s past stock option practices. In August 2005, the Special Committee concluded that the actual dates of determination for certain past stock option grants differed from the originally stated grant dates for such awards. Because the prices at the originally stated grant dates were lower than the prices on the actual dates of the determination, we determined we should have recognized material amounts of stock-based compensation expense which were not accounted for in our previously issued financial statements. Therefore, our Board of Directors concluded that our previously issued unaudited interim and audited annual consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, as well as the unaudited interim financial statements for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005, should no longer be relied upon because these financial statements contained misstatements and would need to be restated. On November 2, 2005, we announced that the Special Committee had made certain determinations as a result of its review and that our Board of Directors had accepted the resignations of our then CEO, CFO and General Counsel (Prior Management). In November 2005, following the resignation of Prior Management, our Board of Directors expanded the mandate of the Special Committee. The Special Committee was requested to work in conjunction with the Company to conduct a supplemental review of the principal financial reporting control areas of the Company and the key individuals functioning in these areas during the relevant time periods. The purpose of the supplemental review was to determine whether the work previously performed by the Company could be relied upon with respect to matters other than the stock option related matters that were the subject of the Special Committee’s initial efforts (Recertification Procedures). As a result of the Special Committee’s investigation and Recertification Procedures, as well as our internal review of our historical financial statements, we have restated our financial statements for the three years ended December 31, 2004, and for the first quarter ended March 31, 2005. The restated financial information, the changes made from the applicable originally filed financial information, and a summary of findings made by the Special Committee and our review, are contained in our Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2004, and our Amended Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. As a result of the events described above, we have become subject to the following significant risks, each of which is described in more detail below. Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • we are subject to an ongoing investigation by the SEC which has required significant management time and attention and caused us to incur significant accounting and legal expense and which could require us 16 Table of Contents to pay substantial fines or other penalties. In addition, there are material proceedings against our directors and officers, as individuals, and Dr. Kohavi, Mr. Shamir, and Dr. Yaron have each received “Wells” notices from the SEC. See Note 18 “Subsequent Events” to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; • we are subject to significant pending civil litigation, including shareholder class actions lawsuits and derivative claims made on behalf of us, the defense of which will require us to devote significant management attention and to incur significant legal expense and which litigation, if decided against us, could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties; • we are subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions; • our restatement, related litigation, and related restructuring of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2007 and Zero Coupon Senior Convertible Notes due 2008 (together, the “Notes”) could result in substantial expenses and adversely affect our cash flows, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash from operations as such expenses arise; • many members of our senior management team and our Board of Directors have been and will be required to devote a significant amount of time on matters relating to the continuing SEC investigation, the restatement, our outstanding periodic reports, remedial efforts and related litigation; • we may be unable to effectively implement our plan to remediate the material weaknesses disclosed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures”; • we have been unable to remain current with the filing of our periodic reports with the SEC and our efforts to become current will require substantial management time and attention as well as additional accounting and legal expense; • as a result of the restatement and the delayed filing of our periodic reports, we were delisted from NASDAQ in January 2006 and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange; and • we face challenges in hiring and retaining qualified personnel due to the restatement, the related SEC and internal investigations and delisting from NASDAQ. We cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s formal investigation of our past stock option practices. The investigation has required, and may continue to require, significant management time and attention, as well as additional accounting and legal expense, and could result in civil and/or criminal actions seeking, among other things, injunctive and monetary relief from Mercury. The SEC’s formal investigation of our past stock option practices is ongoing. We continue to fully cooperate with the SEC and have provided the staff with extensive documentation relating to the Special Committee’s investigation and our internal review of our historical financial statements. The SEC investigation and requests for information have required significant management attention and resources. The period of time necessary to resolve the SEC investigation is uncertain, and these matters could require significant additional attention and resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. We have incurred substantial expenses with third parties for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with these matters and expect to continue to incur significant expenses in the future, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. On September 28, 2006, we announced that we had proposed a settlement to the staff of the SEC, which the staff has agreed to recommend to the SEC, to conclude for us the matters arising from the formal SEC investigation. We have proposed to pay a $35.0 million civil penalty and to consent to the entry of a final judgment by a federal court permanently enjoining the Company from violations of the antifraud and other provisions of the federal securities laws. The proposed settlement is contingent on the review and approval of final documentation by us and the staff of the SEC, and is subject to final approval by the SEC. We have expensed the amount as “Costs of restatement and related legal activities” in our consolidated statement of operations against “Accrued and other liabilities” in our consolidated balance sheets for the year ended December 31, 2005. As provided in the Merger Agreement with us, Hewlett-Packard has consented to the settlement offer and will also be required to approve 17 Table of Contents the final settlement documentation. We continue to cooperate with the SEC and other government agencies regarding this matter. There can be no assurance that our efforts to resolve the SEC’s investigation with respect to the Company will be successful, or that the amount reserved will be sufficient, and we cannot predict the timing or the final terms of any settlement. We have been named as a party to several class action and derivative action lawsuits arising from the Special Committee investigation and related restatements, and we may be named in additional litigation, all of which could require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses and may result in an unfavorable outcome which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the Special Committee investigation and related restatements of our historical financial statements, a number of securities class action complaints were filed on behalf of a class of our stockholders against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors, and a number of derivative actions were also filed against certain current and former directors and officers of the Company. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this report. The amount of time to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable, and defending ourselves may divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our total liabilities in any of these actions. In addition, we may be obligated to indemnify (and advance legal expenses to) former or current directors, officers or employees in accordance with the terms of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, other applicable agreements, and Delaware law. We currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although our insurance coverage may not be sufficient in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the underwriters of our directors and officers insurance policy may seek to rescind or otherwise deny coverage in some or all of these matters, in which case we may have to self-fund the indemnification amounts owed to such directors and officers. We are subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions in connection with the Special Committee investigation and related restatements. We have been responding to inquiries and providing information and documents related to stock option matters to the Internal Revenue Service and the United States Department of Justice. We have provided information related to findings with tax implications to the Internal Revenue Service, and are presently discussing possible settlement terms. We are also cooperating fully with the Department of Justice and intend to continue to do so. There is no assurance that other regulatory inquiries will not be commenced by other U.S. federal, state or foreign regulatory agencies. In addition, we may in the future be subject to additional litigation or other proceedings or actions arising in relation to the Special Committee investigation and the restatement of our prior period financial statements. Litigation and any potential regulatory proceeding or action may be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific lawsuit or any potential regulatory proceeding or action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our restatement, related litigation, and related restructuring of our Notes could result in substantial expenses and adversely affect our cash flows, and failure to generate sufficient cash as such expenses arise may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have incurred substantial expenses with third parties for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the Special Committee investigation, our internal review of our historical financial statements, the preparation of the restated financial statements, the SEC investigation and inquiries from other government agencies, the related class action and derivative litigation, and the amendments to the terms of our Notes as a result of our failure to timely file our Exchange Act reports with the SEC and the trustee for the Notes. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred $84.0 million of expenses related to these activities, including a proposed settlement of $35.0 million to the SEC, and we estimate that we incurred approximately $23.3 million of 18 Table of Contents expenses related to these activities in the six months ended June 30, 2006. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with these matters. Under the amendments to the terms of our Notes, if the put options granted to the holders of both series of Notes are exercised, we will be required to pay the face value of the Notes and an additional $36.3 million to the holders of the Zero Coupon Senior Convertible Notes due 2008 (2003 Notes) on October 31, 2006 or November 30, 2006 and $3.9 million to the holders of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2007 (2000 Notes) on March 1, 2007. In addition, in October 2005 we paid $7.1 million, in consideration for the waiver we obtained at that time, to the holders of the 2000 Notes. For further information about our Notes, see “—Leverage and debt service obligations for $800.0 million in outstanding Notes may adversely affect our cash flow and financial position.” We estimate that our available cash and cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund our operations and service our debt for at least the next twelve months. However, any settlement of the SEC investigation, the pending class action and derivative claims and potential taxes owed to the Internal Revenue Service, and the costs of becoming current with our periodic reports, will cause us to incur substantial expenses and could adversely affect our cash and cash flow from operations. If these expenses are of such significance that we are unable to meet our cash requirements out of cash flow from operations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain alternative funding on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In the absence of such financing, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, to make future acquisitions, to absorb adverse results of operations or to fund capital expenditures or increased working capital requirements would be significantly reduced. Many members of our senior management team and our Board of Directors have been and will be required to devote a significant amount of time on matters relating to the continuing SEC investigation, the restatement, our outstanding periodic reports remedial efforts and related litigation. Our senior management team and our Board of Directors have devoted a significant amount of time on matters relating to the continuing SEC investigation, the restatement, our outstanding periodic reports, remedial efforts and related litigation. In addition, certain members of our senior management team and our Board of Directors are named defendants in a number of lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws related to the SEC investigation and restatement. Defending these actions may require significant time and attention from members of our current senior management team and our Board of Directors. If our senior management is unable to devote a significant amount of time in the future developing and attaining our strategic business initiatives and running ongoing business operations, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, on June 23, 2006, the SEC Staff, as part of the “Wells” process by which the SEC Staff affords individuals and companies the opportunity to present their views regarding potential action by the SEC, advised counsel for directors Igal Kohavi, Yair Shamir and Giora Yaron that the SEC Staff is considering recommending that the Commission file a civil enforcement proceeding against each of these directors under applicable provisions of the federal securities laws. If charges are brought, the SEC may seek a permanent injunction against further violations of the securities laws, an order permanently barring these directors from serving as officers or directors of any SEC registered company (including Mercury Interactive), and civil monetary penalties. The charges under consideration would allege that each of these directors knew or should have known about the manipulation of grant dates and that each knew, or was reckless in not knowing, the impact that option backdating would have on our financial results. The directors have filed a Wells submission arguing that they did not violate the federal securities laws, that they did not participate in or know of option backdating, and that the charges under consideration are legally and factually without basis. Former officers are likely to receive or have received similar Wells notices. As described above, the formal SEC investigation of the Company is continuing. In light of the Wells notice, the aforementioned directors offered to withdraw from their respective positions on the applicable committees of the Company’s Board of Directors, and the Board accepted that offer. We may be unable to effectively implement our plan to remediate the material weaknesses which have been identified in our internal controls and procedures. As described in more detail in Item 9A, our internal investigation and the investigation conducted by the Special Committee identified material weaknesses in our 19 Table of Contents internal controls and procedures. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our management is committed to remediating the material weaknesses identified in Item 9A by implementing changes to the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Management, along with our Board of Directors, has implemented, or is in the process of implementing, a number of changes to the Company’s internal control systems and procedures which are described in detail in Item 9A. However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully implement our revised internal controls and procedures or that our revised controls and procedures will be effective in remedying all of the identified material weaknesses in our prior controls and procedures. In addition, we may be required to hire additional employees to help implement these changes, and may experience higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses during the implementation of these changes and thereafter. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or if other material weaknesses develop and we are unable to effectively address these matters, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been unable to remain current with the filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, and our efforts to become current may require substantial management time and attention as well as additional accounting and legal expense. As a result of our restatement we experienced significant delays in the filing of our periodic reports, and following the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we may need to file our now delinquent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2005 and the first and second quarters of 2006. Should those filings be required, the completion of these outstanding reports will require substantial management time and attention as well as additional accounting and legal expense. In addition, if we are unable to become current with our filings with the SEC, we may face several adverse consequences. If we are unable to remain current with our filings with the SEC, investors in our securities will not have information regarding our business and financial condition with which to make decisions regarding investment in our securities. In addition, we will not be able to have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, covering a public offering of securities, declared effective by the SEC, and will not be able to make offerings pursuant to existing registration statements pursuant to certain “private placement” rules of the SEC under Regulation D to any purchasers not qualifying as “accredited investors.” We also will not be eligible to use a “short form” registration statement on Form S-3 for a period of 12 months after the time we become current in our filings. These restrictions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange. As a result of the restatement and the delayed filing of our periodic reports with the SEC, we were unable to comply with the listing standards of The NASDAQ National Market and were delisted from NASDAQ in January 2006. Following the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, we may be required to file now delinquent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2005 and the first and second quarters of 2006. We likely will not apply to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange until at the earliest the first quarter of 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange. If we are not successful in listing our common stock on a national securities exchange, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We face challenges in hiring and retaining qualified personnel due to the restatement, the related SEC and internal investigations and delisting from NASDAQ. We depend on our employees and on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Given the lengthy restatement process, the related SEC and internal investigations and the delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ, it has become more difficult to retain key personnel, including members of our finance team. In addition, we began to experience a higher attrition rate in the fourth quarter of 2005, which continued through the first six months of 2006. Our inability to hire qualified personnel and retain existing key personnel has disrupted, and may continue to disrupt, our ability to effectively manage our business and to complete our outstanding periodic reports. In addition, the loss of the services of any of our key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and sales personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively affect our ability to sell, our products. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Business We are experiencing slower growth in revenues and new orders which could cause our stock price to decline. In the past, we have been able to report significant growth in revenues and new orders. However, our revenues and orders grew at a slower rate in 2005. Our total revenues grew 23% from the year ended December 31, 2004 to 2005 and 36% from the year ended December 31, 2003 to 2004. Accordingly, investors should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. In addition, growth of our revenues from sales of our products in certain regions, such as EMEA and APAC, has slowed and we anticipate such slower growth to continue. International revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased 23%, compared to a 40% increase in the year ended December 31, 2004. If we are unable to accelerate growth of our revenues and orders, or to accelerate our growth in certain regions, our stock price could decline. We expect our quarterly revenue and results of operations to fluctuate, and it is difficult to predict our future revenue and results of operations. Our revenue and results of operations have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products and services; • fluctuations in the number of large orders in a quarter, including changes in the length of term and subscription licenses; • changes in the mix of perpetual, term, or subscription licenses, or other products or services sold in a quarter; • the mix of our domestic and international sales, together with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • our success in developing and introducing new products and services, the timing of new product and service introductions, and order realization; • our ability to keep a sales force organization with an adequate number of sales and services personnel; • our ability to introduce enhancements to our existing products and services in a timely manner; • changes in economic conditions affecting our customers or our industry; • uncertainties related to the integration of products, services, employees, and operations of acquired companies; • the introduction of new or enhanced products and services by our competitors and changes in the pricing policies of these competitors; • the discretionary nature of our customers’ purchase and budget cycles and changes in their budgets for software and related purchases; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business; • deferrals by our customers of orders in anticipation of new products or services or product enhancements; and • our continuing relationships with alliance partners. In addition, the timing of our software product revenues is difficult to predict and can vary substantially from product to product and customer to customer. We base our operating expenses on our expectations of future revenue levels. The timing of larger orders and customer buying patterns are difficult to forecast, and therefore we may not learn of shortfalls in revenue or earnings or other failures to meet market expectations until late in a particular quarter. 21 Table of Contents We have experienced seasonality in our orders and revenues which may result in seasonality in our earnings. The fourth quarter of the year typically has the highest orders and revenues for the year and higher orders and revenues than the first quarter of the following year. We believe that this seasonality results primarily from our customers’ budgeting cycles being typically higher in the third and fourth quarters, from our application management and application delivery businesses being typically strongest in the fourth fiscal quarter and weakest in the first fiscal quarter, and to a lesser extent, from the structure of our sales commission program. We expect this seasonality to continue in the future. Due to these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. If our results of operations are below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our increasing efforts to sell enterprise-wide software products and services could expose us to revenue variations and higher operating costs. We increasingly focus our efforts on sales of enterprise-wide solutions, which consist of our Mercury Optimization Centers offerings and related professional and managed services, in addition to the sale of component products. As a result, each sale requires substantial time and effort from our sales and support staff as well as involvement by our professional services and managed services organizations and our systems integrator partners. Large individual sales, or even small delays in customer orders, can cause significant variation in our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations for a particular period. An increasing portion of our revenues has been derived from large orders, generally with a value of greater than $1.0 million, as we focus our efforts on sales of enterprise-wide solutions. If we cannot generate a sufficient number of large customer orders or if customers delay or cancel such orders in a particular quarter, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. Moreover, a substantial portion of our orders, particularly our larger transactions, are typically received in the last month of each fiscal quarter, with a concentration of such orders in the final week of the quarter. We may not learn of revenue shortfalls as a result of any delay in the completion, or any cancellation, of a large order until very late in the quarter, and possibly on the final day or days of the quarter. Not only could any delays or cancellations of large orders adversely affect our revenues, any resulting shortfalls could adversely affect our results of operations because they may occur after it is too late to reduce expenses for that quarter. Accordingly, if our results of operations are below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our revenue targets are dependent on a projected mix of orders in a particular quarter and any failure to achieve revenue targets because of a shift in the mix of orders could adversely affect our quarterly revenue and results of operations. Our product revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the volume of perpetual license orders delivered during the current quarter, the amount of subscription revenue amortized from deferred revenue from prior quarters and, to a small degree, revenue recognized on subscription orders received during the current quarter. We set our revenue targets for any given period based, in part, upon an assumption that we will achieve a certain level of orders and a certain mix of perpetual licenses and subscription licenses. The mix of orders is subject to substantial fluctuation in any given quarter or multiple quarter periods and the actual mix of licenses sold affects the revenue we recognize in the period. If we achieve the target level of total orders, but are unable to achieve our target license mix, we may not meet our revenue targets (if we deliver more-than-expected subscription licenses) or we may exceed them (if we deliver more-than-expected perpetual licenses). If we achieve the target license mix, but the overall level of orders is below the target level, then we may not meet our revenue targets which may adversely affect our results of operations. Conversely, if our overall level of orders is below the target level but our license mix is above our targets (if we deliver more-than-expected perpetual licenses), our revenues may still meet or even exceed our revenue targets. Furthermore, if a perpetual license is sold within the same timeframe as a subscription based license to the same customer, then the two generally become bundled together and are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. This shift may cause us to experience a decrease in recognized revenue in a given period, as well as continued growth of deferred revenue. In addition, while subscription and term based licenses represent a potential source of renewable license revenue, there is also the risk that customers will not renew their licenses at the end of a term. 22 Table of Contents Our international sales and operations subject us to risks that could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. International sales have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our revenue and we anticipate that such sales will continue to be a significant percentage of our revenue. As a percentage of our total revenues, international revenues were 40% for both of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. We face risks associated with our international operations, including: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • the need to localize products for sale in international markets; • longer payment cycles to collect accounts receivable in some countries; • seasonal reductions in business activity in other parts of the world in which we operate; • geographical turmoil, including terrorism and wars; • country or regional political and economic instability; • economic downturns in international markets; and • the possibility of restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital from foreign countries. Any of these risks could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales. For example, some countries in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa already have laws and regulations related to technologies used on the Internet that are more strict than those currently in force in the U.S. Any or all of these factors could cause our business and results of operations to be harmed. In addition, as part of our efforts to improve our results of operations in Europe, we are in the process of rebuilding our sales organization in Europe. We may not be able to successfully integrate our new personnel into our business, and we cannot provide any assurance that our efforts to improve our results of operations in Europe will be successful. If we fail to maintain our existing distribution channels and develop additional channels in the future, our revenue could decline. We derive a portion of our business from sales of our products and services through distribution channels, such as global software vendors, systems integrators, or value-added resellers. We generally expect that sales of our products through these channels will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. We may not experience increased revenue from new channels and may see a decrease from our existing channels, which could harm our business. The loss of one or more of our systems integrators or value-added resellers, or any reduction or delay in their sales of our products and services could result in reductions in our revenue in future periods. In addition, our ability to increase our revenue in the future depends on our ability to expand our indirect distribution channels. Our dependence on indirect distribution channels presents a number of risks, including: • each of our global software vendors, systems integrators, or value-added resellers can cease marketing our products and services with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty; • our existing global software vendors, systems integrators, or value-added resellers may not be able to effectively sell any new products and services that we may introduce; • we may not be able to replace existing or recruit additional global software vendors, systems integrators, or value-added resellers, if we lose any of our existing ones; 23 Table of Contents • our global software vendors, systems integrators, or value-added resellers may also offer competitive products and services; • we may face conflicts between the activities of our indirect channels and our direct sales and marketing activities; and • our global software vendors, systems integrators, or value-added resellers may not give priority to the marketing of our products and services as compared to our competitors’ products. The continued growth of our business may be adversely affected if we fail to form and maintain strategic relationships and business alliances. Our development, marketing, and distribution strategies rely increasingly on our ability to form strategic relationships with software and other technology companies. These business relationships often consist of cooperative marketing programs, joint customer seminars, lead referrals, and cooperation in product development. Many of these relationships are not contractual and depend on the continued voluntary cooperation of each party with us. Divergence in strategy or change in focus by, or competitive product offerings by, any of these companies may interfere with our ability to develop, market, sell, or support our products, which in turn could harm our business. Further, if these companies enter into strategic alliances with other companies or are acquired, they could reduce their support of our products. Our existing relationships may be jeopardized if we enter into alliances with competitors of our strategic partners. In addition, one or more of these companies may use the information they gain from their relationship with us to develop or market competing products. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, requires an effective planning and management system and process. We will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. As a result, we have licensed software from SAP AG and have begun a process to expand and upgrade our operational and financial systems. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, our new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain, achieve accuracy in the conversion of electronic data and record, and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, as we add functionality, new problems that we have not foreseen could arise. Such problems could adversely affect our ability to do the following in a timely manner: provide quotes; process customer orders; ship products; provide services and support to our customers; bill and track our customers; fulfill contractual obligations; and otherwise run our business. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in the diversion of management’s attention and resources and affect our ability to manage our business. Accordingly, our results of operations, cash flows, and stock price could be negatively affected. If we are unable to manage rapid changes, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have, in the past, experienced significant growth in employees and the number of our product and service offerings and we believe this growth may continue. This growth has placed a significant strain on our management and our financial, operational, marketing, and sales systems. We are implementing and plan to implement in the future a variety of new or expanded business and financial systems, procedures, and controls, including the improvement of our sales and customer support systems. The implementation of these systems, procedures, and controls may not be completed successfully, or may disrupt our operations or our data may not be transitioned properly. Any failure by us to properly manage these transitions could impair our ability to attract and service customers and could cause us to incur higher operating costs and experience delays in the execution of our business plan. We have also in the past experienced reductions in revenue that required us to rapidly reduce costs. If we fail to reduce staffing levels when necessary, our costs would be excessive and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and other key personnel, many of whom are new to Mercury or their positions with Mercury. We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could hurt our business. The loss of senior personnel can result in significant disruption to our ongoing operations, and new senior personnel must spend a significant amount of time learning our business and our systems in addition to performing their regular duties. Additionally, our inability to attract new senior executives and key personnel could significantly affect our business results. Many of the individuals that comprise our senior management team are new to Mercury or to their positions with Mercury. On November 2, 2005, we announced that Amnon Landan (our former chief executive officer and chairman of our Board of Directors), Douglas Smith (our former executive vice president and chief financial officer), and Susan Skaer (our former vice president and general counsel) had each resigned from the Company. On that same date, we also announced that our Board of Directors had named Anthony Zingale as chief executive officer, David Murphy as chief financial officer and Giora Yaron as chairman of our Board of Directors, all of whom were existing officers or directors of Mercury, but who took on additional roles and responsibilities within Mercury as a result of such appointments. In addition, during the past year, we have hired a number of new members of our senior management team, including in our finance and legal departments, and added two additional independent members to our Board of Directors. If we are unable to successfully integrate the new members of our senior management team, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our research and development operations are primarily located in Israel, we may be affected by volatile political, economic, and military conditions in that country and by restrictions imposed by that country on the transfer of technology. Our research and development operations are primarily located in Israel, and these operations depend on the availability of highly skilled scientific and technical personnel in Israel. Our business also depends on trading relationships between Israel and other countries. In addition to the risks associated with international sales and operations generally, our operations could be adversely affected if major hostilities involving Israel should occur or if trade between Israel and its current trading partners were interrupted or curtailed. These risks are compounded due to the restrictions on our ability to manufacture or transfer outside of Israel any technology arising from research and development grants from the government of Israel without the prior written consent of the government of Israel. If we are unable to obtain the consent of the government of Israel, we may not be able to take advantage of strategic manufacturing and other opportunities outside of Israel. Even if we were able to obtain the consent of the government of Israel, there may be significant costs associated with transferring such technology or manufacturing outside of Israel. We may be unable to repatriate funds from our non-U.S. subsidiaries without incurring significant taxation. During December 2005, we repatriated $500.0 million from our Israeli subsidiary under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This was a one-time repatriation, and we do not expect to repatriate any additional funds in 2006. The repatriation is subject to taxes of approximately $117.5 million for Israeli taxes, approximately $20.6 million for U.S. federal taxes, (which is a one-time tax incentive) and approximately $3.2 million for state taxes in accordance with tax laws existing at the time. We are currently under negotiations with the Israeli government in an attempt to obtain approval to reduce a portion of the Israeli taxes. However, the likelihood that we will be successful in obtaining such approval remains uncertain. We are subject to the risk of increased income taxes if income tax rate incentives in Israel are altered or if there are other changes in tax laws or rulings. Historically, our operations have generated a significant amount of income in Israel where income tax rate incentives have been extended to encourage foreign investments. Our income taxes could increase if these income tax rate incentives are not renewed upon expiration or income tax rates applicable to us are increased. Tax authorities could challenge the manner in which profits are allocated between our subsidiaries and us, and we may not prevail in any such challenge. If the profits recognized by our 25 Table of Contents subsidiaries in jurisdictions where income taxes are lower became subject to income taxes in other jurisdictions, our worldwide effective income tax rate would increase. In addition, to the extent we are unable to continue to reinvest a substantial portion of our profits in our Israeli operations, we may be subject to additional income tax rate increases in the future. Other factors that could increase our effective income tax rate include the effect of changing economic conditions, business opportunities, and changes in income tax laws and rulings. Merger and acquisition activities, if any, could result in nondeductible expenses, which may increase our effective income tax rate. In addition, we are currently evaluating the migration of the economic ownership of technology acquired from Performant and Kintana to a foreign subsidiary. The migration may lead to an increase in our effective income tax rate. In the event we do not migrate the technology, our effective income tax rate may also increase due to a greater portion of U.S. source income associated with the technology acquired from Performant and Kintana. Acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, or divert the attention of our management and may result in financial results that are different than expected. In the second quarter of 2006, we completed the acquisition of service desk and ITIL-based technology and research and development resources from Vertical Solutions, Inc. (VSI) and Tefensoft Inc., and in the first quarter of 2006, we acquired Systinet Corporation. In 2005, we acquired a wireless testing business unit owned by Intuwave, and acquired BeatBox Technologies (BeatBox), formerly known as ClickCadence, LLC. BeatBox specialized in helping companies to optimize the efficiency and effectiveness of their online presence. In July 2004, August 2003, May 2003 and May 2001, we acquired Appilog, Kintana, Performant and Freshwater, respectively, and frequently consider additional possible acquisitions. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could: • pay with cash, which would reduce our available cash; • issue stock that would dilute the ownership of our then-existing stockholders; • incur debt; • assume liabilities; • incur expenses for the impairment of the value of acquired assets; or • incur amortization expense related to intangible assets. If we fail to achieve the financial and strategic benefits of past and future acquisitions, our results of operations will be negatively affected. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: • difficulties in integrating or coordinating the different research and development, sales programs, facilities, operations, technologies, or products; • failure to achieve targeted synergies; • unanticipated costs and liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers or those of the acquired organization; • difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. In addition, for acquisitions completed to date, the development of acquired technologies remains a significant risk due to the remaining efforts to achieve technical feasibility, changing customer markets, and uncertainty of new product standards. Efforts to develop these acquired technologies into commercially viable 26 Table of Contents products consist of planning, designing, experimenting, and testing activities necessary to determine that the technologies can meet market expectations, including functionality and technical requirements. Failure to bring these products to market in a timely manner could result in a loss of market share or a lost opportunity to capitalize on emerging markets, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from the investment community’s expectations. Further, if market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, and stock price could be negatively affected. Investments may become impaired and require us to reduce earnings. At December 31, 2005, our equity investments in non-consolidated companies consisted of investments in privately-held companies of $4.1 million, a private equity fund of $8.4 million, and a warrant to purchase common stock of Motive of less than $0.1 million. At December 31, 2005, our total capital contributions to the private equity fund were $10.9 million, and we have committed to make additional capital contributions of up to $4.1 million to the private equity fund at its request. We may be required to incur expense for the impairment of value of our investments. In determining whether investments in non-consolidated companies are impaired, we consider the latest valuation of each of the companies based on recent sales of equity securities to unrelated third party investors and whether the companies have sufficient funds and financing to continue as a going concern for at least twelve months. We closely monitor the financial health of the private companies in which we hold minority equity investments. We may continue to make investments in other companies. We cannot make any assurances that our investments will be successful and we may lose all or part of the value of any investment we make. If we determine in accordance with our standard accounting policies that impairment has occurred, then additional losses would be recorded, which would have a negative effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The Motive warrant is recorded at its fair value on each reporting date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Estimating the fair value of the warrant requires management judgment and may have an impact on our financial position and results of operations. The Motive warrant is treated as a derivative instrument due to a net settlement provision and is recorded at its fair value in each reporting period. Since the Motive warrant is marked to market at each reporting date, fluctuations in the fair value of the warrant will have an effect on our financial position and results of operations. The fair value of the warrant was less than $0.1 million as of December 31, 2005. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property, we may lose a valuable asset, experience reduced revenue, and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secrets, and contractual restrictions (including confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements) to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and services and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfers, and disclosures of our licensed programs may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. To the extent we increase our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information will increase. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. In many cases, we enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees and consultants and with the customers and corporations with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No 27 Table of Contents assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of our management resources, which could result in lower revenue, higher operating costs, and adversely affect our results of operations. Third parties could assert that our products and services infringe their intellectual property rights, which could expose us to litigation that, with or without merit, could be costly to defend. We may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against these claims. Parties making these claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to sell our products in the U.S. and abroad and could result in an award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a claim of infringement, we may be required to obtain licenses from third parties, develop alternative technology, or alter our products or processes or cease activities that infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. If we are required to obtain licenses, we cannot be sure that we will be able to do so at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain required licenses could delay shipment of our products and increase our costs. In addition, any such lawsuit could result in our incurring significant costs or the diversion of the attention of our management. If we fail to obtain or maintain early access to third-party software, our future product development may suffer. Software developers have in the past provided us with early access to pre-generally available versions of their software in order to have input into the functionality and to ensure that we can adapt our software to exploit new functionality in these systems. Some companies, however, may adopt more restrictive policies in the future or impose unfavorable terms and conditions for such access. These restrictions may result in higher research and development costs for us in connection with the enhancement and modification of our existing products and the development of new products or may prevent us from being able to develop products which will work with such new systems, which could harm our business. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware Law could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, including an acquisition that would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. Our Agreement and Plan of Merger with HP prohibits us from issuing shares of preferred stock, so long as such agreement is in effect. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date that the person became an interested stockholder unless, subject to certain exceptions, the business combination or the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder is approved in a prescribed manner. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law is not applicable to HP’s proposed acquisition of us. Leverage and debt service obligations for $800.0 million in outstanding Notes may adversely affect our cash flow and financial position. On April 29, 2003, we issued our 2003 Notes, with a principal amount of $500.0 million, in a private placement, and in July 2000, we completed the offering of the 2000 Notes with a principal 28 Table of Contents amount of $500.0 million. From December 2001 through December 2002, we repurchased $200.0 million face value of our 2000 Notes. We continue to carry a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness, primarily the remaining 2000 Notes and the 2003 Notes. As a result of our failure to file our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2005, we violated provisions of the indentures related to our 2000 Notes and our 2003 Notes (together, the “Notes”) that require us to furnish such information promptly to the Notes trustee and received a notice of default on the Notes in August 2005. In October 2005, we solicited consents from the holders of the Notes. On October 26, 2005, we announced that holders of a majority of each series of the Notes had submitted consents which waived until March 31, 2006 any default or event of default under the indentures arising from our failure to timely file with the SEC and provide to the trustee of the Notes, those reports required to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Report Defaults). In consideration for the waiver, we (i) paid to the consenting holders of 2000 Notes a consent fee of $25.00 for each $1,000 principal amount of 2000 Notes, resulting in a $7.1 million payment that will be amortized to interest expense over the remaining term of the 2000 notes and (ii) entered into a supplement to the Indenture governing the 2003 Notes pursuant to which we will be required to repurchase the 2003 Notes, at the option of the holder, on November 30, 2006 at a repurchase price equal to 107.25% of the principal amount. If the put option is exercised by all holders, we will be required to pay the face value and an additional $36.3 million to the 2003 Note holders on that date. Because we failed to file our reports by March 31, 2006, as required by the waivers we obtained in October 2005, the trustee or the holders of 25% of each series of the Notes had the right as of April 1, 2006 to declare the principal and interest on the applicable series of Notes immediately due and payable. On April 21, 2006, we solicited additional consents from the holders of the Notes requesting a waiver until the stated maturity of the 2000 Notes and the 2003 Notes, as applicable, of any Report Defaults. On May 4, 2006, we announced that, as of May 3, 2006, holders of a majority of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of each series of the Notes had submitted consents and therefore the Report Defaults were waived for all holders. In consideration for the waiver, we (i) entered into a supplement to the Indenture governing the 2000 Notes requiring us to repurchase the 2000 Notes, at the option of the holder, on March 1, 2007 at a repurchase price equal to 101.3% of the principal amount of the 2000 Notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and providing that any 2000 Notes redeemed pursuant to Article XI of the Indenture during the period from July 1, 2006 through March 5, 2007 shall be at a redemption price of 101.3% of the principal amount of the 2000 Notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and (ii) entered into a supplement to the Indenture governing the 2003 Notes requiring us to repurchase the 2003 Notes, at the option of the holder, on October 31, 2006 (in addition to the existing optional put date of November 30, 2006), at a repurchase price equal to 107.25% of the principal amount of the 2003 Notes. If the put options are exercised by all holders of both series of Notes, we will be required to pay the face value of the Notes and an additional $36.3 million to the holders of the 2003 Notes on October 31, 2006 or November 30, 2006 and $3.9 million to the holders of the 2000 Notes on March 1, 2007. On October 2, 2006, we announced an offer to repurchase the 2003 Notes, pursuant to the contractual obligations described above, which we undertook in connection with waivers obtained from holders of the 2003 Notes in May 2006. Each holder of 2003 Notes has the right to require us to purchase all or any part of such holder’s 2003 Notes at a price equal to $1,072.50 per $1,000 of principal amount. If all outstanding 2003 Notes are surrendered for purchase, the aggregate cash purchase price will be approximately $536.3 million. The repurchase offer will terminate on October 31, 2006. There is a possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay the principal, interest and other amounts in respect of our indebtedness when due. Our leverage could have significant negative consequences, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete. 29 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors and possible lawsuits. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the 52-week period ended December 31, 2005, the closing sale prices of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ National Market ranged from a high of $48.94 to a low of $25.66. Our common stock has been trading on the Pink Sheets since January 4, 2006. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • any announcements that our proposed merger with HP may not take place, or may be delayed; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations and/or quarterly guidance; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements related to strategic relationships, acquisitions or investments by us or our competitors; • announcements related to the results of the ongoing SEC investigation, Special Committee investigation, or class action or derivative lawsuits; • the filing of our outstanding periodic reports with the SEC; • the trading of our common stock on the Pink Sheets and our ability to relist our common stock on a national securities exchange; • changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts; • changes in general economic conditions; • consolidation in the software industry; • terrorist attacks, and the effects of war; • conditions or trends affecting the software industry and the Internet; • changes in the rating of our notes or other securities; and • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other software and high-technology companies. Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and the trading prices of our securities could decline as a result. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many high-technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of software or internet software companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Because the 2000 Notes and 2003 Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices for our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of these Notes. Holders who receive common stock upon conversion also will be subject to the risk of volatility and depressed prices of our common stock. Risk Associated with our Industry and Market Conditions Our future success may be impaired and our results of operations could suffer if we cannot respond to rapid market and technological changes by introducing new products and services and continually improving the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services and responding to competitive offerings. The market for our software products and services is characterized by: • rapidly changing technology; • consolidation of the software industry; • frequent introduction of new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services by our competitors; 30 Table of Contents • increasing complexity and interdependence of our applications; • changes in industry standards and practices; • ability to attract and retain key personnel; and • changes in customer requirements and demands. To maintain our competitive position, we must continue to enhance our existing products, including our software products and services for our application management and application delivery, and IT governance solutions. We must also continue to develop new products and services, functionality, and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our customers and prospective customers. The development of new products and services, and enhancement of existing products and services, entail significant technical and business risks and require substantial lead-time and significant investments in product development. In addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal. If we fail to anticipate new technology developments, customer requirements or industry standards, or if we are unable to develop new products and services that adequately address these new developments, requirements, and standards in a timely manner, our products and services may become obsolete, our ability to compete may be impaired, our revenue could decline, and our results of operations could suffer. Our financial results may be positively or negatively affected by foreign currency fluctuations. A substantial portion of our research and development activities are performed in Israel. In addition, our foreign operations are generally transacted through our international sales subsidiaries and offices in the Americas; Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); Asia Pacific (APAC); and Japan. Sales and related expenses for our subsidiaries and offices outside the United States are typically denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, our results of operations may be positively or adversely affected by fluctuations in the rates of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, including: • a decrease in the value of currencies in certain countries of the Americas, EMEA, APAC, or Japan relative to the U.S. dollar, which would decrease our sales and marketing costs in these countries and would decrease research and development costs in Israel; • a decrease in the value of currencies in certain countries of the Americas, EMEA, APAC, or Japan relative to the U.S. dollar, which would decrease our reported U.S. dollar revenue and deferred revenue, as we generate sales in these local currencies and report the related revenue and deferred revenue in U.S. dollars; • an increase in the value of currencies in certain countries of the Americas, EMEA, APAC, or Japan relative to the U.S. dollar, which would increase our sales and marketing costs in these countries and would increase research and development costs in Israel; and • an increase in the value of currencies in certain countries of the Americas, EMEA, APAC, or Japan relative to the U.S. dollar, which would increase our reported U.S. dollar revenue, as we generate revenue and deferred revenue in these local currencies and report the related revenue in U.S. dollars. Recent changes in accounting principles, including the expensing of stock options granted to our employees, could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. The U.S. generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results. We currently record any compensation expense associated with stock option grants to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25. On December 15, 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which will require us to measure compensation expense for employee stock options using the fair value method 31 Table of Contents beginning the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. SFAS No. 123(R) applies to all outstanding stock options that are not vested at the effective date and grants of new stock options made subsequent to the effective date. Due to the resources required to complete our restatement and become current with our SEC filings, we have not yet implemented SFAS No. 123R and are unable to estimate the effect this adoption will have on our results of operations. However, we expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123R to have a significant effect on our results of operations. In addition, our implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) may cause a delay of the filing of our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2006. We expect to face increasing competition in the future, which could cause reduced sales levels and result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, or loss of market share. The market for our business technology optimization products and services is extremely competitive, dynamic, and subject to frequent technological change. There are few substantial barriers to entry in our market. The Internet has further reduced these barriers to entry, allowing other companies to compete with us in our markets. As a result of the increased competition, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to identify and respond to the needs of current and potential customers, and to new technological and market opportunities, before our competitors identify and respond to these needs and opportunities. We may fail to respond quickly enough to these needs and opportunities. In the market for application delivery solutions, our principal competitors include Compuware, Empirix, IBM Software Group, Parasoft, Worksoft, and Segue Software. In the new and rapidly changing market for application management solutions, our principal competitors include BMC Software, Computer Associates (including its Wily Technology division), Compuware, HP OpenView (a division of Hewlett-Packard), Keynote Systems, Segue Software and Tivoli (a division of IBM). In the market for IT governance solutions, our principal competitors include enterprise application vendors such as Compuware (with its acquisition of Changepoint), Lawson, Oracle, and SAP AG, as well as point tool vendors such as Computer Associates (with its acquisition of Niku) and Primavera. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting our market are: • price and cost effectiveness; • product functionality; • product performance, including scalability and reliability; • quality of support and service; • company reputation; • depth and breadth of BTO offerings; • research and development leadership; • financial stability; and • global capabilities. Although we believe that our products and services currently compete favorably with respect to these factors, the markets for application management, application delivery, and IT governance are rapidly evolving. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position, which could lead to a decrease in our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. The software industry is increasingly experiencing consolidation and this could increase the resources available to our competitors and the scope of their product offerings. For example, our former IT governance competitor, PeopleSoft, was acquired by Oracle, which has substantially greater financial and other resources than we have. Our competitors and potential competitors may develop more advanced technology, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, or make more attractive offers to distribution partners and to employees. We anticipate the market for our software and services to become increasingly more competitive over time. 32 Table of Contents Economic, political, and market conditions may adversely affect demand for our products and services. Our customers’ decisions to purchase our products and services are discretionary and subject to their internal budgets and purchasing processes. We believe that although the economy and business conditions appear to be improving, customers may continue to reassess their immediate technology needs, lengthen their purchasing decision-making processes, require more senior level internal approvals of purchases, and defer purchasing decisions, and accordingly, could reduce demand in the future for our products and services. In addition, the war on terrorism and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world have caused political uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets. Under these circumstances, there is a risk that our existing and potential customers may decrease spending for our products and services. If demand for our products and services is reduced, our revenue growth rates and results of operations will be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 