Risk Factors” in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Because actual results may differ, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. OVERVIEW In 1997, we launched one of the first software product suites on the market that was fully developed and created expressly for Web-based content and document management. At the time, content management — today considered a critical component of an organization’s communication and information technology (IT) infrastructure — was an emerging technology used to help companies easily and quickly share information with employees, partners, customers and prospects using the World Wide Web. Currently, our solutions — which are comprised of Universal Content Managementtm software and Content Components software — help customers worldwide solve business problems related to efficiently creating, managing, sharing and archiving critical information. MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS As of March 31, 2005, we had approximately 3,337 corporate customers for our Universal Content Management products, approximately 471 OEM customers and approximately 613 corporate customers for our desktop viewing and conversion technology. No single customer accounted for ten percent or more of our total revenues in fiscal year 2005. Customers use our products as follows: • Universal Content Management: Organizations deploy Stellent® Universal Content Management software to build enterprise-wide content management deployments and line-of-business solutions, such as public Web sites; intranets for internal-only company information; extranets, which are Web sites available only to select audiences, such as partners and customers; multi-site management, which is the development and management of all of the above types of Web sites; and financial compliance initiatives, such as Sarbanes-Oxley. • Content Components: Other technology companies embed this technology into their own products to enable their users to view business information on, and to convert business information to formats 1 Table of Contents viewable on handheld devices or in a Web browser. These technologies are also integrated into our Universal Content Management software. PRODUCTS Our product set is comprised of two main categories: Universal Content Management software and Content Components software. Universal Content Management Software Universal Content Management is Stellent’s primary software product, consisting of a unified architecture and product which power multiple applications. These applications help organizations manage their business information — such as records, legal documents such as contracts, business documents, presentations, Web content and graphics — from the time it’s created to the time it’s archived or disposed of, so that employees, customers, partners and investors can more easily find, access and re-use that information. With Stellent software, customers can increase employee productivity, reduce expenses and improve company-wide collaboration and communication. Our Universal Content Management software addresses the key elements of content management — document management and imaging, Web content management, digital asset management, collaboration and records management — from a unified architecture, enabling customers to fully utilize their content management investment across the organization. We believe our tightly integrated products allow companies to implement content management applications using fewer products and consulting services than other content management offerings, which can lead to a lower total cost of ownership. The Stellent system is also easy to use. Users can submit, or contribute, business content — such as a word processing document, spreadsheet or CAD file — to the Stellent system, and the Stellent technology automatically converts the file to a format that can be viewed on a Web site. This automatic conversion capability enables even non-technical users to easily publish information to a site, such as an employee portal or partner extranet, so the information can be shared with other users. Our Universal Content Management software is comprised primarily of Stellent Content Server and five key application modules, and is targeted toward four primary usage scenarios, all of which are described below. Stellent Content Server Stellent Content Server is a fully functional system providing secure, personalized delivery of business information. This repository provides a core set of content services — such as check-in/check-out, revision control, security, workflow, personalization and subscription — that help ensure users can access only the most current information as appropriate to their role or permissions. Content Server also provides a variety of repository services, including file storage, metadata and search. Application Modules On top of Stellent Content Server, users can add the following five key content management application modules: • Web Content Management: Enables organizations to create web content, and manage and publish Web sites. • Document Management and Imaging: Provides Web-based management, collaboration and access to business information created in common office software applications or created as paper documents which are then converted into electronic images. • Digital Asset Management: Enables digital assets — such as photos, graphics, audio clips and video clips — to be searched, accessed, viewed, managed, distributed and re-purposed via the Web. 2 Table of Contents • Records Management: Provides a Web-based method for managing business records and creating rules — such as expiration, archiving and deletion — regarding the disposition of that content. • Collaboration Management: Enables the creation of a project or team space for sharing documents, schedules and discussions among a team via the Web. Primary Usage Scenarios • Enterprise Content Management: Enterprise content management (ECM) is an infrastructure for all content-based applications within an enterprise, allowing organizations to strategically select, deploy and maintain an effective, efficient knowledge platform within their organizations. Often times, the ability to provide an ECM infrastructure is a requirement in line-of-business transactions as companies look ahead to other upcoming content management needs. • Compliance Management: The need to comply with government mandates for financial records retention and compliance monitoring — such as Sarbanes-Oxley — has emerged as a driving factor in both business and technology decisions. Compliance solutions powered by content management technologies — whether as a compliance platform for all regulations mandated for an organization, or as line-of-business compliance applications for individual regulatory efforts — assist organizations in their compliance processes by automating the capture, retention, management and disposition of electronic files and physical documents maintained for compliance purposes. • Multi-Site Management: Multi-site management refers to a content management infrastructure for creating and managing multiple, distributed Web properties such as public Web sites, intranets, extranets and portals. Stellent’s second-generation, multi-site management solution offers a rapidly deployable product, allowing companies to easily launch and maintain multiple internal or external sites while preserving appropriate corporate branding. • Customer Applications: In addition to the three usage scenarios outlined above, Stellent customers use our content management technology to power a variety of other high-value applications, including public-facing Web sites, corporate intranets, dealer and partner extranets, human resource portals, customer service Web sites, marketing brand management, and accounts payable imaging. Content Components Software Stellent’s Content Components software makes information created in more than 370 common office software applications more accessible to the business users who need it. Other technology companies embed this software to enable their own solutions to extract text and metadata, provide a high-fidelity view of file contents, and convert files into any one of 10 output formats. Since business information is often difficult to access without the native software application in which it was created, Stellent’s Content Components software empowers users to locate and view information without needing the software application that created the file installed on their desktop or handheld device. These technologies are also integrated into Stellent’s Universal Content Management software. The Content Components software supports multiple operating systems and international environments, and enables access to documents in applications for diverse markets such as content management, search and retrieval, security and policy management, mobile and wireless, messaging, collaboration and publishing. SUPPLIERS We have no sole source or limited source suppliers that we materially depend upon for our products described above. CONTRACTS The types of license contracts we enter into with our customers are typically perpetual arrangements for our direct customers and term-based arrangements for our OEM customers. Virtually all of our customers 3 Table of Contents initially purchase maintenance contracts, which entitle them to unspecified upgrades and product support. The primary reward or benefits to us of a perpetual licensing arrangement is the annual renewal of post-contract support. The primary benefit of a term-based license is the ability to predict future license revenue streams from that customer. The primary risk associated with the perpetual licensing arrangement is the non-renewal of post-contract support. The primary risk of a term-based license arrangement is the potential non-renewal of that arrangement. Many of our direct customers enter into services arrangements, which may include needs assessment, software integration, security analysis, application development and training. Application development generally is not critical to the functionality of the delivered software. CONSULTING SERVICES Our consulting services group is focused on delivering value-based content management solutions to our customers. Our consulting services professionals employ a combination of business analysis, enterprise architecture, application analysis, installation, configuration, development and integration skills with experience-based project methodology and management knowledge to facilitate the rollout of content management solutions at all levels of a customer’s organization. Available on a worldwide basis, we act as a business partner to our customers by providing a broad spectrum of services including: • Technical architecture analysis and needs assessment, such as software, security and metadata analysis • Solutions development and deployment strategies • Software installation and configuration • Custom application development • Third party product integration • Project management • Knowledge transfer These services can be offered in conjunction with our software products to new customers, or on a stand alone basis to our existing customers to assist them in driving additional content management solutions across their enterprises. These services are offered for fees, the amount of which depends on the nature and scope of the project. PRODUCT SUPPORT We offer several product support programs that allow customers to select the offering(s) that best satisfies their maintenance and support requirements. From the initial installation and configuration by us to the point of application deployment, our product support resources offer customer service through quick response time, trouble-shooting and the delivery of complete and comprehensive technical solutions. Customers may access product support resources on a worldwide basis for assistance during the customer’s normal business hours. Additional support offerings are available which supplement the customer’s product support requirements. Product support offerings are renewable on an annual basis and are typically priced as a percentage of the product license fees or percentage of product list price. PRODUCT TRAINING We provide a full range of educational courses on our Universal Content Management software. The comprehensive web-based modules and instructor-led classes enable business end-users, administrators, site designers, and developers to use our software more productively. Standard classes are scheduled at our designated worldwide training facilities, and both standard and customized classes are frequently taught at customer sites. 4 Table of Contents SALES AND MARKETING We market and sell our products using a combination of direct and indirect distribution channels primarily in North America and Europe. Our primary distribution channel is our direct sales force, which targets mid- and large-size organizations. Our sales personnel work with target accounts to address unsolved business needs which can be remedied by the application of a business process built around our Stellent Universal Content Management software. The analysis process will typically include a business process and technical systems evaluation performed by our pre-sales personnel, followed by demonstrations of our products’ capabilities and direct negotiations with our sales staff. In addition, we have used internal and external telemarketing operations that are responsible for customer prospecting, lead generation and follow-up. These activities identify and develop leads for further sales efforts by our direct sales force. As of March 31, 2005, we had a worldwide total of 117 direct and indirect sales and sales support personnel and 25 marketing personnel, which includes business development and alliances. We also use indirect sales channels to increase the distribution and visibility of our products through strategic alliances with resellers, OEMs, key systems integrators and other channel partners in both domestic and international markets. We currently have operations or collaborations in Australia, Brazil, Germany, Japan, Korea, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend in large part on how successfully we recruit, train and retain sufficient direct and indirect sales and support personnel, and how well we continue to establish and maintain relationships with our strategic partners, OEMs, key systems integrators and other channel partners. We use a variety of marketing programs to build market awareness of our brand name and of our products, as well as to attract potential customers to our products. A broad mix of programs is used to accomplish these goals, including market research, product and strategy updates with industry analysts, public relations activities, direct mail and relationship marketing programs, seminars, trade shows, speaking engagements, Web site marketing and joint marketing programs. Our marketing organization produces marketing materials in support of sales to prospective customers that include brochures, data sheets, white papers, presentations and demonstrations. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We have made substantial investments in research and development through both internal development and technology acquisitions. Our research and development expenditures for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005, were approximately $15.8 million, $13.3 million and $18.0 million, respectively. Research and development expenses represented 24%, 18%, and 17%, respectively, of total revenue in those years. We expect that we will continue to commit significant resources to research and development in the future. As of March 31, 2005, we had 136 employees engaged in research and development activities. In order to continue to provide product leadership in the content management and content components market, we intend to make major product releases approximately once per year. The success of new introductions is dependent on several factors, including timely completion and market introduction, differentiation of new products and enhancements from those of our competitors and market acceptance of new products and enhancements. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, evolving industry standards and rapidly changing customer requirements. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate changes, enhance our current products, develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological advancements and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We may not be successful in developing and marketing new products and enhancements that respond to competitive and technological developments and changing customer needs. 5 Table of Contents ACQUISITIONS In May 2004, we acquired all outstanding shares of Optika Inc. for $10.0 million in cash, approximately 4.2 million shares of Stellent common stock and the assumption by Stellent of Optika’s outstanding common stock options. We acquired Optika in order to add to or strengthen and expand our Universal Content Management software in the areas of document imaging, business process management and compliance capabilities. COMPETITION The market for content management and content component software is intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We believe that our competitive advantages include superior technology and lower overall cost of ownership than our competitors. However, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. Our primary source of competition, across the range of our product and service offerings, is from content management products offered by companies such as EMC Corporation, FileNET Corporation, IBM Corporation, Interwoven, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, and Vignette Corporation. We also compete with current or potential customers who may develop solutions internally. In the Content Components area our primary competition is Verity. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to apply such resources to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements to a greater extent than we can. In particular, we believe that EMC Corporation, FileNet Corporation, IBM Corporation and Microsoft Corporation all have larger market positions than we do. Also, many current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and access to larger customer bases than we have. Such competitors may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities and offer more attractive terms to purchasers than we can. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Competition in our market could materially and adversely affect our ability to obtain revenues from software license fees from new or existing customers on terms favorable to us. Further, competitive pressures may require us to reduce the price of our software. In either case, we cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSING We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, trademark, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. United States and international copyright laws provide limited protections for our software, documentation and other written materials. We license our products in object code format for limited use by customers. We treat the source code for our products as a trade secret and we require all employees and third-parties who need access to the source code to sign non-disclosure agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. However, the laws of many countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate or our competitors may independently develop similar technology. Our failure to 6 Table of Contents meaningfully protect our property could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe third parties may make claims of infringements with respect to our current or future product, but we cannot be sure that any such claims will arise. We expect that developers of content management and content component products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our market grows and as the functionality of products in different segments of the software industry increasingly overlaps. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed technology or develop or license technology with comparable functionality could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. EMPLOYEES As of March 31, 2005, we had 488 employees. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract, retain, integrate and motivate highly qualified sales, technical and management personnel, for whom competition is intense. From time to time we also employ independent contractors to support our services, product development, sales and marketing departments. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe our relations with our employees are good. GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION Financial information about geographic areas is incorporated by reference from Footnote 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Web site is: http://www.stellent.com. We make available, free of charge, through our Web site, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 