Item 1a: Risk Factors All amounts in this item are presented in thousands, except for per share amounts. Our controller products are sold to a relatively small number of OEM partners and the loss of any of these customers could substantially decrease our hardware revenues. A significant portion of our revenues are and have been generated by sales of our printer and copier related products to a relatively small number of OEMs. For example, Canon, Xerox and Konica Minolta each contributed over 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and together accounted for approximately 48% of those revenues during the same period. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, these same three customers each contributed over 10% of our revenues and together accounted for approximately 61% of our revenues for the year. Because sales of our printer and copier-related products constitute a significant portion of our revenues and there is a limited number of OEMs producing copiers and printers in sufficient volume to be attractive customers for us, we expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively small number of OEM customers for a significant portion of our contoller revenues in future periods. Accordingly, if we lose or experience reduced sales to an important OEM customer, we will have difficulty replacing the revenue previously generated from such customer with sales to new or existing OEM customers and our revenues will likely decline significantly. 11 Table of Contents The market for our super-wide-format printers is very competitive. The printing equipment industry is extremely competitive. Our VUTEk products compete against several companies that market digital printing systems based on electrostatic, drop-on-demand and continuous drop-on-demand inkjet, airbrush and other technologies and printers utilizing solvent and UV curable ink. Two of our largest competitors, Scitex Vision and Inca, were recently acquired by Hewlet Packard (“HP”) and Dainippon Screen (“Screen”), respectively. Both HP and Screen have greater resources to develop new products and technologies and market those products. They could also exert downward pressure on product pricing to gain market share. We have also witnessed the recent growth of local Chinese and Korean markets where local competitors are developing, manufacturing and selling inexpensive printers, mainly to the local Chinese and Korean markets. These Chinese and Korean manufacturers have also begun penetrating the international market and have partnered with other super-wide format printer manufacturers. Our ability to compete depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including the price, performance and acceptance of our current printers and any products we develop in the future. We also face competition from existing conventional wide format and super-wide format printing methods, including screen printing and offset printing. Our competitors could develop new products, with existing or new technology, that could be more competitive in our market than our printers. We cannot assure you that we can compete effectively with any such products. We face strong competition in the market for printing supplies such as ink. We compete with independent manufacturers in the ink market. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to remain the exclusive or even principal ink manufacturer for our printers. The loss of ink sales to our installed base of printers could adversely impact our revenues and gross margins. The solvent inks are relatively easy to clone, and additional manufacturers could increase pressure on us to reduce prices or divert customers away from us. We do not typically have long term purchase contracts with our OEM customers and our OEM customers have in the past and could at any time in the future, reduce or cease purchasing products from us, harming our operating results and business. With the exception of certain minimum purchase obligations, we typically do not have long-term volume purchase contracts with our OEM customers, including Canon, Xerox and Konica Minolta and they are not obligated to purchase products from us. Accordingly, our customers could at any time reduce their purchases from us or cease purchasing our products altogether. In the past, some of our OEM customers have elected to develop products on their own, rather than purchase our products and we expect that customers will continue to make such elections in the future. In addition, since our OEM customers incorporate our products into products they manufacture and sell, any decline in demand for copiers or laser printers and any other negative developments affecting our major customers or the computer industry in general, including reduced demand for the products sold by our OEM customers, would likely harm our results of operations. For example, several of our customers have in the past experienced serious financial difficulties which led to a decline in sales of our products to these customers. If any significant customers should face such difficulties in the future, our operating results could be harmed through, among other things, decreased sales volumes and write-offs of accounts receivables and inventory related to products we have manufactured for these customers’ products. In addition, a significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed in advance based on projected sales levels and margins, sales forecasts from our OEM customers and product development programs. A substantial portion of our backlog is scheduled for delivery within 90 days or less and our customers may cancel orders and change volume levels or delivery times for product they have ordered from us without penalty. Accordingly, if sales to our OEM customers are below expectations in any given quarter, the adverse impact of the shortfall in revenues on operating results may be increased by our inability to adjust spending in the short term to compensate for this shortfall. 12 Table of Contents We rely on our OEM customers to develop and sell products incorporating our controller technologies and if they fail to successfully develop and sell these products, or curtail or cease the use of our technologies in their products, our business will be harmed. We rely upon our OEM customers to develop new products, applications and product enhancements utilizing our controller technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our continued success in the server industry depends upon the ability of these OEM customers to utilize our technologies while meeting changing end-user customer needs and responding to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. However, we cannot assure you that our OEM customers will effectively meet these challenges. These OEM customers, who are not within our control, are generally not obligated to purchase products from us and we cannot assure you that they will continue to carry our products. For example, our OEM customers have incorporated into their products the technologies of other companies or internally developed technologies in addition to, or instead of, our technologies and will likely continue to do so in the future. If our OEM customers do not effectively and successfully market products containing our technologies, our revenue will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our OEM customers work closely with us to develop products that are specific to each OEM customer’s copiers and printers. Many of the products and technologies we are developing require that we coordinate development, quality testing, marketing and other tasks with our OEM customers. We cannot control our OEM customers’ development efforts or the timing of these efforts and coordinating with our OEM customers may cause delays in our own product development efforts that are outside of our control. If our OEM customers delay the release of their products, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected if we cannot meet our OEM customers’ product needs for their specific copiers and printers, as well as successfully manage the additional engineering and support effort and other risks associated with such a wide range of products. Ongoing economic uncertainty has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends significantly on the overall demand for information technology products such as ours that enable printing of digital data, which in turn depends on a variety of macro- and micro-economic conditions. Delays or reductions in information technology spending, which has occurred in the past, could cause a decline in demand for our products and services and consequently harm our business, operating results, financial condition, prospects and stock price. Our operating results may fluctuate based upon many factors, which could adversely affect our stock price. Stock prices of high technology companies such as ours tend to be volatile as a result of various factors, including variations in operating results and, consequently, fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect our stock price. Factors that have caused our operating results and share price to fluctuate in the past and that may cause future fluctuations include: • varying demand for our products, due to seasonality, OEM customer product development and marketing efforts, OEM customer financial and operational condition and general economic conditions; • shifts in customer demand to lower cost products; • success and timing of new product introductions by us and our OEM customers and the performance of our products generally; • success and timing of new VUTEk product introductions; • volatility in foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates and availability of bank or financing credit to consumers of digital copiers and printers; • price reductions by us and our competitors, which may be exacerbated by competitive pressures caused by economic conditions generally; 13 Table of Contents • substitution of third-party inks for our own ink products by users of our super-wide format inkjet printers; • delay, cancellation or rescheduling of orders or projects; • availability of key components and licenses, including possible delays in deliveries from suppliers, the performance of third-party manufacturers and the status of our relationships with our key suppliers; • potential excess or shortage of employees and location of research and development centers; • changes in our product mix such as shifts from higher revenue or gross margin products to lower revenue or gross margin products dependant on higher sales volumes, such as our VUTEk products; • costs associated with complying with any applicable governmental regulations, including substantial costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”); • acquisitions and integration of new businesses; • changes in our business model related to the migration of embedded products to a design-licensed model; • costs related to our entry into new markets, such as commercial printing and office equipment service automation; • general economic conditions; and • other risks described herein. We face competition from other suppliers as well as our own OEM customers and if we are not able to compete successfully our business may be harmed. The digital printing marketplace is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid technological changes. We compete against a number of other suppliers of imaging products and technologies, including our OEM customers themselves. Although we attempt to develop and support innovative products that end customers demand, products or technologies developed by competing suppliers, including our own OEM customers, could render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. While many of our OEM customers incorporate our technologies into their end products on an exclusive basis, we do not have any formal agreements that prevent these OEM customers from offering alternative products that do not incorporate our technologies. If, as has occurred in the past, an OEM customer offers products incorporating technology from alternative suppliers instead of, or in addition to products incorporating our technologies, our market share could decrease, which would likely reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, many OEMs in the printer and copier industry, including most of our OEM customers, internally develop and sell products that compete directly with our current products. These OEMs have significant investments in their existing solutions and have substantial resources that may enable them to develop or improve, more quickly than us, technologies similar to ours that are compatible with their own products. Our OEM customers have in the past marketed and likely will continue in the future to market, their own internal technologies and solutions in addition to ours, even when their technologies and solutions are less advanced, have lower performance or cost more than our products. Given the significant financial, marketing and other resources of our larger OEM customers and other significant OEMs in the imaging industry who are not our customers, we may not be able to successfully compete against these OEMs selling similar products that they develop internally. If we cannot compete successfully against the OEMs’ internally developed products, we will lose sales and market share in those areas where the OEMs choose to compete and our business will be harmed. 14 Table of Contents If we enter new markets or distribution channels this could result in higher operating expenses that may not be offset by increased revenue. We continue to explore opportunities to develop or acquire product lines different from our current controllers, such as proofing and print management software, document scanning solutions, super-wide format inkjet printers, prepress software solutions and web submission tools, among others. We expect to continue to invest funds to develop new distribution and marketing channels for these and additional new products and services, which will increase our operating expenses. We do not know if we will be successful in developing these channels or whether the market will accept any of our new products or services or if we will generate sufficient revenues from these activities to offset the additional operating expenses we incur. In addition, even if we are able to introduce new products or services, if customers do not accept these new products or services or if we are not able to price such products or services competitively, our operating results will likely suffer. We license software used in most of our products from Adobe Systems Incorporated and the loss of this license would prevent us from shipping these products. Most of our current products include software that we must license from Adobe. Specifically, we are required to obtain separate licenses from Adobe for the right to use Adobe PostScript® software in each type of copier or printer used with a Fiery Controller. Although to date we have successfully obtained licenses to use Adobe’s PostScript® software when required, Adobe is not required to and we cannot be certain that Adobe will, grant future licenses to Adobe PostScript® software on reasonable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, in order to obtain licenses from Adobe, Adobe requires that we obtain from it quality assurance approvals for our products that use Adobe software. Although to date we have successfully obtained such quality assurances from Adobe, we cannot be certain Adobe will grant us such approvals in the future. If Adobe does not grant us such licenses or approvals, if the Adobe licenses are terminated, or if our relationship with Adobe is otherwise materially impaired, we would likely be unable to sell products that incorporate Adobe PostScript® software and our financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed. We depend upon a limited group of suppliers for key components in our products and the loss of any of these suppliers could adversely affect our business. Certain components necessary for the manufacture of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. These include processors from Intel and other related semiconductor components and inkjet printheads for our super-wide format printers. We do not maintain long-term agreements with any of our component suppliers and conduct our business with such suppliers solely on a purchase order basis. If we are unable to continue to procure these sole-sourced components from our current suppliers, we will have to qualify other sources, if possible, or design our products so that they no longer require these components. We cannot assure you that other sources of these components exist or will be willing to supply us on reasonable terms or at all, or that we will be able to design around these components. Therefore any unavailability of supply of these components could harm our business. Because the purchase of certain key components involves long lead times, in the event of unanticipated volatility in demand for our products, we have been in the past and may in the future be unable to manufacture certain products in a quantity sufficient to meet demand. Further, as has occurred in the past, in the event that anticipated demand does not materialize, we may hold excess quantities of inventory that could become obsolete. In order to meet projected demand, we maintain an inventory of components for which we are dependent upon sole or limited source suppliers and components with prices that fluctuate significantly. As a result, we are subject to a risk of inventory obsolescence, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the market prices and availability of certain components, particularly memory and Intel-designed components, which collectively represent a substantial portion of the total manufactured cost of our products, have fluctuated significantly in the past. Such fluctuations in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition including a reduction in gross margins. 15 Table of Contents We are dependent on a limited number of subcontractors, with whom we do not have long-term contracts, to manufacture and deliver products to our customers and the loss of any of these subcontractors could adversely affect our business. We subcontract with other companies to manufacture our products and we do not have long-term agreements with these subcontractors. We rely on the ability of our subcontractors to produce products to be sold to our customers and while we closely monitor our subcontractors’ performance we cannot assure you that such subcontractors will continue to manufacture our products in a timely and effective manner. In the past a weakened economy led to the dissolution, bankruptcy or consolidation of some of the subcontractors who are able to manufacture our products, decreasing the available number of subcontractors. If the available number of subcontractors were to again decrease, it is possible that we would not be able to secure appropriate subcontractors to fulfill our demand in a timely manner or at all, particularly if demand for our products increases. The existence of fewer subcontractors may also reduce our negotiating leverage potentially resulting in higher product costs. Difficulties experienced by our subcontractors, including financial problems and the inability to make or ship our products or fix quality assurance problems, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we decide to change subcontractors, we could experience delays in finding, qualifying and commencing business with new subcontractors which would result in delay in delivery of our products and potentially the cancellation of orders for our products. A high concentration of our Fiery controller products is manufactured at a single subcontractor location, Celestica in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Should Celestica experience any inability to, or refuse to manufacture or deliver product from this location our business, financial condition and operations could be harmed. Since we do not maintain long-term agreements with our subcontractors, any of our subcontractors could enter into agreements with our competitors that might restrict or prohibit such subcontractors from manufacturing our products or could otherwise lead to an inability of such subcontractors from filling our orders in a timely manner. In such event, we may not be able to find suitable replacement subcontractors and our business, financial condition and operations would likely be harmed. We may face increased risk of inventory obsolescence related to our super-wide format inkjet printers and ink. We procure raw materials and build our super-wide printers and ink products based on our sales forecasts. If we do not accurately forecast demand for our products we may end up with excess inventory, or we may lose sales because we do not have the correct products available for sale. If we have excess printers or other products we may have to lower prices to stimulate demand. We may also run the risk that our inventory of raw materials may become obsolete. Our ink products have a defined shelf life. If we do not sell the ink before the end of its shelf life it will no longer be sellable and will have to be expensed. If we are not able to hire and retain skilled employees, we may not be able to develop products or meet demand for our products in a timely fashion. We depend upon skilled employees, such as software and hardware engineers, quality assurance engineers and other technical professionals with specialized skills. We are headquartered in the Silicon Valley and additionally have research and development offices in India. Competition in both locations has historically been intense amongst companies hiring engineering and technical professionals. In times of professional labor imbalances, it has in the past and is likely in the future to be difficult for us to locate and hire qualified engineers and technical professionals and for us to retain these people. There are many technology companies located near our corporate offices in the Silicon Valley and our operations in India that may try to hire our employees. The movement of our stock price may also impact our ability to hire and retain employees. If we do not offer competitive compensation, we may not be able to recruit or retain employees. We offer a broad-based equity compensation plan based on granting options from stockholder-approved plans in order to be competitive in the labor market. If stockholders do not approve additional shares for these plans or new plans for future grants when necessary to enable us to offer compensation competitive with those offered by other companies seeking the same employees, it may be difficult for us to hire and retain skilled employees. The FASB has announced changes to US GAAP that will require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and issuances of stock under employee stock purchase plans, or ESPPs which will 16 Table of Contents negatively impact our GAAP earnings. For example, recording a charge for employee stock options and ESPP under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation would have reduced net income by $12,746, $16,913 and $17,829 for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Limiting our stock option grants and ESPP could make it difficult to successfully hire and retain employees which could affect our ability to develop products or to meet demand for our products in a timely fashion and our results of operations may be harmed. We acquired VUTEk, Inc., a privately-held provider of super-wide format digital printers for approximately $289,150 in June 2005. Acquisitions involve risks and if we are unable to mitigate those risks our business will be harmed. Our acquisition of VUTEk was our largest acquisition to date. Our purchase was made in cash and we will experience a loss of interest income as our cash balances have been reduced. In addition, we have decreased our cash balances which could impair our financial condition and our ability to expend cash on other activities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional funds if and when needed on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to retain the key employees of VUTEk, the operations of the acquired company could be materially adversely impacted. Prior to the acquisition of VUTEk, we did not have experience in manufacturing and marketing super-wide format printers and ink products and as such we may not be able to effectively manage the VUTEk operations. If VUTEk’s principal suppliers, many of whom have no previous relationship with us, were to refuse to continue providing materials, we would be forced to find alternate supply sources, which could possibly lead to increased costs of operations. We do not have pre-existing relationships with the customers of VUTEk, and they may decide to discontinue purchasing from us. This would result in a loss of revenue and prevent us from obtaining the expected benefits of the acquisition. Our acquisition of VUTEk in June 2005 increased the chance that we will experience additional bad debt expense. Historically, our products have been sold to OEM customers who present little credit risk. Our VUTEk products are sold to a broader base of customers, many of whom are smaller and potentially less credit-worthy. In addition, some of these customers may be located overseas where it may be hard to contact them if we have collection issues. If we are unable to collect accounts receivable in a timely manner, we may experience an increase in bad debt expense. Because of our recent acquisitions we now must sell our products directly to distributors and to the end-user. If we are unable to effectively manage a direct sales force, sales and revenues could decline. We have traditionally sold our products to our OEM partners, who in turn sold the product to the end-user. Our marketing focused on manufacturers and distributors of the manufacturers’ equipment, not on the end-user of the product. We must now sell our professional printing applications and our super-wide-format inkjet printers and ink to the end-user. If we are unable to develop a sales force and marketing program that can reach the end-users, we are likely to see a decline in revenues from those products. We may make acquisitions that are dilutive to existing stockholders, result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We seek to develop new technologies and products from both internal and external sources. As part of this effort, we have in the past made, and will likely continue to make, acquisitions of other companies or other companies’ assets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, such as: • if we issue equity securities in connection with an acquisition, the issuance may be dilutive to our existing stockholders, alternatively, acquisitions made entirely or partially for cash (such as our acquisition of VUTEk) will reduce our cash reserves; 17 Table of Contents • difficulties in integration of operations, employees, technologies, or products and the related diversion of management time and effort to accomplish successful integration; • risks of entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience, or entering markets where competitors have stronger market positions; • possible write-downs of impaired assets; • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • possible expense overruns; • an adverse reaction by customers, suppliers or partners of the acquired company or EFI; • the risk of changes in ratings by stock analysts; • potential litigation surrounding transactions or the prior actions of the acquired company, such as the Printcafe litigation; • the inability to protect or secure technology rights; and • increases in operating costs. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky and we cannot assure you that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not harm our business, operating results, financial condition, or stock price. We face risks from currency fluctuations. Given the significance of our non-US sales to our total product revenue, we face a continuing risk from the fluctuation of the US dollar versus the Japanese yen, the euro and other major European currencies and numerous Southeast Asian currencies. We typically invoice our customers in US dollars and this may result in our products becoming more expensive in the local currency of our customers, thereby reducing our ability to sell our products. When we do invoice our customers in local currencies, our cash flows and earnings are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates between the currency of the invoice and the US dollar. In addition, we have a substantial number of international employees which creates material operating costs denominated in foreign currencies. In Europe, where we have a significant presence, our sales and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses have risen in part due to the weakened US dollar. We have attempted to limit or hedge these exposures through operational strategies where we have considered it appropriate in the past. Our efforts to reduce the risk from our international operations and from fluctuations in foreign currencies or interest rates may not be successful, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. In 2005, the impact from currency exchange differences was not material. Approximately 46% and 45% of our revenue from the sale of products for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, came from sales outside North America, primarily to Europe and Japan. We expect that sales outside North America will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. We face risks from our international operations. We are subject to certain risks because of our international operations. Changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to manufacture in international markets. Some of our sales to international customers are made under export licenses that must be obtained from the United States Department of Commerce (DOC) and certain transactions require prior approval of the DOC. Changes in governmental regulation and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals, permits or registrations could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues, business and operations. Any violations could result in fines and penalties, including prohibiting us from exporting our products to one or more countries, and could materially and adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the United States. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such United States laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other risks include natural disasters and political or economic conditions in a specific country or region. In addition, many countries in which we derive revenues do not currently have comprehensive and highly developed legal systems, particularly with respect to the protection of intellectual property rights, which, among other things, can result in the prevalence of infringing products and counterfeit goods in certain countries, which could harm our business and reputation. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary information and may incur expenses to defend our proprietary information. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and licensing and cross-licensing arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, all of which afford only limited protection. We have patents and pending patent applications in the United States and in various foreign countries. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from our pending applications or from any future applications, or that, if issued, any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any failure to adequately protect our proprietary information could harm our financial condition and operating results. We cannot be certain that any patents that have been or may in the future be issued to us, or which we license from third parties, or any other of our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, we cannot be certain that any rights granted to us under any patents, licenses or other proprietary rights will provide adequate protection of our proprietary information. In addition, as different areas of our business change or mature, from time to time we evaluate our patent portfolio and make decisions either to pursue or not to pursue specific patents and patent applications related to such areas. Abandoning or choosing not to pursue certain of our patents, patentable applications and failing to file applications for potentially patentable inventions, may harm our business by, among other things, enabling our competitors to more effectively compete with us, reducing the potential claims we can bring against third parties for patent infringement and limiting our potential defenses to intellectual property claims brought by third parties. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to defend and enforce our proprietary rights. Such litigation, whether or not concluded successfully for us, could involve significant expense and the diversion of our attention and other resources, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We face risks from third party claims of infringement and potential litigation. Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that our products infringe, or may infringe, their proprietary rights. Such claims have in the past resulted in lengthy and expensive litigation and could do so in the future. Such claims and any related litigation, whether or not we are successful in the litigation, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Although we may seek licenses from third parties covering intellectual property that we are allegedly infringing, we cannot assure you that any such licenses could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. 19 Table of Contents We may be subject to environmental related liabilities due to our use of hazardous materials and solvents. We mix ink used in some of our printers with solvents and other hazardous materials. Those materials are subject to various governmental regulations relating to their transfer, handling, packaging, use and disposal. We store the ink at warehouses worldwide, including Europe and the United States, and shipping companies ship it at our direction. We face potential responsibility for problems such as spills that may arise when we ship the ink to customers. While we customarily obtain insurance coverage typical for this kind of risk, if we fail to comply with these laws or an accident involving our ink waste or solvents occurs, then our business and financial results could be harmed. Future sales of our hardware products in European Union member nations (EU) could be limited after July 1, 2006 due to the enactment of the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (ROHS). From July 1, 2006 forward, new electrical and electronic equipment sold into EU nations must not contain lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) or polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). These must be replaced by other substances. Manufacturers must comply with significant, and potentially costly, compliance requirements in order to meet the ROHS deadline. Some of our products may not be converted before the deadline and we will not be allowed to sell those products in the EU until the products are made fully compliant. Our products may contain defects which are not discovered until after shipping. Our products consist of hardware and software developed by ourselves and others. Our products may contain undetected errors and we have in the past discovered software and hardware errors in certain of our products after their introduction, resulting in warranty expense and other expenses incurred in connection with rectifying such errors. Errors could be found in new versions of our products after commencement of commercial shipment and any such errors could result in a loss or delay in market acceptance of such products and thus harm our reputation and revenues. In addition, errors in our products (including errors in licensed third party software) detected prior to new product releases could result in delays in the introduction of new products and our incurring additional expense, which could harm our operating results. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could adversely affect our revenues. Maintaining the security of our software and hardware products is an issue of critical importance to our customers and for us. There are individuals and groups who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Although we take preventative measures to protect our products, and we have a response team that is notified of high-risk malicious events, these procedures may not be sufficient to mitigate damage to our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases or to purchase competitive products. Customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their computer systems from attack, which could delay or reduce purchases of our products. Any of these actions or responses by customers could adversely affect our revenues. System failures or system unavailability could harm our business. We rely on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and our internal and external websites for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. Our hardware and software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from malicious code released into the public Internet through recently discovered vulnerabilities in popular software programs. These systems are also subject to acts of vandalism and to potential disruption by actions or inactions of third parties. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 20 Table of Contents The location and concentration of our facilities subjects us to the risk of earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters and public health risks. Our corporate headquarters, including most of our research and development facilities, are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, an area known for seismic activity. This area has also experienced flooding in the past. In addition, many of the components necessary to supply our products are purchased from suppliers based in areas including the San Francisco Bay Area, Taiwan and Japan and are therefore subject to risk from natural disasters. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, flood or typhoon, could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our employees, suppliers and customers are located worldwide. We face the risk that our employees, suppliers, or customers, either through travel or contact with other individuals, could become exposed to contagious diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”) or avian bird flu. In addition, governments in those regions have from time-to-time imposed quarantines and taken other actions in response to contagious diseases that could affect our operations. If a significant number of employees, suppliers, or customers were unable to fulfill their obligations, due to contagious diseases, actions taken in response to contagious diseases, or other reasons, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. We may be subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in the manufacturing process of our inks are flammable. We use flammable materials in the manufacturing processes of our inks and may therefore be subject to the risk of loss arising from fires. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Moreover, we have one main facility that manufactures these inks, which increases our exposure to such risk in case this facility is destroyed or materially damaged as a result of fire or otherwise. We maintain insurance policies to reduce losses caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. If this facility is damaged or otherwise ceases operations as a result of a fire, it would reduce manufacturing capacity and, consequently, may reduce revenues and adversely affect our business. The value of our investment portfolio will decrease if interest rates increase. We have an investment portfolio of mainly fixed income securities classified as available-for-sale securities. As a result, our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. We attempt to limit this exposure to interest rate risk by investing in securities with maturities of less than three years; however, we may be unable to successfully limit our risk to interest rate fluctuations and this may cause our investment portfolio to decrease in value. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2005, the price of our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq National Market ranged from a low of $16.07 to a high of $28.55. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • our failure to meet analyst expectations • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements relating to strategic relationships, acquisitions or investments; • announcements by our customers regarding their businesses or the products in which our products are included; • changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts; 21 Table of Contents • changes in general economic conditions; • terrorist attacks and the effects of military engagements or natural disasters; • changes in the rating of our debentures or other securities; • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other software and high-technology companies; and • commencement of litigation or adverse results in pending litigation. Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts from time-to-time and the trading prices of our securities could decline as a result. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many high-technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of high-technology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and add volatility. Any repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and add volatility. There can be no assurance that the repurchases will be made at the best possible price. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, we are permitted to and could discontinue our stock repurchase program at any time and any such discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Under regulations required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, an adverse opinion on internal controls over financial reporting could be issued by our auditors, and this could have a negative impact on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and assess on an on-going basis the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Our auditors, an independent registered public accounting firm, are required to attest audit both the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and management’s assessment of the design and the effectiveness of its internal controls for financial reporting. Although no known material weaknesses are believed to exist at this time, it is possible that material weaknesses could be identified. If we are unable to remediate the weaknesses, our management would be required to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective and our auditors would be required to issue an adverse opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. It is uncertain what impact an adverse opinion would have upon our stock price. In addition to their inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting and the audit of such controls by our auditors may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors, omissions, or fraud. A reduction in our net income as reported on our financial statements could increase the likelihood of identifying a material weakness in our internal controls. The threshold for determining whether or not we have a material weakness in our internal controls and procedures as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is, in part, based on our generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, net income. Lowered GAAP net income, with an associated lowered materiality threshold, may increase our risk of having to disclose control weaknesses. For example, continued acquisitions, and the associated amortization of intangibles, will increase our amortization expenses and in the future may lower our GAAP earnings which would result in a lower materiality threshold for internal control testing. A lower materiality threshold requires us to test more areas of the business. As the number of areas tested increases, the statistical chance of discovering a material weakness increases. 22 Table of Contents Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. In June 2003, we issued $240,000 in 1.50% convertible senior debentures due in 2023. During the period the debentures are outstanding, we will have debt service obligations on the debentures of approximately $3,600 per year in interest payments, payable semi-annually. In addition, beginning June 1, 2008, we could be required to pay contingent interest of 0.35% if during any nine-month period from June 1 to November 30 and December 1 to May 31, the average market price of the debentures for the five trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant nine-month period equals 120% or more of the principal amount of the debentures. Our debt service obligations related to the debentures include the following redemption and repurchase terms that could also affect our cash position: • On or after June 1, 2008, we may redeem the debentures for cash at any time as a whole, or from time to time in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debenture to be redeemed plus any accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any; • On June 1, 2008 a holder may require us to repurchase all or a portion of that holder’s debentures at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any, to, but not including, the date of repurchase in cash; and • A holder may require us to repurchase all or a portion of that holder’s debentures if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture, occurs prior to June 1, 2008 at 100% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any to, but not including, the repurchase date. We may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from cash generated by our operations, if any and from our existing cash and investments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and must instead use our existing cash or investments, we may have to reduce, curtail or terminate other activities of our business. We may add lines of credit and obtain other long-term debt and mortgage financing to finance capital expenditures in the future. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, as we are required to make interest payments and maintain compliance with financial covenants contained in the debentures regardless of such external conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing due to covenants contained in the debentures and the existing leverage evidenced by the debentures; • require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry by restricting the funds available for use in addressing such changes; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less debt. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 