Risk Factors The matters relating to the Special Committee’s review of our historical stock option grant practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements required us to incur substantial expenses for accounting, legal and other professional services, diverted our management’s attention from our business and had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. On October 24, 2006, we announced that a Special Committee of our Board of Directors had commenced an independent investigation of our historical stock option grants. On May 7, 2007, we announced that, based on information obtained by the Special Committee relating to a portion of the historical option grants under review, we believed that the actual measurement dates for certain stock option grants made during the period under review differed from the recorded grant dates used for financial accounting and reporting purposes for such options. Based on information obtained by the Special Committee, we concluded that our financial statements, earnings releases and similar communications relating to the period 1992 through June 30, 2006 should no longer be relied upon. On June 29, 2007, we announced the completion of the independent investigation by the Special Committee, and the remedial actions being taken in response to the findings and recommendations of the Special Committee. The Special Committee investigation and findings relating to stock option practices, the restatement and remedial measures adopted by our Board of Directors as a result of the investigation were described in detail in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements,” Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 10 Table of Contents Operations,” and Part II, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the SEC on October 19, 2007. The independent investigation of our historical stock option practices and resulting restatement activities required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses totaling $19.3 million in 2007. As a result of the events described above, we have become subject to a number of significant risks, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, described below. See Item 1A—We face risks related to possible SEC and regulatory actions regarding our historical stock option grant practices, which could require significant management time and attention, and could require us to pay fines or other penalties; and We face litigation risks relating to our stock option grant practices that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. We face risks related to possible SEC and regulatory actions regarding our historical stock option grant practices, which could require significant management time and attention, and could require us to pay fines or other penalties. In connection with the Special Committee investigation of our historical stock option grant practices and related informal inquiry by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), we voluntarily continued to keep the SEC advised of the issues identified during the investigation, its progress and our conclusions. Although no formal inquiry has been made by any regulatory agency with respect to the investigation and the related restatement, we are unable to predict whether any such formal inquiry will be initiated or what consequences, if any, that any such further inquiry may have on us. Any regulatory inquiry could result in substantial legal expenses, divert management’s attention from other business concerns and harm our business. If a regulatory agency were to commence legal action, it is possible that we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or fines and could become subject to administrative orders. Any regulatory action could result in the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements or require that we take other actions. We believe our filings comply with all applicable requirements. Nevertheless, the issues surrounding our historical stock option grant practices are complex and the regulatory guidelines or requirements continue to evolve. There can be no assurance that further SEC or other requirements will not evolve or that we will not be required to further restate our prior financial statements. In addition to the cost and time to amend financial reports, such amendments may have a materially adverse effect on investors and the price of our Common Stock and could result in a delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Select Market. We face litigation risks relating to our stock option grant practices that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flow. A number of purported shareholder derivative complaints have been filed against us in connection with our historical stock option grant practices. The complaints allege, among other things, that certain of our current and past officers and directors breached their fiduciary duty to the Company by improperly backdating certain grants of stock options to officers and directors of the Company and violating the terms of our stock option plans, violating generally accepted accounting practices and producing and disseminating statements that improperly accounted for the options and concealed the alleged backdating. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for a further description of these proceedings. The defense of these lawsuits has resulted, and will likely result in the future, in significant expense and the continued diversion of management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. An unfavorable outcome in any of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We retain employment practices liability and director and officer liability insurance but there can be no guarantee that such 11 Table of Contents insurance will cover the claims that are made or will insure us fully for all losses on covered claims. Under our bylaws, charter and indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers, directors and general counsel, we are required, subject to certain limited qualifications, to indemnify, and advance expenses to, our current and former executive officers, directors and general counsel in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. There can be no assurance that such payments in connection with the derivative actions will not be material. Additionally, in the future, we may be the subject of additional private or government actions related to our option grant practices. Litigation is time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation, as well as its costs, are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We rely on sales to a relatively small number of OEM customers and the loss of any of these OEM customers could substantially decrease our revenues. A significant portion of our revenues are and have been generated by sales of our printer and copier related products to a relatively small number of OEMs. For example, Canon and Xerox each contributed over 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 and together accounted for approximately 31% of those revenues during the same period. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, Canon and Xerox each contributed over 10% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and together accounted for approximately 34% of those revenues for the year. Because sales of our printer and copier-related products constitute a significant portion of our revenues and there is a limited number of OEMs producing copiers and printers in sufficient volume to be attractive customers for us, we expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively small number of OEM customers for a significant portion of our controller revenues in future periods. In addition, our OEM customers have developed, and may continue to develop, their own controller products, which may compete directly with our products, which may adversely affect our revenues. Accordingly, if we lose or experience reduced sales to an important OEM customer, we will have difficulty replacing the revenue previously generated from such customers with sales to new or existing OEM customers and our controller revenue will likely decline significantly. The market for our super-wide-format printers is very competitive. The printing equipment industry is extremely competitive. Our VUTEk products compete against several companies that market digital printing systems based on electrostatic, drop-on-demand and continuous drop-on-demand inkjet, airbrush and other technologies and printers utilizing solvent and UV curable ink. Two of our largest competitors, NUR and Scitex Vision, were acquired by Hewlett Packard (“HP”) and another large competitor, Inca, was acquired by Dai Nippon Screen (“Screen”). Both HP and Screen have greater resources to develop new products and technologies and market those products, as well as acquire or develop critical components at lower costs, which would provide a competitive advantage. They could also exert downward pressure on product pricing to gain market share. We have also witnessed the recent growth of local Chinese and Korean markets where local competitors are developing, manufacturing and selling inexpensive printers, mainly to the local Chinese and Korean markets. These Chinese and Korean manufacturers have also begun penetrating the international market and have partnered with other super-wide format printer manufacturers. Our ability to compete depends on factors both within and outside of our control, including the price, performance and acceptance of our current printers and any products we develop in the future. We also face competition from existing conventional wide format and super-wide format printing methods, including screen printing and offset printing. Our competitors could develop new products, with existing or new technology, that could be more competitive in our market than our printers. We cannot assure you that we can compete effectively with any such products. 12 Table of Contents We face strong competition in the market for printing supplies such as ink. We compete with independent manufacturers in the ink market. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to remain the exclusive or even principal ink supplier for our printers. The loss of ink sales to our installed base of printers could adversely impact our revenues and gross margins. We could also experience an overall reduction in price within the ink markets, which would also adversely affect our gross margins. Solvent inks are relatively easy to replicate and additional manufacturers could increase pricing competition or divert customers away from us. We do not typically have long term purchase contracts with our OEM customers and our OEM customers have in the past and could at any time in the future, reduce or cease purchasing products from us, harming our operating results and business. With the exception of certain minimum purchase obligations, we typically do not have long-term volume purchase contracts with our OEM customers, including Canon, Xerox and Konica Minolta and they are not obligated to purchase products from us. Accordingly, our customers could at any time reduce their purchases from us or cease purchasing our products altogether. In the past, some of our OEM customers have elected to develop products on their own, rather than rely, solely or partially, on our products and we expect that customers will continue to make such elections in the future. In addition, because our OEM customers incorporate our products into products they manufacture and sell, any decline in demand for copiers or laser printers and any other negative developments affecting our major customers or the computer industry in general, including reduced demand for the products sold by our OEM customers, would likely harm our results of operations. For example, certain customers have in the past experienced serious financial difficulties which led to a decline in sales of our products to these customers. If any significant customers should face such difficulties in the future, our operating results could be harmed through, among other things, decreased sales volumes and write-offs of accounts receivables and inventory related to products we have manufactured for these customers’ products. In addition, a significant portion of our operating expenses are fixed in advance based on projected sales levels and margins, sales forecasts from our OEM customers and product development programs. A substantial portion of our backlog is scheduled for delivery within 90 days or less and our customers may cancel orders and change volume levels or delivery times for product they have ordered from us without penalty. Accordingly, if sales to our OEM customers are below expectations in any given quarter, the adverse impact of the shortfall in revenues on operating results may be and have been increased by our inability to adjust spending in the short term to compensate for this shortfall. We rely on our OEM customers to develop and sell products incorporating our controller technologies and if they fail to successfully develop and sell these products, or curtail or cease the use of our technologies in their products, our business will be harmed. We rely upon our OEM customers to develop new products, applications and product enhancements utilizing our controller technologies in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our continued success in the controller industry depends upon the ability of these OEM customers to utilize our technologies while meeting changing end-user customer needs and responding to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. However, we cannot provide assurance that our OEM customers will effectively meet these challenges. These OEM customers are generally not obligated to purchase products from us and we cannot provide assurance that they will continue to carry our products. For example, our OEM customers have incorporated into their products the technologies of other companies or internally developed technologies in addition to, or instead of, our technologies and will likely continue to do so in the future. If our OEM customers do not effectively and successfully market products containing our technologies, our revenue will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our OEM customers work closely with us to develop products that are specific to each OEM customer’s copiers and printers. Many of the products and technologies we are developing require that we coordinate development, 13 Table of Contents quality testing, marketing and other tasks with our OEM customers. We cannot control our OEM customers’ development efforts or the timing of these efforts and coordinating with our OEM customers may cause delays in our own product development efforts that are outside of our control. If our OEM customers delay the release of their products, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, our revenue and results of operations may be adversely affected if we cannot meet our OEM customers’ product needs for their specific copiers and printers, as well as successfully manage the additional engineering and support effort and other risks associated with such a wide range of products. Ongoing economic uncertainty has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depends significantly on the overall demand for information technology products that enable printing of digital data, which in turn depends on a variety of macro- and micro-economic conditions. In addition, our revenue growth and profitability in our Inkjet business depends on demand and spending for advertising and marketing products and programs, which also depends on a variety of macro- and micro-economic conditions. Delays or reductions in information technology spending, which has occurred in the past, could cause a decline in demand for our products and services and consequently harm our business, operating results, financial condition, prospects and stock price. Our operating results may fluctuate based upon many factors, which could adversely affect our stock price. Stock prices of high technology companies such as ours tend to be volatile as a result of various factors, including variations in operating results and, consequently, fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect our stock price. Factors that have caused our operating results and stock price to fluctuate in the past and that may cause future fluctuations include: • varying demand for our products, due to seasonality, OEM customer product development and marketing efforts, OEM customer financial and operational condition, OEM inventory management practices and general economic conditions; • shifts in customer demand to lower cost products; • success and timing of new product introductions by us and our OEM customers and the performance of our products generally; • success and timing of new inkjet product introductions; • volatility in foreign exchange rates, changes in interest rates and availability of bank or financing credit to consumers of digital copiers and printers; • price reductions by us and our competitors, which may be exacerbated by competitive pressures caused by economic conditions generally; • substitution of third-party inks for our own ink products by users of our super-wide format inkjet printers; • delay, cancellation or rescheduling of orders or projects; • delays or shortages of supply of our key components, including without limitation inkjet print heads, and inability of our suppliers to meet our requirements; • availability of key components and licenses, including possible delays in deliveries from suppliers, the performance of third-party manufacturers and the status of our relationships with our key suppliers; • potential excess or shortage of employees and location of research and development centers; • changes in our product mix such as shifts from higher revenue or gross margin products to lower revenue or gross margin products such as our inkjet products; 14 Table of Contents • costs associated with complying with any applicable governmental regulations; • cost associated with possible SEC and regulatory actions regarding our historical stock option granting practices and remedial measures we are taking with respect to our historical stock option granting practices; • acquisitions and integration of new businesses; • costs related to our entry into new markets, such as commercial printing and office equipment service automation; • general economic conditions; • commencement of litigation or adverse results in pending litigation, including the purported shareholder derivative suits related to our historical stock option granting practices; and • other risks described herein. We face competition from other suppliers as well as our own OEM customers and if we are not able to compete successfully our business may be harmed. The digital printing marketplace is highly competitive and is characterized by rapid technological changes. We compete against a number of other suppliers of imaging products and technologies, including our OEM customers themselves. Although we attempt to develop and support innovative products that end-users demand, products or technologies developed by competing suppliers, including our own OEM customers, could render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. While many of our OEM customers incorporate our technologies into their end products on an exclusive basis, we do not have any formal agreements that prevent these OEM customers from offering alternative products that do not incorporate our technologies. If, as has occurred in the past, an OEM customer offers products incorporating technology from alternative suppliers instead of, or in addition to, products incorporating our technologies, our market share could decrease, which would likely reduce our revenue and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, many OEMs in the printer and copier industry, including most of our OEM customers, internally develop and sell products that compete directly with our current products. These OEMs have significant investments in their existing solutions and have substantial resources that may enable them to develop or improve, more quickly than us, technologies similar to ours that are compatible with their own products. Our OEM customers have in the past marketed, and likely will continue in the future to market, their own internal technologies and solutions in addition to ours, even when their technologies and solutions are less advanced, have lower performance or cost more than our products. Given the significant financial, marketing and other resources of our larger OEM customers and other significant OEMs in the imaging industry who are not our customers, we may not be able to successfully compete against these OEMs selling similar products that they develop internally. If we cannot compete successfully against the OEMs’ internally developed products, we will lose sales and market share in those areas where the OEMs choose to compete and our business will be harmed. Price reductions for all of our products may affect our revenues in the future. We have made and may in the future make price reductions for our products in order to drive demand and remain competitive. Depending upon the price-elasticity of demand for our products, the pricing and quality of competitive products and other economic and competitive conditions, such price reductions may have an adverse impact on our revenues and profits. If we are not able to compensate for lower gross margins that may result from price reductions with an increased volume of sales, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Entry into new markets or distribution channels could result in higher operating expenses that may not be offset by increased revenue. We continue to explore opportunities to develop or acquire product lines different from our current controllers, such as print management software, document scanning solutions and inkjet printers. We expect to continue to invest funds to develop new distribution and marketing channels for these and additional new products and services, which will increase our operating expenses. We do not know if we will be successful in developing these channels or whether the market will accept any of our new products or services or if we will generate sufficient revenues from these activities to offset the additional operating expenses we incur. In addition, even if we are able to introduce new products or services, if customers do not accept these new products or services or if we are not able to price such products or services competitively, our operating results will likely suffer. We license software used in most of our products from Adobe Systems Incorporated and the loss of this license would prevent us from shipping these products. Many of our current products include software that we must license from Adobe. Specifically, we are required to obtain separate licenses from Adobe for the right to use Adobe PostScript® software in each type of copier or printer used with a Fiery Controller. Although to date we have successfully obtained licenses to use Adobe’s PostScript® software when required, Adobe is not required to, and we cannot be certain that Adobe will, grant future licenses to Adobe PostScript® software on reasonable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, in order to obtain licenses from Adobe, Adobe requires that we obtain from them quality assurance approvals for our products that use Adobe software. Although to date we have successfully obtained such quality assurances from Adobe, we cannot be certain Adobe will grant us such approvals in the future. If Adobe does not grant us such licenses or approvals, if the Adobe licenses are terminated, or if our relationship with Adobe is otherwise materially impaired, we would likely be unable to sell products that incorporate Adobe PostScript® software and our financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed. We depend upon a limited group of suppliers for key components in our products. The loss of any of these suppliers, the inability of any of these suppliers to meet our requirements, or the delays or shortages of supply of these components could adversely affect our business. Certain components necessary for the manufacture of our products are obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. These include processors from Intel and other related semiconductor components and inkjet print heads for our super-wide format printers. We do not maintain long-term agreements with any of our component suppliers and conduct our business with such suppliers solely on a purchase order basis. If we are unable to continue to procure these sole-sourced components from our current suppliers in the required quantities, we will have to qualify other sources, if possible, or design our products so that they no longer require these components. In addition, these suppliers may be concentrated within similar industries or geographic locations, which could potentially exacerbate these risks. We cannot provide assurance that other sources of these components exist or will be willing to supply us on reasonable terms or at all, or that we will be able to design around these components. Therefore any unavailability, delays or shortages of supply of these components or any inability of our suppliers to meet our requirements could harm our business. Because the purchase of certain key components involves long lead times, in the event of unanticipated volatility in demand for our products, we have been in the past and may in the future be unable to manufacture certain products in a quantity sufficient to meet demand. Further, as has occurred in the past, in the event that anticipated demand does not materialize, we may hold excess quantities of inventory that could become obsolete. In order to meet projected demand, we maintain an inventory of components for which we are dependent upon sole or limited source suppliers and components with prices that fluctuate significantly. As a result, we are subject to a risk of inventory obsolescence, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, the market prices and availability of certain components, particularly memory and Intel-designed components, which collectively represent a substantial portion of the total manufactured cost of our products, have fluctuated significantly in the past. Such fluctuations in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition including a reduction in gross margins. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent on a limited number of subcontractors, with whom we do not have long-term contracts, to manufacture and deliver products to our customers and the loss of any of these subcontractors could adversely affect our business. We subcontract with other companies to manufacture our products and we do not have long-term agreements with these subcontractors. We rely on the ability of our subcontractors to produce products to be sold to our customers and while we closely monitor our subcontractors’ performance we cannot assure you that such subcontractors will continue to manufacture our products in a timely and effective manner. In the past a weakened economy led to the dissolution, bankruptcy or consolidation of some of the subcontractors who are able to manufacture our products, decreasing the available number of subcontractors. If the available number of subcontractors were to again decrease, it is possible that we would not be able to secure appropriate subcontractors to fulfill our demand in a timely manner or at all, particularly if demand for our products increases. The existence of fewer subcontractors may also reduce our negotiating leverage potentially resulting in higher product costs. Difficulties experienced by our subcontractors, including financial problems and the inability to make or ship our products or fix quality assurance problems, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we decide to change subcontractors, we could experience delays in finding, qualifying and commencing business with new subcontractors which would result in both delay in delivery of our products and also potentially the cancellation of orders for our products. A high concentration of our Fiery controllers is manufactured at a single subcontractor location, Celestica in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Should Celestica experience any inability to, or refuse to, manufacture or deliver product from this location our business, financial condition and operations could be harmed. Since we do not maintain long-term agreements with our subcontractors, any of our subcontractors could enter into agreements with our competitors that might restrict or prohibit such subcontractors from manufacturing our products or could otherwise lead to an inability of such subcontractors from filling our orders in a timely manner. In such event, we may not be able to find suitable replacement subcontractors and our business, financial condition and operations would likely be harmed. We may face increased risk of inventory obsolescence related to our super-wide format inkjet printers and ink. We procure raw materials and build our super-wide printers and ink products based on our sales forecasts. If we do not accurately forecast demand for our products we may end up with excess inventory, or we may lose sales because we do not have the correct products available for sale. If we have excess printers or other products we may have to lower prices to stimulate demand. We may also run the risk that our inventory of raw materials may become obsolete. Our ink products have a defined shelf life. If we do not sell the ink before the end of its shelf life it will no longer be sellable and will have to be expensed. If we are not able to hire and retain skilled employees, we may not be able to develop products or meet demand for our products in a timely fashion. We depend upon skilled employees, such as software and hardware engineers, quality assurance engineers and other technical professionals with specialized skills. We are headquartered in the Silicon Valley and additionally have research and development offices in India. Competition in both locations has historically been intense amongst companies hiring engineering and technical professionals. In times of professional labor imbalances, it has in the past and is likely in the future to be difficult for us to locate and hire qualified engineers and technical professionals and for us to retain these people. There are many technology companies located near our corporate offices in the Silicon Valley and our operations in India that may try to hire our employees. The movement of our stock price may also impact our ability to hire and retain employees. If we do not offer competitive compensation, we may not be able to recruit or retain employees. We offer a broad-based equity compensation plan based on granting options and restricted stock from stockholder-approved plans in order to be competitive in the labor market. If we cannot offer equity awards when necessary to enable us to offer compensation competitive with those offered by other companies seeking the same employees, it may be difficult for us to hire and retain skilled employees. 17 Table of Contents Our acquisition of VUTEk in June 2005 and Jetrion in October 2006 increased the chance that we will experience additional bad debt expense. Our OEM customers are typically large profitable customers who present little credit risk to us. Our APPS and Inkjet businesses sell primarily via a direct sales force to a broader base of customers, many of whom are smaller and potentially less credit worthy. In addition, as we continue to increase our revenues from our Inkjet customers, many of whom are located overseas in many countries, it may be hard to enforce our legal rights should collection issues arise. Because of our recent acquisitions we now sell our products to distributors and directly to the end-user. If we are unable to effectively manage a direct sales force, sales and revenues could decline. We have traditionally sold our products to our OEM partners, who in turn sold the product to the end-user. Our marketing focused on manufacturers and distributors of the manufacturers’ equipment, not on the end-user of the product. We now sell our professional printing applications and our inkjet printers and ink to distributors and directly to the end-user. If we are unable to effectively manage a direct sales force and develop a marketing program that can reach the end-users, we are likely to see a decline in revenues from those products. We have made acquisitions that are dilutive to existing stockholders. Acquisitions may result in unanticipated accounting charges or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We seek to develop new technologies and products from both internal and external sources. As part of this effort, we have in the past made, and will likely continue to make, acquisitions of other companies or other companies’ assets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, such as: • if we issue equity securities in connection with an acquisition, the issuance may be dilutive to our existing stockholders; alternatively, acquisitions made entirely or partially for cash (such as our acquisition of VUTEk) will reduce our cash reserves; • difficulties in integration of operations, employees, technologies, or products and the related diversion of management time and effort to accomplish successful integration; • risks of entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience, or entering markets where competitors have stronger market positions; • possible write-downs of impaired assets; 18 Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • possible expense overruns; • an adverse reaction by customers, suppliers or partners of the acquired company or EFI; • the risk of changes in ratings by stock analysts; • potential litigation surrounding transactions or the prior actions of the acquired company, such as the VUTEk patent lawsuit and Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) export investigation; • the inability to protect or secure technology rights; • increases in operating costs; and • potential violation of covenants associated with our convertible senior debentures. Mergers and acquisitions of companies are inherently risky and we cannot provide assurance that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not harm our business, operating results, financial condition, or stock price. We face risks from currency fluctuations. Approximately $293.4 million and $260.7 million of our revenue from the sale of products for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, came from sales outside the Americas, primarily to Europe and Japan. We expect that sales outside the Americas will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. Given the significance of our non-U.S. sales to our total product revenue, we face a continuing risk from the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus the Japanese yen, the Euro and other major European currencies and numerous Southeast Asian currencies. We typically quote and invoice our customers in U.S. dollars and this may result in our products becoming more expensive in the local currency of our customers, thereby reducing our ability to sell our products. When we do invoice our customers in local currencies, our cash flows and earnings are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates between the currency of the invoice and the U.S. dollar. In addition, we have a substantial number of international employees which creates material operating costs denominated in foreign currencies. In Europe, where we have a significant presence, our sales and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses have increased in part due to the weakened U.S. dollar. We have attempted to limit or hedge these exposures through operational strategies where we have considered it appropriate in the past, although no hedging activities occurred in 2007. Our efforts to reduce the risk from our international operations and from fluctuations in foreign currencies or interest rates may not be successful, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We believe that the impact from currency exchange differences in 2007 was not material. We face risks from our international operations. We are subject to certain risks because of our international operations. Changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. Trade legislation in either the United States or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws or other trade policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to manufacture in international markets. Some of our sales to international customers are made under export licenses that must be obtained from the United States Department of Commerce (“DOC”) and certain transactions require prior approval of the DOC. Changes in governmental regulation and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals, permits or registrations could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues, business and operations. Any violations could result in fines and penalties, including prohibiting us from exporting our products to one or more countries, and could materially and adversely affect our business. 19 Table of Contents Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the United States. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by United States regulations applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such United States laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other risks include natural disasters and political or economic conditions in a specific country or region. In addition, many countries in which we derive revenues do not currently have comprehensive and highly developed legal systems, particularly with respect to the protection of intellectual property rights, which, among other things, can result in the prevalence of infringing products and counterfeit goods in certain countries, which could harm our business and reputation. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary information and may incur expenses to defend our proprietary information. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret protection, nondisclosure agreements and licensing and cross-licensing arrangements to establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights, all of which afford only limited protection. We have patents and pending patent applications in the United States and in various foreign countries. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from our pending applications or from any future applications, or that, if issued, any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Any failure to adequately protect our proprietary information could harm our financial condition and operating results. We cannot be certain that any patents that have been or may in the future be issued to us, or which we license from third parties, or any other of our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, we cannot be certain that any rights granted to us under any patents, licenses or other proprietary rights will provide adequate protection of our proprietary information. In addition, as different areas of our business change or mature, from time to time we evaluate our patent portfolio and make decisions either to pursue or not to pursue specific patents and patent applications related to such areas. Choosing not to pursue certain of our patents, patentable applications and failing to file applications for potentially patentable inventions, may harm our business by, among other things, enabling our competitors to more effectively compete with us, reducing the potential claims we can bring against third parties for patent infringement and limiting our potential defenses to intellectual property claims brought by third parties. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to defend and enforce our proprietary rights. Such litigation, whether or not concluded successfully for us, could involve significant expense and the diversion of our attention and other resources, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. We face risks from third party claims of infringement and potential litigation. Third parties have claimed in the past and may claim in the future that our products infringe, or may infringe, their proprietary rights. Such claims have in the past resulted in lengthy and expensive litigation and could do so in the future. Such claims and any related litigation, whether or not we are successful in the litigation, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Although we may seek licenses from third parties covering intellectual property that we are allegedly infringing, we cannot assure you that any such licenses could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. 20 Table of Contents We may be subject to environmental related liabilities due to our use of hazardous materials and solvents. We conduct our business operations that involve the use of certain hazardous materials at two separate locations. At these facilities, we mix ink used in some of our printers with solvents and other hazardous materials. Those materials are subject to various governmental regulations relating to their transfer, handling, packaging, use and disposal. We store the ink at warehouses worldwide, including Europe and the United States, and shipping companies ship it at our direction. We face potential responsibility for problems such as spills that may arise when we ship the ink to customers. While we customarily obtain insurance coverage typical for this kind of risk, if we fail to comply with these laws or an accident involving our ink waste or solvents occurs, then our business and financial results could be harmed. Future sales of our hardware products in European Union member countries (“EU”) could be limited due to the enactment of the EU Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“ROHS”). Since July 1, 2006 forward, new electrical and electronic equipment sold in the EU must not contain lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls (“PBBs”) or polybrominated diphenyl ethers (“PBDEs”). These must be replaced by other non- or less than-toxic substances. Manufacturers must comply with significant, and potentially costly, compliance requirements in order to meet the ROHS deadline. Some of our products may not have been converted before the deadline. As a result, we may not be allowed to sell those products in the EU until the products are made fully compliant, which could harm our business and financial results We could also incur additional costs and liabilities in connection with non-compliant product recalls, regulatory fines and exclusion of non-compliant products from certain markets. Our products may contain defects which are not discovered until after shipping. Our products consist of hardware and software developed by ourselves and others. Our products may contain undetected errors and we have in the past discovered software and hardware errors in certain of our products after their introduction, resulting in warranty expense and other expenses incurred in connection with rectifying such errors. Errors could be found in new versions of our products after commencement of commercial shipment and any such errors could result in a loss or delay in market acceptance of such products and thus harm our reputation and revenues. In addition, errors in our products (including errors in licensed third party software) detected prior to new product releases could result in delays in the introduction of new products and our incurring additional expense, which could harm our operating results. We currently provide a twelve month warranty for certain products, which may cover both parts and labor. In the future, we may incur substantial warranty claim expenses on our products which may exceed our estimated warranty reserves, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could adversely affect our revenues. Maintaining the security of our software and hardware products is an issue of critical importance to our customers and for us. There are individuals and groups who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Although we take preventative measures to protect our products, and we have a response team that is notified of high-risk malicious events, these procedures may not be sufficient to mitigate damage to our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could lead some customers to seek to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases or to purchase competitive products. Customers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their computer systems from attack, which could delay or reduce purchases of our products. Any of these actions or responses by customers could adversely affect our revenues. 21 Table of Contents System failures or system unavailability could harm our business. We rely on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and our internal and external websites for our development, marketing, operational, support and sales activities. Our hardware and software systems related to such activities are subject to damage from malicious code released into the public Internet through recently discovered vulnerabilities in popular software programs. These systems are also subject to acts of vandalism and to potential disruption by actions or inactions of third parties. Any event that causes failures or interruption in our hardware or software systems could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The location and concentration of our facilities subjects us to the risk of earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters and public health risks. Our corporate headquarters, including most of our research and development facilities, are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, an area known for seismic activity. This area has also experienced flooding in the past. In addition, many of the components necessary to supply our products are purchased from suppliers based in areas including the San Francisco Bay Area, Taiwan and Japan and are therefore subject to risk from natural disasters. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, flood or typhoon, could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our employees, suppliers and customers are located worldwide. We face the risk that our employees, suppliers, or customers, either through travel or contact with other individuals, could become exposed to contagious diseases endemic to particular regions of the world. In addition, governments in those regions have from time-to-time imposed quarantines and taken other actions in response to contagious diseases that could affect our operations. If a significant number of employees, suppliers, or customers were unable to fulfill their obligations, due to contagious diseases, actions taken in response to contagious diseases, or other reasons, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. We are subject to numerous federal and state employment laws and may face claims in the future under such laws. We are subject to numerous federal and state employment laws, and from time to time we face claims by our employees and former employees under such laws. In addition, the number of cases involving alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour laws has recently increased in the software industry. The outcome of these types of cases is highly fact specific and the law, particularly in California, is still evolving. Although there are no pending or threatened claims under wage and hour laws against us, we cannot assure you that claims under such laws or other employment-related laws will not be attempted in the future against us, nor can we predict the likely impact of any such claims on us, or that, if asserted, we would be able to successfully resolve any such claims without incurring significant expenses. We may be subject to the risk of loss due to fire because the materials we use in the manufacturing process of our inks are flammable. We use flammable materials in the manufacturing processes of our inks and may therefore be subject to the risk of loss arising from fires. The risk of fire associated with these materials cannot be completely eliminated. We own certain facilities that manufacture our inks, which increases our exposure to such risk in case these facilities are destroyed. We maintain insurance policies to reduce losses caused by fire, including business interruption insurance. If one or more of these facilities is damaged or otherwise ceases operations as a result of a fire, it would reduce manufacturing capacity and, consequently, may reduce revenues and adversely affect our business. The value of our investment portfolio is subject to interest rate volatility. We have an investment portfolio of mainly fixed income securities classified as available-for-sale securities. As a result, our investment portfolio is subject to volatility if market interest rates fluctuate. We attempt to limit this 22 Table of Contents exposure to interest rate risk by investing in securities with maturities of less than three years; however, we may be unable to successfully limit our risk to interest rate fluctuations and this may cause volatility in our investment portfolio value. Our stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2007, the price of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from a low of $20.56 to a high of $30.20. We expect our stock price to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; • our failure to meet analyst expectations; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • announcements relating to strategic relationships, acquisitions or investments; • announcements by our customers regarding their businesses or the products in which our products are included; • changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts; • changes in general economic conditions; • terrorist attacks and the effects of military engagements or natural disasters; • changes in the rating of our debentures or other securities; • changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other software and high-technology companies; • commencement of litigation or adverse results in pending litigation, including purported shareholder derivative suits related to our historical stock option practices; • commencement of possible SEC and regulatory actions regarding our historical stock option grant practices; and Because of this volatility, we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts from time-to-time and the trading prices of our securities could decline as a result. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the trading prices of equity securities of many high-technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Any negative change in the public’s perception of high-technology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our operating results. Our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and add volatility. Any repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and add volatility. There can be no assurance that the repurchases will be made at the best possible price. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, we are permitted to and could discontinue our stock repurchase program at any time and any such discontinuation could cause the market price of our stock to decline. For example, we suspended our stock repurchase program as the result of being unable to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. We resumed our stock repurchase program in October 2007. 23 Table of Contents Under regulations required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, an adverse opinion on internal controls over financial reporting could be issued by our auditors, and this could have a negative impact on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we establish and maintain an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and assess on an on-going basis the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Our auditors, an independent registered public accounting firm, are required to audit the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Although no known material weaknesses are believed to exist at this time, it is possible that material weaknesses could be identified. If we are unable to remediate the weaknesses, our management would be required to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective and our auditors would be required to issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. It is uncertain what impact such adverse conclusions would have on our stock price. In addition to their inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors, omissions, or fraud. A reduction in our net income as reported on our financial statements could increase the likelihood of identifying a material weakness in our internal controls. The threshold for determining whether or not we have a material weakness in our internal controls and procedures as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is, in part, based on our generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, net income. Lowered GAAP net income, with an associated lowered materiality threshold, may increase our risk of having to disclose control weaknesses. For example, continued acquisitions, and the associated amortization of intangibles, will increase our amortization expenses and in the future may lower our GAAP earnings which would result in a lower materiality threshold for internal control testing. A lower materiality threshold requires us to test more areas of the business. As the number of areas tested increases, the statistical chance of discovering a material weakness increases. Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. In June 2003, we issued $240 million in 1.50% convertible senior debentures due in 2023. During the period the debentures are outstanding, we will have debt service obligations on the debentures of approximately $3.6 million per year in interest payments, payable semi-annually. In addition, beginning June 1, 2008, we could be required to pay contingent interest of 0.35% if during any nine-month period from June 1 to November 30 and December 1 to May 31, the average market price of the debentures for the five trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the first day of the relevant nine-month period equals 120% or more of the principal amount of the debentures. Our debt service obligations related to the debentures include the following redemption and repurchase terms that could also affect our cash position: • On or after June 1, 2008, we may redeem the debentures for cash at any time as a whole, or from time to time in part, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debenture to be redeemed plus any accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any; • On June 1, 2008 a holder may require us to repurchase all or a portion of that holder’s debentures at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any, to, but not including, the date of repurchase in cash; and • A holder may require us to repurchase all or a portion of that holder’s debentures if a fundamental change, as defined in the indenture, occurs prior to June 1, 2008 at 100% of their principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, including contingent interest, if any to, but not including, the repurchase date. We may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash. If we issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from cash generated by our operations, if any, and from our existing cash and investments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and must instead use our existing cash or 24 Table of Contents investments, we may have to reduce, curtail or terminate other activities of our business. We may add lines of credit and obtain other long-term debt and mortgage financing to finance capital expenditures in the future. For example, if we exercise our option to redeem the $240 million in 1.50% convertible senior debentures or if the holders require us to repurchase all or a significant portion of the convertible senior debentures, we believe we may need to seek alternative sources of liquidity. This may include adding a line of credit and/or converting all or portions of our investment portfolio into cash. In either case, we would expect that our Other income would decline due to the impact of higher interest costs on any new debt or lower expected interest income earned on our investment portfolio. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, as we are required to make interest payments and maintain compliance with financial covenants contained in the debentures regardless of such external conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing due to covenants contained in the debentures and the existing leverage evidenced by the debentures; • require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry by restricting the funds available for use in addressing such changes; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less debt. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 