Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or continue an investment in the Company, investors should consider, among other factors, the following: Federal and State Government Regulations. The banking industry is heavily regulated. These regulations are intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. As discussed in this Form 10-K, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, and the SEC. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. In particular, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past, and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary polices of the Federal Reserve Board or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on the future business and earnings prospects of the Company. Legislation. Because of concerns relating to the competitiveness and the safety and soundness of the industry, Congress continues to consider a number of wide-ranging proposals for altering the structure, regulation, and competitive relationships of the nation’s financial institutions. Among such bills are proposals to combine banks and thrifts under a unified charter and to combine regulatory agencies. Management cannot predict whether or in what form any of these proposals will be adopted or the extent to which the business of the Company and its subsidiaries may be affected thereby. - 26 - Credit Risk. One of the greatest risks facing lenders is credit risk -- that is, the risk of losing principal and interest due to a borrower’s failure to perform according to the terms of a loan agreement. While management attempts to provide an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to cover probable incurred losses based on loan portfolio growth, past loss experience, general economic conditions, information about specific borrower situations, and other factors, future adjustments to reserves may become necessary, and net income could be significantly affected, if circumstances differ substantially from assumptions used with respect to such factors. Exposure to Local Economic Conditions. Company's primary market area for deposits and loans encompasses counties in southern Indiana, where all of its offices are located. Most of the Company's business activities are within this area. This concentration exposes the Company to risks resulting from changes in the local economy. An economic slowdown in these areas could have the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business: · Loan delinquencies may increase; · Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · Demand for the products and services of HomeFederal may decline; and · Collateral for loans made by HomeFederal, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans of HomeFederal. Interest Rate Risk. The Company's earnings depend to a great extent upon the level of net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans and investments and the interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rate risk is the risk that the earnings and capital will be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. While the Company attempts to adjust its asset/liability mix in order to limit the magnitude of interest rate risk, interest rate risk management is not an exact science. Rather, it involves estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact the yields earned on assets and the rates paid on liabilities. Moreover, rate changes can vary depending upon the level of rates and competitive factors. From time to time, maturities of assets and liabilities are not balanced, and a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on net interest margins and results of operations of the Company. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions. Competition. The Company faces strong competition from other banks, savings institutions and other financial institutions that have branch offices or otherwise operate in the Company’s market area, as well as many other companies now offering a range of financial services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and larger branch systems than the Company. In addition, many of HomeFederal’s competitors have higher legal lending limits than does HomeFederal. Particularly intense competition exists for sources of funds including savings and retail time deposits and for loans, deposits and other services that HomeFederal offers. As a result of the repeal of the Glass Steagall Act, which separated the commercial and investment banking industries, all banking organizations face increasing competition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 