Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or continue an investment in the Company, investors should consider, among other factors, the following: The Current Economic Environment Poses Challenges For Us and Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national conditions and local conditions in our markets. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or slow growth. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. We retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Our loan portfolio includes commercial real estate loans, residential mortgage loans, and construction and land development loans. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a possible national economic recession or further deterioration in local economic conditions in our markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and result in the following other consequences: increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for our products and services may decline; deposits may decrease, which would adversely impact our liquidity position; and collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. The Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Could Adversely Affect Us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations or earnings. Impact of Recent and Future Legislation. Congress and the Treasury Department have recently adopted legislation and taken actions to address the disruptions in the financial system and declines in the housing market. See “Regulation -- Recent Legislative Developments.” It is not clear at this time what impact the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (“EESA”), TARP, ARRA, other liquidity and funding initiatives of the Treasury and other bank regulatory agencies that have been previously announced, and any additional programs that may be initiated in the future, will have on the financial markets and the financial services industry. The actual impact that EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Finally, there can be no assurance regarding the specific impact that such measures may have on us—or whether (or to what extent) we will be able to benefit from such programs. In addition to the legislation mentioned above, federal and state governments could pass additional legislation responsive to current credit conditions. As an example, the Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, the Bank could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits its ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. Difficult Market Conditions Have Adversely Affected Our Industry. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and securities and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: · We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. · The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. · Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. · We may be required to pay significantly higher deposit insurance premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Current Levels of Market Volatility Are Unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital may be adversely affected which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial Problems at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Borrow Monies in the Future and Our Income. At December 31, 2008, the Bank owned $8.3 million of stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (“FHLBI”) and had outstanding borrowings of approximately $134.6 million from the FHLBI. The FHLBI stock entitles us to dividends from the FHLBI. The Company recognized dividend income of approximately $411,000 in 2008. Due to various financial difficulties in the financial institution industry in 2008, including the write-down of various mortgage-backed securities held by the FHLBI (which lowered its regulatory capital levels), the FHLBI temporarily suspended dividends during the 1st quarter of 2009. When the dividends were finally paid, they were reduced by 75 basis points from the dividend rate paid for the previous quarter. Continued and additional financial difficulties at the FHLBI could further reduce or eliminate the dividends we receive from the FHLBI. At December 31, 2008, the Bank’s total borrowing capacity from the FHLBI was $192.0 million. Generally, the loan terms from the FHLBI are better than the terms the Bank can receive from other sources making it cheaper to borrow money from the FHLBI. Continued and additional financial difficulties at the FHLBI could reduce or eliminate our additional borrowing capacity with the FHLBI which could force us to borrow money from other sources. Such other monies may not be available when we need them or, more likely, will be available at higher interest rates and on less advantageous terms, which will impact our net income and could impact our ability to grow. Additional Increases in Insurance Premiums. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insures the Bank’s deposits up to certain limits. The FDIC charges us premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. The Bank elected to participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, which will increase its insurance premiums by 85 basis points per annum with respect to the Bank’s deposits. Current economic conditions have increased as a result of bank failures. The FDIC takes control of failed banks and ensures payment of deposits up to insured limits using the resources of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The FDIC has designated the Deposit Insurance Fund long-term target reserve ratio at 1.25 percent of insured deposits. Due to recent bank failures, the FDIC insurance fund reserve ratio has fallen below 1.15 percent, the statutory minimum. At June 30, 2008, the ratio was 1.01%, 18 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The FDIC expects a higher ratio of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. The FDIC has developed a proposed restoration plan that will uniformly increase insurance assessments by 7 basis points (annualized) effective January 1, 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, the plan also has made changes to the deposit insurance assessment system requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share. See “Indiana Bank and Trust Company -- Deposit Insurance.” Our FDIC insurance premiums (including FICO assessments) were $286,000 in 2008, compared to $84,000 in 2007, and the Bank’s one-time assessment credit was used up in 2008. Without the credit, the insurance premiums in 2008 would have been $685,000. Due to the anticipated continued failures of unaffiliated FDIC-insured depository institutions, the increased premiums noted above, and the full utilization of the Bank’s one-time insurance assessment credit in 2008, we anticipate that our FDIC deposit insurance premiums will be higher in 2009 than in 2008 and could increase significantly in the future which would adversely impact our future earnings. Future Reduction in Liquidity in the Banking System. The Federal Reserve Bank has been providing vast amounts of liquidity in to the banking system to compensate for weaknesses in short-term borrowing markets and other capital markets. A reduction in the Federal Reserve’s activities or capacity could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs to the Bank or reducing the availability of funds to the Bank to finance its existing operations. Our Participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program May Adversely Affect the Value of Our Common Stock and the Rights of Our Common Stockholders. The terms of the preferred stock the Company issued under the TARP CPP could reduce investment returns to the Company’s common stockholders by restricting dividends, diluting existing shareholders’ ownership interests, and restricting capital management practices. Without the prior consent of the Treasury, the Company will be prohibited from increasing its common stock dividends or repurchasing shares of its common stock for the first three years while the Treasury holds the preferred stock. Also, the preferred stock requires quarterly dividends to be paid at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the stock is redeemed by the Company. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash the Company otherwise has available to pay dividends on its common stock and to use for general corporate purposes, including working capital. Finally, the Company will be prohibited from continuing to pay dividends on its common stock unless it has fully paid all required dividends on the preferred stock issued to the Treasury. Although the Company fully expects to be able to pay all required dividends on the preferred stock (and to continue to pay dividends on its common stock at current levels), there is no guarantee that it will be able to do so in the future. Concentrations of Real Estate Loans Could Subject the Company to Increased Risks in the Event of a Real Estate Recession or Natural Disaster. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real estate. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A further weakening of the real estate market in our primary market area could result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Historically, Indiana has experienced, on occasion, significant natural disasters, including tornadoes and floods. The availability of insurance for losses for such catastrophes is limited. Our operations could also be interrupted by such natural disasters. Acts of nature, including tornadoes and floods, which may cause uninsured damage and other loss of value to real estate that secures our loans or interruption in our business operations, may also negatively impact our operating results or financial condition. Federal and State Government Regulations Could Adversely Affect Us. The banking industry is heavily regulated. These regulations are intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. As discussed in this Form 10-K, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the FDIC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, and the SEC. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations puts banks at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors such as finance companies, mortgage banking companies and leasing companies. In particular, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past, and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary polices of the Federal Reserve Board or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on the future business and earnings prospects of the Company. Credit Risk Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results or Financial Condition. One of the greatest risks facing lenders is credit risk -- that is, the risk of losing principal and interest due to a borrower’s failure to perform according to the terms of a loan agreement. During 2007, the banking industry experienced increasing trends in problem assets and credit losses which resulted from weakening national economic trends and a decline in housing values. The Company’s home equity and home equity line of credit portfolios have experienced some increase in delinquency and foreclosures have occurred; driven primarily by mortgage foreclosures on loans serviced by non-company owned first mortgages. The potential for foreclosures instituted by outside servicers represents additional potential credit risk. While management attempts to provide an allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to cover probable incurred losses based on loan portfolio growth, past loss experience, general economic conditions, information about specific borrower situations, and other factors, future adjustments to reserves may become necessary, and net income could be significantly affected, if circumstances differ substantially from assumptions used with respect to such factors. Exposure to Local Economic Conditions Could Have an Adverse Impact on the Company. Company's primary market area for deposits and loans encompasses counties in central and southern Indiana, where all of its offices are located. Most of the Company's business activities are within this area. The Company has experienced growth of the commercial and commercial real estate portfolios, primarily in the Indianapolis market. This area of the Company’s market has experienced more difficulties in the residential and development areas than the rest of our market area. These concentrations expose the Company to risks resulting from changes in the local economies. Additionally, pressure has intensified on consumer budgets due to sharp increases in unemployment rates and property taxes in the Company’s market areas. An economic slowdown in these areas could have the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business: · Loan delinquencies may increase; · Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · Demand for the products and services of the Bank may decline; and · Collateral for loans made by the Bank, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans of the Bank. Interest Rate Risk Could Adversely Affect Our Operations. The Company's earnings depend to a great extent upon the level of net interest income, which is the difference between interest income earned on loans and investments and the interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. Interest rate risk is the risk that the earnings and capital will be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. While the Company attempts to adjust its asset/liability mix in order to limit the magnitude of interest rate risk, interest rate risk management is not an exact science. Rather, it involves estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact the yields earned on assets and the rates paid on liabilities. Moreover, rate changes can vary depending upon the level of rates and competitive factors. From time to time, maturities of assets and liabilities are not balanced, and a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on net interest margins and results of operations of the Company. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions. Competition Could Make it Harder for the Company to Achieve its Financial Goals. The Company faces strong competition from other banks, savings institutions and other financial institutions that have branch offices or otherwise operate in the Company’s market area, as well as many other companies now offering a range of financial services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and larger branch systems than the Company. In addition, many of the Bank’s competitors have higher legal lending limits than does the Bank. Particularly intense competition exists for sources of funds including savings and retail time deposits and for loans, deposits and other services that the Bank offers. As a result of the repeal of the Glass Steagall Act, which separated the commercial and investment banking industries, all banking organizations face increasing competition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable Item 