Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Abraxas may not be able to fund the substantial capital expenditures that will be required for it to increase reserves and production. Abraxas must make substantial capital expenditures to develop its existing reserves and to discover new reserves. Historically, Abraxas has financed its capital expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, sales of producing properties, and sales of debt and equity securities and expects to continue to do so in the future. Abraxas also anticipates receiving distributions of available cash from the Partnership. Abraxas cannot assure you that it will have sufficient capital resources in the future to finance all of its capital expenditures. Volatility in natural gas and crude oil prices, the timing of both Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s drilling programs and drilling results will affect both Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s cash flow from operations as well as distributions of available cash by the Partnership to Abraxas. Lower prices and/or lower production will also decrease revenues and cash flow, thus reducing the amount of financial resources available to meet both Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s capital requirements, including reducing the amount available to pursue our drilling opportunities. If our cash flow from operations does not increase as a result of planned capital expenditures, a greater percentage of our cash flow from operations will be required for debt service and operating expenses and our planned capital expenditures would, by necessity, be decreased. The borrowing bases under Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s credit facilities will be determined from time to time by the lenders. Reductions in estimates of natural gas and crude oil reserves could result in a reduction in the respective borrowing bases, which would reduce the amount of financial resources available under these facilities to meet our capital requirements. Such a reduction could be the result of lower commodity prices or production, inability to drill or unfavorable drilling results, changes in natural gas and crude oil reserve engineering, the lenders’ inability to agree to an adequate borrowing base or adverse changes in the lenders’ practices regarding estimation of reserves. If cash flow from operations or our borrowing bases decrease for any reason, both Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s ability to undertake exploration and development activities could be adversely affected. As a result, our ability to replace production may be limited. In addition, if the borrowing bases under Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s respective credit facilities are reduced, both Abraxas and the Partnership would be required to reduce their borrowings under their respective credit facilities so that such borrowings do not exceed such borrowing bases. This could further reduce the cash available to us for capital spending and, if either Abraxas or the Partnership did not have sufficient capital to reduce its respective borrowing level, Abraxas and/or the Partnership may be in default under their respective credit facilities. Abraxas has sold producing properties to provide it with liquidity and capital resources in the past and both Abraxas and the Partnership may do so in the future. After any such sale, we would expect to utilize the proceeds to drill new wells on our remaining properties. If we cannot replace the production lost from properties sold with production from the remaining properties, both Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s cash flow from operations, including distributions of available cash from the Partnership, will likely decrease which, in turn, would decrease the amount of cash available for additional capital spending. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves, in which case its results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our future natural gas and crude oil production, and therefore our success, is highly dependent upon our ability to find, acquire and develop additional reserves that are profitable to produce. The rate of production from our natural gas and crude oil properties and our proved reserves will decline as our reserves are produced. Unless we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful development and exploration activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, we cannot assure you that our exploration and development activities will result in increases in our proved reserves. Approximately 91% of the Partnership’s and 90% of Abraxas’, or 91% of the estimated ultimate recovery of our consolidated proved developed producing reserves as of 10 December 31, 2007, had been produced. Based on the reserve information set forth in our reserve report of December 31, 2007, Abraxas’ average annual estimated decline rate for its net proved developed producing reserves is 9% during the first five years, 6% in the next five years, and approximately 5% thereafter. Based on the reserve information set forth in our reserve report of December 31, 2007, the Partnership’s average annual estimated decline rate for its net proved developed producing reserves is 12% during the first five years, 9% in the next five years and approximately 9% thereafter. These rates of decline are estimates and actual production declines could be materially higher. While Abraxas has had some success in finding, acquiring and developing additional reserves, Abraxas has not been able to fully replace the production volumes lost from natural field declines and prior property sales. For example, in 2006, Abraxas replaced only 7% of the reserves it produced. In 2007, however, we replaced 219% of the reserves we produced. As our proved reserves, and consequently our production, decline, our cash flow from operations, the amount of cash distributions Abraxas receives from the Partnership and the amount that we are able to borrow under our credit facilities will also decline. In addition, approximately 69% of Abraxas’ and 50% of the Partnership’s total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2007 were undeveloped. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Even if we are successful in our development efforts, it could take several years for a significant portion of these undeveloped reserves to generate positive cash flow. A substantial portion of the Partnership’s production is currently concentrated in one well. Approximately 20% of our consolidated production (22% of the Partnership’s production) during 2007 was from a single well in west Texas, the La Escalera 1AH well, which is owned by the Partnership. This well represented approximately 1.0% of our proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2007 (3.75% of the Partnership’s proved developed reserves) and according to our reserve report is expected to be depleted in 2011. Like all natural gas wells, the rate of production from this well will decline over time and the reserves associated with this well will also decrease. If production from this well decreases, and if we are unable to reduce the percentage of our production represented by this well, it would have a material adverse effect on our revenues, cash flow from operations and financial condition and on the distributions of available cash Abraxas receives from the Partnership. We may not find any commercially productive natural gas or crude oil reservoirs. We cannot assure you that the new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our capital investment. Drilling for natural gas and crude oil may be unprofitable. Dry holes and wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after drilling, operating and other costs are unprofitable. The inherent risk of not finding commercially productive reservoirs will be compounded by the fact that 69% of Abraxas and 50% of the Partnership’s, or 56% of our consolidated total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2007, were undeveloped. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. In addition, our properties may be susceptible to drainage from production by other operations on adjacent properties. If the volume of natural gas and crude oil we produce decreases, our cash flow from operations and the amount of any distributions that Abraxas may receive from the Partnership will decrease. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • facility or equipment failure or accidents; • shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, equipment and crews; • adverse weather conditions; • compliance with environmental and governmental rules and regulations; • title problems; • unusual or unexpected geological formations; • pipeline ruptures; 11 • fires, blowouts, craterings and explosions; and • uncontrollable flows of oil or gas or well fluids. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Abraxas’ credit facility and the Partnership’s credit facility contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, limit both Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred stock or redeemable stock; • transfer or sell assets; • create liens on assets; • pay dividends or make other distributions on capital stock or make other restricted payments, including repurchasing, redeeming or retiring capital stock or subordinated debt or making certain investments or acquisitions; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • guarantee other indebtedness; • make any change in the principal nature of our business; • permit a change of control; or • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Abraxas and our restricted subsidiaries. In addition, both Abraxas’ credit facility and the Partnership’s credit facility require each of them to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Both Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be adversely affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that either Abraxas or the Partnership will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit both Abraxas’ and the Partnership’s ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary or desirable corporate activities. A breach of any of these covenants or either Abraxas’ or the Partnership’s inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under Abraxas’ new credit facility and/or the Partnership’s credit facility. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable or favorable to us. The marketability of our production depends largely upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The marketability of our production depends in part upon processing and transportation facilities. Transportation space on such gathering systems and pipelines is occasionally limited and at times unavailable due to repairs or improvements being made to such facilities or due to such space being utilized by other companies with priority transportation agreements. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. Federal and state regulation of natural gas and crude oil production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. These factors and the availability of 12 markets are beyond our control. If market factors dramatically change, the financial impact on us could be substantial and adversely affect our ability to produce and market natural gas and crude oil. Hedging transactions have in the past and may in the future impact our cash flow from operations. Both Abraxas and the Partnership enter into hedging arrangements from time to time to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil prices and to achieve more predictable cash flow. In 2005, we incurred realized and unrealized hedging losses of $139,000 and $452,000, respectively, resulting from the price floors we established. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we had realized and unrealized hedging gains of $565,000 and $81,000 respectively, and in 2007, we realized a gain of $1.9 million and incurred an unrealized loss of $6.3 million on hedges in place at December 31, 2007. Under the terms of the Partnership Credit Facility, Abraxas Energy Partners was required to enter into hedging arrangements for specified volumes, which equated to approximately 85% of the estimated oil and gas production through December 31, 2011 from its net proved developed producing reserves. Abraxas Energy Partners has entered into NYMEX–based fixed price commodity swaps at then current market prices. The following table sets forth our hedge position at March 10, 2008: Period Covered Hedged Product Hedged Volume (Production per day) Weighted Average Fixed Price Year 2008 Natural Gas 11,840 Mmbtu $8.44 Year 2008 Crude Oil 1,105 Bbl $84.84 Year 2009 Natural Gas 10,595 Mmbtu $8.45 Year 2009 Crude Oil 1,000 Bbl $83.80 Year 2010 Natural Gas 9,130 Mmbtu $8.22 Year 2010 Crude Oil 895 Bbl $83.26 Year 2011 Natural Gas 8,010 Mmbtu $8.10 Year 2011 Crude Oil 810 Bbl $86.45 We cannot assure you that the hedging transactions we have entered into, or will enter into, will adequately protect us from financial loss in the future due to circumstances such as: • highly volatile natural gas and crude oil prices; • our production being less than expected; or • a counterparty to one of our hedging transactions defaulting on its contractual obligations. Lower natural gas and crude oil prices increase the risk of ceiling limitation write downs. We use the full cost method to account for our natural gas and crude oil operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop natural gas and crude oil properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized cost of natural gas and crude oil properties may not exceed a “ceiling limit” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10%. If net capitalized costs of natural gas and crude oil properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a “ceiling limitation write-down.” This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce our stockholders’ equity and earnings. The risk that we will be required to write-down the carrying value of natural gas and crude oil properties increases when natural gas and crude oil prices are low. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. An expense recorded in one period may not be reversed in a subsequent period even though higher natural gas and crude oil prices may have increased the ceiling applicable to the subsequent period. 13 Use of our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. At December 31, 2007, we had, subject to the limitation discussed below, $178.1 million of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. tax purposes. These loss carryforwards will expire through 2027 if not utilized. In addition, as to a portion of the U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, the amount of such carryforwards that we can use annually is limited under U.S. tax law. Moreover, uncertainties exist as to the future utilization of the operating loss carryforwards under the criteria set forth under FASB Statement No. 109. Therefore, we have established a valuation allowance of $66.9 for deferred tax assets at December 31, 2005 and 2006 and $47.2 million at December 31, 2007. We depend on our Chairman, President and CEO and the loss of his services could have an adverse effect on our operations. We depend to a large extent on Robert L. G. Watson, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, for our management and business and financial contacts. Mr. Watson may terminate his employment agreement with us at any time on 30 days notice, but, if he terminates without cause, he would not be entitled to the severance benefits provided under the terms of that agreement. Mr. Watson is not precluded from working for, with or on behalf of a competitor upon termination of his employment with us. If Mr. Watson were no longer able or willing to act as our Chairman, the loss of his services could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, in connection with the initial public offering by our previously wholly-owned subsidiary, Grey Wolf Exploration Inc., we, Grey Wolf and Mr. Watson agreed that Mr. Watson would continue to serve as our Chief Executive Officer and President and as the Chief Executive Officer for Grey Wolf, with Mr. Watson devoting two-thirds of his time to his positions and duties with us and one-third of his time to his position and duties with Grey Wolf. In consideration for receiving Mr. Watson’s services, Grey Wolf makes an annual payment to Abraxas of US$100,000 and reimburses Abraxas for Mr. Watson’s expenses incurred in connection with providing such services. Risks Related to Abraxas’ Ownership of General Partner Units and Common Units of the Partnership The Partnership may not have sufficient cash flow from operations to pay the quarterly distributions on the general partner units and common units following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. Under the terms of the Partnership’s partnership agreement, the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution will be reduced by the Partnership’s operating expenses and the amount of any cash reserve amounts that its general partner establishes to provide for future operations, future capital expenditures, future debt service requirements and future cash distributions to its unitholders, including Abraxas. The Partnership has informed Abraxas that the Partnership intends to reserve a substantial portion of its cash generated from operations to develop its natural gas and crude oil properties and to acquire additional natural gas and crude oil properties in order to maintain and grow the Partnership’s level of natural gas and crude oil reserves. The amount of cash the Partnership actually generates will depend upon numerous factors related to its business that may be beyond its control, including among other things: • the amount of natural gas and crude oil it produces; • demand for and price of natural gas and crude oil; • continued drilling and development of natural gas and crude oil wells; • the level of the Partnership’s operating costs, including reimbursement of expenses to its general partner; • prevailing economic conditions; and • government regulation and taxation. 14 In addition, the actual amount of cash that the Partnership will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the level of its capital expenditures; • its ability to make borrowings under its credit facility to pay distributions; • sources of cash used to fund acquisitions; • debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in its credit facility or future debt agreements; • fluctuations in its working capital needs; • general and administrative expenses; • cash settlement of hedging positions; • timing and collectibility of receivables; and • the amount of cash reserves, which the Partnership expects to be substantial, established by its general partner for the proper conduct of its business. The Partnership is unlikely to be able to sustain its expected level of distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow its asset base. If the Partnership does not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient cash expenditures to maintain its asset base, it will be unable to pay distributions at the expected level from cash generated from operations and would likely reduce distributions. The Partnership is unlikely to be able to sustain its expected level of distributions without making accretive acquisitions or capital expenditures that maintain or grow its asset base. The Partnership will need to make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and grow its asset base, which will reduce cash available for distributions. Because the timing and amount of these capital expenditures fluctuate each quarter, the Partnership expects to reserve substantial amounts of cash each quarter to finance these expenditures over time. The Partnership may use the reserved cash to reduce indebtedness until it makes the capital expenditures. Over a longer period of time, if the Partnership does not set aside sufficient cash reserves or make sufficient expenditures to maintain its asset base, it will be unable to pay distributions at the expected level from cash generated from operations and would therefore expect to reduce cash distributions. If the Partnership does not make sufficient growth capital expenditures, it will be unable to sustain its business operations and therefore will be unable to maintain its proposed or current level of distributions and its business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. To fund its capital expenditures, the Partnership will be required to use cash generated from operations, additional borrowings or the issuance of additional partnership interests, or some combination thereof. Use of cash generated from operations by the Partnership will reduce cash available for distribution to Abraxas as a unitholder. The Partnership’s ability to borrow from its credit facility or to obtain additional bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by its financial condition at the time of any such borrowing, financing or offering and the covenants in its then-existing debt agreements, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions, operations and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond the Partnership’s control. The Partnership’s failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. Even if the Partnership is successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit its ability to pay distributions to unitholders, including Abraxas. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase the Partnership’s interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional partnership interests may result in significant unitholder dilution thereby increasing the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership’s ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. 15 The Partnership intends to make acquisitions of natural gas and crude oil properties to grow its asset base. Properties that the Partnership acquires may not produce as projected and it may be unable to determine reserve potential, identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against such liabilities, which could adversely affect its cash available for distribution. Part of the Partnership’s business strategy is to make accretive acquisitions of natural gas and crude oil properties. Any future acquisition will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future commodity prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards, potential tax and ERISA liabilities, and other liabilities and similar factors. Ordinarily, review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties and are inherently incomplete because it generally is not feasible to review in depth every individual property involved in each acquisition. Even a detailed due diligence review may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and potential. Inspections may not always be performed on every well, and potential problems, such as ground water contamination and other environmental conditions and deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and the Partnership’s ability to make cash distributions to its unitholders, including Abraxas. Additional potential risks related to acquisitions include, among other things: • incorrect assumptions regarding the future prices of oil and gas or the future operating or development costs of properties acquired; • incorrect estimates of the oil and gas reserves attributable to a property acquired; • unpredictable production profiles and decline rates of properties acquired; • an inability to integrate successfully the properties acquired; • the assumption of liabilities; • limitations on rights to be indemnified by the seller; • the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and • losses of key operational employees at the acquired properties. There may be conflicts of interest between Abraxas and the Partnership which could be detrimental to Abraxas. Abraxas owns and controls the general partner of the Partnership and some of Abraxas’ directors and officers are directors and executive officers of the Partnership. Conflicts of interest exist and may arise between Abraxas and the Partnership. For example, the Partnership could acquire, develop or dispose of producing properties without any obligation to offer Abraxas the opportunity to purchase or develop any of the assets. In addition, it is currently anticipated that the executive officers of the general partner, who are officers of Abraxas, will devote between 30% and 60% of their time to the Partnership’s business. The general partner of the Partnership, which is wholly- owned by Abraxas, may be removed as general partner with the consent of unitholders owning at least 662/3% of the common units, including units beneficially owned by Abraxas. Holders of the common units of the Partnership are currently unable to remove the general partner without its consent because Abraxas beneficially owns sufficient units to be able to prevent the removal of the general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. If Abraxas beneficial ownership decreases below 33 1/3 %, its subsidiary could be removed as the general partner which would result in Abraxas no longer controlling the business of the Partnership. 16 Risks Related to Our Industry Market conditions for natural gas and crude oil, and particularly volatility of prices for natural gas and crude oil, could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows, profitability and growth. Our revenue, cash flows, profitability and future rate of growth depend substantially upon prevailing prices for natural gas and crude oil. Natural gas prices affect us more than crude oil prices because 82% of our production and reserves were natural gas at December 31, 2007 (68% following the acquisitions completed in January 2008). Prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Lower prices may also make it uneconomical for us to increase or even continue current production levels of natural gas and crude oil. Prices for natural gas and crude oil are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil, market uncertainty and a variety of other factors beyond our control, including: • changes in foreign and domestic supply and demand for natural gas and crude oil; • political stability and economic conditions in oil producing countries, particularly in the Middle East; • general economic conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulation; and • the price and availability of alternative fuel sources. In addition to decreasing our revenue and cash flow from operations, low or declining natural gas and crude oil prices could have additional material adverse effects on us, such as: • reducing the overall volume of natural gas and crude oil that we can produce economically, thereby adversely affecting our revenue, profitability and cash flow and our ability to perform our obligations with respect to the notes; • reducing our borrowing base under the credit facility; and • impairing our borrowing capacity and our ability to obtain equity capital. Estimates of our proved reserves and future net revenue are inherently imprecise. The process of estimating natural gas and crude oil reserves is complex involving decisions and assumptions in evaluating the available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. Accordingly, these estimates are imprecise. Actual future production, natural gas and crude oil prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas and crude oil reserves most likely will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves set forth in this report. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and crude oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The estimates of our reserves are based upon various assumptions about future production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be correct over time. In particular, estimates of natural gas and crude oil reserves, future net revenue from proved reserves and the PV-10 thereof for our natural gas and crude oil properties are based on the assumption that future natural gas and crude oil prices remain the same as natural gas and crude oil prices at December 31, 2007. The sales prices as of such date used for purposes of such estimates were $6.33 per Mcf of natural gas and $87.30 per Bbl of crude oil. This compares with $5.83 per Mcf of natural gas and $56.42 per Bbl of crude oil as of December 31, 2006. These estimates also assume that Abraxas and the Partnership will make future capital expenditures of approximately $111.3 million in the aggregate through 2012, which are necessary to develop and realize the value of proved undeveloped reserves on our properties. In addition, approximately 56% of our total estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2007 were undeveloped. By their nature, estimates of undeveloped reserves are less certain than proved developed reserves. Any significant variance in actual results from these assumptions could also materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves set forth in this report. 17 The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated reserves. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As required by SEC regulations, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of the estimate. However, actual future net cash flows from our properties will be affected by factors such as: • supply of and demand for oil and gas; • actual prices we receive for oil and gas; • our actual operating costs; • the amount and timing of our capital expenditures; • the amount and timing of actual production; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of our properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flow, which is required by the SEC, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and gas industry in general. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to the numerous risks of natural gas and crude oil drilling and production activities. Our natural gas and crude oil drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include the risk of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards. Environmental hazards include oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. In addition, title problems, weather conditions and mechanical difficulties or shortages or delays in delivery of drilling rigs and other equipment could negatively affect our operations. If any of these or other similar industry operating risks occur, we could have substantial losses. Substantial losses also may result from injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities. Also, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance at premium levels that justify its purchase. We operate in a highly competitive industry which may adversely affect our operations. We operate in a highly competitive environment. The principal resources necessary for the exploration and production of natural gas and crude oil are leasehold prospects under which natural gas and crude oil reserves may be discovered, drilling rigs and related equipment to explore for such reserves and knowledgeable personnel to conduct all phases of natural gas and crude oil operations. We must compete for such resources with both major natural gas and crude oil companies and independent operators. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours. Although we believe our current operating and financial resources are adequate to preclude any significant disruption of our operations in the immediate future, we cannot assure you that such materials and resources will be available to us. 18 The unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, insurance, personnel and crude oil field services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans on a timely basis and within our budget. Our industry is cyclical and, from time to time, there is a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, insurance or qualified personnel. During these periods, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies are substantially greater. In addition, the demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews rise as the number of active rigs in service increases. As a result of increasing levels of exploration and production in response to strong prices of natural gas and crude oil, the demand for oilfield services has risen and the costs of these services are increasing. Our natural gas and crude oil operations are subject to various Federal, state and local regulations that materially affect our operations. Matters regulated include permits for drilling operations, drilling and abandonment bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells and unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. At various times, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production. In order to conserve supplies of natural gas and crude oil, these agencies have restricted the rates of flow of natural gas and crude oil wells below actual production capacity. Federal, state and local laws regulate production, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of natural gas and crude oil, by-products from natural gas and crude oil and other substances and materials produced or used in connection with natural gas and crude oil operations. To date, our expenditures related to complying with these laws and for remediation of existing environmental contamination have not been significant. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. However, the requirements of such laws and regulations are frequently changed. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. Risks Related to the Common Stock Abraxas does not pay dividends on common stock. Abraxas has never paid a cash dividend on its common stock and the terms of Abraxas’ credit facility limit its ability to pay dividends on Abraxas’ common stock. Shares eligible for future sale may depress our stock price. At March 10, 2008, Abraxas had 49,038,949 shares of common stock outstanding of which 4,080,727 shares were held by affiliates and, in addition, 2,527,699 shares of common stock were subject to outstanding options granted under certain stock option plans (of which 1,872,866 shares were vested at March 10, 2008). All of the shares of common stock held by affiliates are restricted or controlled securities under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). The shares of the common stock issuable upon exercise of the stock options have been registered under the Securities Act. Sales of shares of common stock under Rule 144 or another exemption under the Securities Act or pursuant to a registration statement could have a material adverse effect on the price of the common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. The price of Abraxas common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate substantially. The Abraxas common stock is traded on The American Stock Exchange. The market price of the common stock has been volatile and could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors, including the following: • fluctuations in commodity prices; • variations in results of operations; 19 • legislative or regulatory changes; • general trends in the industry; • market conditions; and • analysts’ estimates and other events in the natural gas and crude oil industry. Abraxas may issue shares of preferred stock with greater rights than the common stock. Subject to the rules of The American Stock Exchange, Abraxas’ articles of incorporation authorize its board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from holders of the common stock. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of the common stock in terms of dividends, priority and liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than the common stock. Anti takeover provisions could make a third party acquisition of Abraxas difficult. Abraxas’ articles of incorporation and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, with each member serving a three-year term, and eliminate the ability of stockholders to call special meetings or take action by written consent. Each of the provisions in the articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Abraxas without the approval of its board. In addition, the Nevada corporate statute also contains certain provisions that could make an acquisition by a third party more difficult. An active market may not develop for the common stock. The Abraxas common stock is quoted on The American Stock Exchange. While there is currently one specialist in the common stock, this specialist is not obligated to continue to make a market in the common stock. In this event, the liquidity of the common stock could be adversely impacted and a stockholder could have difficulty obtaining accurate stock quotes. Future issuance of additional shares of common stock could cause dilution of ownership interests and adversely affect the stock price. Abraxas is currently authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of common stock with such rights as determined by our board of directors. Abraxas may in the future issue its previously authorized and unissued securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of current stockholders. In addition, under the terms of the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement entered into in connection with the transactions completed in May 2007, Abraxas may be required to issue additional shares of common stock. Under the terms of this agreement, in the event that the Partnership has not consummated its initial public offering by November 15, 2008, which we refer to as the Trigger Date, the investors will have the right to convert their common units obtained in the private placement offering into shares of common stock. Each common unit will be convertible into a number of shares of common stock equal to $16.66 divided by the volume weighted average price of the common stock for the ten (10) business day period immediately prior to the first business day following the Trigger Date times 0.9. If stockholder approval is required for such issuance, Abraxas has agreed to call a special meeting of the stockholders within 60 days of November 15, 2008, which we refer to as the Exchange Filing Date, and the executive officers and directors of Abraxas have agreed to vote the shares of common stock then held by them in favor of such issuance. Under this agreement, Abraxas also agreed within 30 days of the Trigger Date, to prepare and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement, which we refer to as the Exchange Registration Statement, to enable the resale of the common stock, which we refer to as the Exchange Shares, by the investors or their transferees from time to time over any national stock exchange on which the common stock is then traded, or in privately-negotiated transactions. If the Exchange Registration Statement is not declared effective by the 120th day following the Trigger Date (which period would be extended to the 180th day following the Trigger Date under certain circumstances), then in addition to any other rights the investors may have under the Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement or under applicable law, Abraxas is required to pay an amount in cash as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, equal to 1.0% of the product of $3.83 times the number of Exchange Shares then held by such investor for each 30-day period until the Exchange Registration Statement is declared effective. The potential issuance of such additional 20 shares of common stock may create downward pressure on the trading price of the common stock. Abraxas may also issue additional shares of common stock or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common stock for capital raising or other business purposes. Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of the common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 