ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks and other information in this Annual Report, including the financial statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION We currently have revenues, but we are not profitable. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company had coal sales of approximately $13.9 million and a net loss of approximately $23.5 million. There can be no assurance that the Company will have a gain from operations or net income in fiscal 2012 or thereafter. 10 We have a significant amount of debt which we must repay. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $21 million in short-term debt and a working capital deficit of approximately $28 million. Details regarding our debit are in the notes to our financial statements included in Item 8 hereunder and are important to an understanding of the risk we face in connection with repaying our debt. In particular, such debt is detailed in Note 5 to financial statements included in Item 8 hereunder. The short-term is listed as such because it either is due on demand, is currently due but has not yet been paid or because it matures during the current year. As of the date of this Report, the Company owed approximately $3 million to Zions Bank (which may be in technical default, though we have received no notice of default in this regard), its primary secured creditor and approximately $2 million to general and priority unsecured creditors pursuant to the Plan. The Company is in actual or technical default with respect to this $7 million of debt owed to its creditors. In addition, the Company has approximately $15.6 million in debt to shareholders and approximately $100 thousand in unsecured bridge loans from third parties. If any of these loans go into default and/or are accelerated, the Company would not have adequate funds to repay the loans, and the Company’s business may be adversely affected. In the event that any of the loans listed in our financial statements are accelerated or a loan holder claims a loan due and payable immediately, we currently would be unable to pay the amounts due in full and our ability to continue business would be adversely effected. We need additional capital in 2012 to implement our business plan and meet our financial obligations. Due to delinquency of payments to certain creditors by our Company in late 2009 and through the date of this Report, certain debts to both related and third parties are in default. As a result, a total of approximately $5.2 million associated with Hidden Splendor's Bankruptcy Plan of Reorganization (as defined in and discussed in the Section titled “Business - Hidden Splendor Bankruptcy & Plan of Reorganization”) is in default and due upon demand, of which approximately $4.7 million was previously scheduled to mature subsequent to 2011. The Company is working to remedy these defaults and, as of the date of this Report, no creditors have filed a default under the Plan with the bankruptcy court. The Company has not received a notice of default of any of the aforementioned debt as of the date hereof. We also have accrued unpaid federal and state taxes and royalties of approximately $1 million related to 2009 and 2010. Should the Company receive a notice of default and demand for immediate payment on any of the aforementioned debts, we will likely be required to raise up to a total of approximately $25 million. Assuming that our debt that is in default is not accelerated, and that other debt doesn’t go into default and become accelerated, we believe that we will need to raise a minimum amount of $3 million equity capital to fund operations and our plan to expand operations for the balance of calendar 2012. As the Company has no debt or equity funding commitments, we will need to rely upon best efforts financings. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in raising the required capital. The failure to raise sufficient capital through future debt or equity financings or otherwise will likely cause the Company to curtail operations, sell assets, or result in the failure of our business. If our debt obligations are accelerated for default or if we do not raise sufficient capital to cover our debt obligations, we will need to raise additional capital. Assuming our creditors do not accelerate the payment of our debt obligations currently in default and we are able to get current on our debt payments, we believe raising at least $34 million in equity financing, together with projected revenues based on assumption of the rampup of our second continuous miner, will be sufficient to fund working capital requirements and the company’s expansion plans to acquire and deploy a third continuous miner and the supporting equipment necessary to achieve positive cashflow operations going forward. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising the necessary capital or production will escalate as planned. The failure to raise needed funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects, could cause us to curtail operations. Long-Term Financial Obligations of Plan of Reorganization. Due to the defaults on loans as mentioned above, the amounts due under the Plan may be accelerated. Additionally, the Company is required to make capital expenditures and make timely monthly and quarterly payments. The failure to comply with the terms of the Plan could result in the liquidation of the Horizon Mine, the only revenue generating asset of America West, likely resulting in the Company ceasing operations. 11 We will not establish a reserve or sinking fund for the payment of creditors under Hidden Splendor's Plan. The Company is relying on cash flow from operations and efforts to obtain financing to fund Hidden Splendor's payment obligations under the Plan. As of the date of this Report, the outstanding balance is approximately $4.2 million. We have not established a reserve or sinking fund in the event we cannot generate sufficient cash flow to make such payments. Our secured creditors will maintain a lien on the Horizon Mine until payment in full. Moreover, if we fail to make payments to our creditors under the Plan, then (i) 100% of all allowed claims of general unsecured creditors shall be immediately due and accelerated and (ii) the assets of Hidden Splendor, including the Horizon Mine, which is the Company's primary asset, as of the date of this Report must be listed for sale. This would likely result in the Company ceasing operations. As stated above, the Company is currently in default with certain creditors under the Plan. The Company is working to remedy these defaults. As of the date of this Report, no creditors have filed notices of default under the Plan with the bankruptcy court. Our business requires substantial capital investment and maintenance expenditures, which we may be unable to provide. Our business strategy will require additional substantial capital investment in future periods. We require capital in 2012 through best efforts financings for, among other purposes, reducing debt, acquiring new supplies and equipment, acquiring additional reserves maintaining the condition of our existing equipment and maintaining compliance with environmental laws and regulations. However, best efforts financings may not be available or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. Future debt financing, if available, may result in increased interest and amortization expense and increased leverage. In addition, future debt financing may limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and render us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If we fail to obtain required capital in 2012, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, and/or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, or our business may fail. The Company's financial statements have been prepared assuming that it will continue as a going concern. The Company incurred a net loss of approximately $23.5 million, of which approximately $15 million was attributed to non-cash charges, and had a working capital deficit of $28 million for the year ended and as of December 31, 2011. These conditions raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. The Company has based certain financial assumptions on projected coal prices and volume of production. The Company believes that it will be able to fund any remaining Plan payments and nominal working capital needs based upon cash flow from operations, assuming the necessary capital can be raised to achieve cash positive operations. This assumption is based upon (i) increased coal production from deploying second and third mining units, and (ii) estimated sales prices in the future will approximate current sales prices. Increased coal production is contingent upon (i) the continued ramp up of our second continuous miner, and (ii) the Company successfully closing a financing to acquire a third continuous miner and the supporting equipment. Regarding sales prices, we have signed multi-year coal sales agreements with customers to partially mitigate risk on future coal prices. However, while the coal sales agreements will account for most of our production over the next several years, there still may be some production that will be sold at future market sales prices. Market sales prices of are out of our control and cannot be assured. The failure of either of these assumptions to materialize may cause us to require more capital in the future to fund obligations. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in raising additional capital. The failure to raise additional capital may cause the Company to curtail operations, sell assets, or result in the failure of our business. We have granted certain lenders a security interest in substantially all of our assets and our subsidiaries’ assets, and if we default under the applicable loan documents, the lenders may foreclose on our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries. We have secured amounts owing to certain lenders with substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets. If we default under the terms of the applicable loan documents, the lenders have the right to accelerate the indebtedness and foreclose upon and sell substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ assets to repay the indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and likely resulting in the curtailment of our business. Our debt instruments may adversely affect our ability to run our business. Our substantial amount of debt and the debt of our subsidiaries, as well as the guarantees of our subsidiaries and the grant of security interests in our assets and those of our subsidiaries, could impair our ability to operate our business effectively and may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities. For example, our indebtedness may: 12 § limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to obtain other financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes; § limit our ability to dispose of our assets, create liens on our assets or to extend credit; § make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; § limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry; § place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors with less debt; and § restrict our ability to merge or consolidate with another entity. If compliance with our debt obligations materially hinders our ability to operate our business and adapt to changing industry conditions, our operating results may suffer. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Significant competition from entities with greater resources could result in our failure. We operate in a highly competitive industry with national and international energy resources companies. We face substantial competition in connection with the marketing and sale of our coal. Most of our competitors are well established, have greater financial and marketing, personnel, other resources, and have been in business for longer periods of time than we have. Indeed, in the State of Utah, we are likely currently the smallest producer of coal in terms of production, reserves and available capital resources. Though the Company believes its plan of deploying additional equipment will change this, there is no assurance that we can maintain or expand our market share. The greater financial resources of such competitors will permit them to implement extensive marketing and production programs. Our competitors' use of their substantially greater resources could overwhelm our efforts to operate successfully and could cause our failure. There is no assurance that our limited revenues will be sufficient to operate profitably, or that we will generate greater revenues in the future. Hidden Splendor acquired the Horizon Mine in March 2003. While our management team is seasoned and we have very strong industry experience, the Company is a relatively new entrant in the coal industry in the western United States. We began mining operations in 2003. We have not been profitable and have a limited operating history. We have spent the majority of that time developing the mine for greater future production. We should be regarded as a risky venture with all of the unforeseen costs, expenses, problems, risks and difficulties to which such ventures are subject. Our coal sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 were approximately $13.9 million, and for the year ended December 31, 2010 were approximately $10.0 million. Though we have secured several multi-year take or pay coal sales contracts, there is no assurance that we can achieve greater sales or generate profitable sales. We expect that many coal producers can and will produce and sell coal at cheaper prices per ton than our production cost rates. Their production and sales could adversely affect our revenues and profits, if any. There is no assurance that we will ever operate profitably. There is no assurance that we will generate continued revenues or ever be profitable. Our future success depends upon our ability to acquire and develop coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Our recoverable reserves will decline as we produce coal. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities and acquiring properties containing economically recoverable coal deposits. Our current strategy includes increasing our coal deposits base through acquisitions of other mineral rights, leases or producing properties, and continuing to use our existing property and the adjacent unleased reserves. Our planned development and exploration projects and acquisition activities may not result in the acquisition of additional coal deposits and we may not have continuing success developing additional mines. In order to develop coal deposits, we must obtain various governmental leases and permits. We cannot predict whether we will obtain the leases and permits necessary for us to operate profitably in the future when the existing coal reserves are depleted. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our coal deposits at our current operations. 13 Our operations could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain required bonds. Federal and state laws require bonds or cash deposits to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to secure coal lease obligations and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. During 2010 and 2011, our reclamation bond obligation with the State of Utah totaled $445,000 and was met by transfer of the trust deed to real property owned by certain affiliates of the Company and pledged to secure the Company's obligation. The trust deed is in favor of the State of Utah and secures Hidden Splendor's reclamation obligation in the event the Company is unable to pay the costs associated with reclaiming the Horizon Mine site when it is closed. At the end of 2010, our coal lease bond obligation to the Bureau of Land Management in connection with our federal coal lease totaled $136,000 and was covered by a bond purchased by the Company which is secured by an irrevocable bank letter of credit, which in turn is secured by personal assets pledged by an officer of the Company. On March 2, 2011, the BLM increased our coal lease bond obligation by $264,000, making the total obligation on that bond $400,000 which we secured by depositing sufficient cash with the BLM. Our bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis if they are not posted with cash. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, bonds that are required by state and federal law would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including: the lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future bonds issuers under the terms of our indenture or new credit facility; and the exercise by third-party bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the bonds. There may be delays in our production, resulting in poor profitability and cash flow, thus preventing us from meeting our financial obligations. The Horizon Mine has experienced delays in production off and on in previous years and during 2010 and 2011 due to: · occasionally encountering rock faults, water, varying geological conditions of the coal seam, and other challenging mining conditions; · the breakdown of older mining equipment; · the need to address safety regulations and/or safety-related citations issued by governmental agencies; and · idling the mine due to expiration of previous short term sales contracts Many of the aforementioned challenges are beyond our control and/or are unpredictable. If we encounter any or a combination of the aforementioned challenges for a prolonged period of time, our revenues and cash flow will likely decrease, resulting in the inability to meet some or all of our financial obligations and could cause us to curtail operations. A significant extended decline in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our results of operations are highly dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal, which are closely linked to consumption patterns of electric generation. We have attempted to mitigate risk associated with uncertainty of coal prices by signing multi-year, take or pay sales contracts, extending out as far as five years. Nevertheless, extended or substantial price declines for coal would adversely affect our operating results for future periods and our ability to generate cash flows necessary to improve productivity and expand operations. Prices of coal may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control such as overall domestic and global economic conditions; the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential users; technological advances affecting energy consumption; domestic and foreign government regulations; price and availability of alternative fuels; price of foreign imports and weather conditions. Any adverse change in these factors could result in weaker demand and possibly lower prices for our production, which would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial condition. We have limited resources, and there is no assurance we can comply with the terms of our new coal sales agreements. During 2010, we entered into four coal sales contracts, under which we are obligated to deliver coal from our Horizon Mine over the next one to five years. These agreements include specific delivery and quantity requirements. Due to our limited resources, and in the event we are unable to raise sufficient capital to purchase additional equipment, we may be unable to fulfill the requirements under these new agreements. If any of our new customers do not engage in take or pay sales contracts and reduce the quantities of coal it purchases from us or otherwise terminates the coal sales agreements for cause, and if we are unable to sell our coal to our other customers on terms substantially similar to the terms, our business and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 We have a concentration of sales to four customers. During 2011, we sold the majority of our coal to four customers. During 2012, we expect to continue to sell our coal to a limited number of customers. If the customers who are not committed to take or pay contracts were to significantly reduce their purchase of coal from us, or if we were unable to continue to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. Also, under some of our contracts our customers have the right to reject coal we deliver, and some cases even terminate the contract, if the coal we deliver does not meet quality specifications set forth the contract. There is no assurance that we will find purchasers for our product at profitable prices. If we are unable to find buyers willing to purchase our coal at profitable prices for the excess coal expected from longwall production or when the current sales contracts end, our revenues would suffer. Our inability to diversify our operations may subject us to economic fluctuations within our industry. Our limited financial resources reduce the likelihood that we will be able to diversify our operations. Our inability to diversify our activities into the operation of more than one coal mine will subject our single-mine operation to economic fluctuations within the coal industry and, therefore, increase the risks associated with our operations. Disruption of rail, trucking, or other systems that deliver our coal or an increase in transportation costs could make our coal less competitive. Coal producers depend upon rail, trucking, or other systems to provide access to markets. Disruption of transportation services due to weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs, break-downs of locks and dams or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers and adversely affect our profitability. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer's purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our coal less competitive. Terrorist attacks and threat escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may materially adversely affect our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell our coal and overcapacity in the coal industry could adversely affect pricing, either of which could impair our profitability. We compete with coal producers in various regions of the United States for domestic sales primarily to power generators. This domestic competition is often times under the influence of logistical costs. Demand for our coal by our principal customers is affected by the delivered price of competing coals, other fuel supplies and alternative generating sources, including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric power. Increases in coal prices could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any resulting overcapacity could affect our ability to sell coal or reduce coal prices, either of which would likely reduce our revenues. 15 We require a skilled workforce to run our business. If we cannot hire qualified people to meet replacement or expansion needs, we may not be able to achieve planned results. Most of our workforce is comprised of people with technical skills related to coal mining. Some of our workforce is 50 years of age or older. We expect that some of our employees may retire between now and the next five to seven years. This will require us to conduct an expanded and sustained effort to recruit new employees to replace those who retire and to fill new jobs as we grow our business. A lack of qualified people may adversely impact our operations and profitability. The characteristics of coal may make it difficult for coal users to comply with various environmental standards, which are continually under review by international federal and state agencies, related to coal combustion. As a result, they may switch to other fuels, which would adversely affect our sales. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air when coal is burned. Stricter environmental regulations of emissions from coal-fired electric generating plants could increase the costs of using coal thereby reducing demand for coal as a fuel source, the volume of our coal sales and price. Stricter regulations could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative in the planning and building of utility power plants in the future. For example, in order to meet the federal Clean Air Act limits for sulfur dioxide emissions from electric power plants, coal users will need to install scrubbers, use sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may purchase), or switch to other fuels. Each option has limitations. Lower sulfur coal may be more costly to purchase on an energy basis than higher sulfur coal depending on mining and transportation costs. The cost of installing scrubbers is significant and emission allowances may become more expensive as their availability declines. Switching to other fuels may require expensive modification of existing plants. Though our coal generally is lower in sulfur content, it is possible that higher regulatory compliance costs could make alternative fuel sources, such as natural gas, more cost effective for our customers. Proposed reductions in emissions of mercury, sulfur dioxides, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter or greenhouse gases may require the installation of additional costly control technology or the implementation of other measures, including trading of emission allowances and switching to other fuels. For example, in 2005 the Environmental Protection Agency proposed separate regulations to establish mercury emission limits nationwide and to reduce the interstate transport of fine particulate matter and ozone through reductions in sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxides throughout the eastern United States. The Environmental Protection Agency continues to require reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions in a number of eastern states and the District of Columbia and will require reduction of particulate matter emissions over the next several years for areas that do not meet air quality standards for fine particulates. In addition, Congress and several states may consider legislation to further control air emissions of multiple pollutants from electric generating facilities and other large emitters. Any new or proposed reductions will make it more costly to operate coal-fired plants and could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative to the planning and building of utility power plants in the future. To the extent that any new or proposed requirements affect our customers, this could adversely affect our operations and results. We may not be able to produce sufficient amounts of coal to fulfill our customers' requirements, which could harm our relationships with customers. We may not be able to produce sufficient amounts of coal to meet customer demand, including amounts that we are required to deliver under take or pay contracts. In such case, our inability to satisfy contractual obligations could result in our customers initiating claims against us. Our mining operations consume significant quantities of commodities, the price of which is determined by international markets. If commodity prices increase significantly or rapidly, it could impact our cost of production. Coal mines consume large quantities of commodities such as steel, copper, rubber products, and liquid fuels. Some commodities, such as steel, are needed to comply with roof control plans required by regulation. The prices we pay for these products are strongly impacted by the global commodities market. A rapid or significant increase in the cost of some commodities could impact our mining costs because we have a limited ability to negotiate lower prices, and, in some cases, do not have a ready substitute for these commodities. 16 Proposals to regulate greenhouse gas emissions could impact the market for our fossil fuels, increase our costs, and reduce the value of our coal assets. Numerous proposals have been made at the international, national, regional, and state levels of government that are intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gas ("GHGs"), such as carbon dioxide and methane. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal we produce, results in the creation of carbon dioxide that is currently emitted into the atmosphere by coal end users. Several states have already adopted measures requiring reduction of GHGs within state boundaries. If comprehensive regulations focusing on GHGs emission reductions were to be enacted by the United States or additional individual states, it may adversely affect the use of and demand for fossil fuels, particularly coal. Further regulation of GHGs could occur in the United States pursuant to treaty obligations, regulation under the Clean Air Act, or regulation under state law. In 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Massachusetts vs. Environmental Protection Agency, that the Environmental Protection Agency had authority to regulate GHGs under the Clean Air Act, reversing the Environmental Protection Agency's interpretation of the Clean Air Act. This decision could lead to federal regulation of GHGs under the existing Clean Air Act of coal-fired electric generation stations, which could adversely affect demand for our coal. Government laws, regulations and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment, health and safety matters and others that govern our business increase our costs of doing business, and may restrict our operations We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining or drilling properties after mining or drilling is completed, the installation of various safety equipment in our mines, control of surface subsidence from underground mining and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position. In addition, we could incur substantial costs, including clean up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third party damage claims for personal injury, property damage, wrongful death, or exposure to hazardous substances, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental and health and safety laws. Such laws, rules and regulations continue to expand in their scope and their impact on the company’s operations increases year to year. Our mines are subject to stringent federal and state safety regulations that increase our cost of doing business at active operations, and may place restrictions on our methods of operation. In addition, government inspectors under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operation to be shut down based on safety considerations. Stringent health and safety standards were imposed by federal legislation when the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 was adopted. The Federal Coal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 expanded the enforcement of safety and health standards of the Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 and imposed safety and health standards on all (non-coal as well as coal) mining operations. Regulations are comprehensive and affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, the equipment used in mine emergency procedures, mine plans and other matters. The various requirements mandated by law or regulation can have a significant effect on operating costs and place restrictions on our methods of operations. In addition, government inspectors under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operation to be shut down based on safety considerations. Occasionally, Hidden Splendor is issued citations and orders by the Mine Safety and Health Administration in connection with inspections of the Horizon Mine. At times, Hidden Splendor challenges citations and orders, resulting in having citations vacated by the agency, reductions to proposed penalties or administrative adjudications. As of December 31, 2011, Hidden Splendor had challenges pending in a number of administrative actions. Such actions cover a total of approximately $1,287,431 proposed, assessed penalties. The operations of the Horizon Mine, like the operations of all coal mines in the United States, remain subject to extensive inspection and evaluation by MSHA. Failure to comply with government regulations or pay fines that are assessed could cause us to curtail operations. 17 There are uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. There are uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff. Some of the factors and assumptions which impact economically recoverable reserve estimates include: · geological conditions; · historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; · the assumed effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; · assumptions governing future prices; and · future operating costs, including cost of materials. Each of these factors may in fact vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating reserves. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of coal attributable to a particular group of properties, and classifications of those reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net cash flows, may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Coal Mining is a dangerous industry. Coal mining, especially underground coal mining, is dangerous. Great care must be taken to assure safe, continued operations. Past experiences of others in the industry indicate that lapses in safety practices can result in catastrophic events in coal mining operations. Even when best mining practices are strictly observed, natural disasters such as an earthquake could possibly destroy a coal mine's operations. Any catastrophic event at our coal mine which would close our mine for an extended period of time likely would cause the failure of our operations. We do not insure against all potential operating risks. We may incur losses and be subject to liability claims as a result of our operations. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially, and in some instances, certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. As a result, we may not be able to renew our existing insurance policies or procure other desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we maintain insurance at levels we believe are appropriate and consistent with industry practice, we are not fully insured against all risks. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Losses and liabilities from uninsured and underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are dependent upon the services of Messrs. Baker, Davies, and Walker The success of the Company is dependent upon, among other things, the services of Dan R. Baker, our chief executive officer; Brent Davies, our chief financial officer; and Alexander H. Walker III, our chairman and secretary. The Company does not currently have employment agreements with Messrs. Baker, Davies and Walker, and does not maintain any key man insurance on the lives of any of these individuals. The loss of any of these executives, for any reason, would have a material adverse effect on the Company. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Future sales of our Common Stock could lower our stock price. We will likely sell additional shares of Common Stock in future financings. We may also issue additional shares of Common Stock to finance future acquisitions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Common Stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Common Stock will have on the market price of our Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Common Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Common Stock. Moreover, sales of our Common Stock by existing shareholders could also depress the price of our Common Stock. 18 We presently do not intend to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, prospective investors who anticipate the need for immediate income by way of cash dividends from their investment should not purchase our Common Stock. Control by current shareholders. The current shareholders have elected the directors and the directors have appointed current executive officers to serve America West. The current shareholders will continue to have the ability to elect the directors for the foreseeable future. The voting power of these shareholders could also discourage others from seeking to acquire control of us through the purchase of our Common Stock which might depress the price of our Common Stock. There is not now, and there may not ever be, an active market for the Company’s common or preferred stock. There currently is a limited public market for the Company’s common or preferred stock. Even though the Company intends to eventually list on the NYSE AMEX Equities or NASDAQ exchange, there can be no assurance those prospective listing efforts will be successful. Further, although the Common Stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, trading of its Common Stock may be extremely sporadic. For example, several days may pass before any shares may be traded. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, the Common Stock. Accordingly, investors must assume they may have to bear the economic risk of an investment in the Common Stock for an indefinite period of time. This severely limits the liquidity of the Common Stock, and would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Common Stock and on the Company’s ability to raise additional capital. The Company cannot assure that the Common Stock will become liquid or that the Common Stock will be listed on a securities exchange. Until the Common Stock is listed on an exchange, the Company expects its Common Stock to remain eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board, or on another over-the-counter quotation system, or in the “pink sheets.” In those venues, however, an investor may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the Common Stock. In addition, if the Company fails to meet the criteria set forth in SEC regulations, various requirements would be imposed by law on broker-dealers who sell the Company’s securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such regulations may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling the Common Stock, which may further affect the liquidity of the Common Stock. This would also make it more difficult for the Company to raise additional capital. Applicable SEC rules governing the trading of “penny stocks” limits the trading and liquidity of the shares, which may affect the trading price of the Common Stock. The Common Stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, and trades below $5.00 per share; therefore, the Common Stock is considered a “penny stock” and subject to SEC rules and regulations which impose limitations upon the manner in which such shares may be publicly traded. These regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Under these regulations, certain brokers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers or certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination regarding such purchaser and receive such purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. These regulations have the effect of limiting the trading activity of the Common Stock and reducing the liquidity of an investment in the Common Stock. The price of the Company’s Common Stock may become volatile, which could lead to losses by investors and costly securities litigation. The trading price of the Common Stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate in response to factors such as: · actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s operating results; · announcements of developments by the Company or its competitors; · announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · adoption of new accounting standards affecting the Company’s industry; 19 · additions or departures of key personnel; · adoption of new or revised regulation in the industry; · sales of the Company’s Common Stock or other securities in the open market; and · other events or factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The stock market is subject to significant price and volume fluctuations. Price fluctuations could result in litigation being initiated against the Company, which litigation, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and diversion of its management’s attention and resources, which could harm the Company’s business and financial condition. Cost of continued compliance with SEC rules and regulations is expensive. The Company will incur ongoing costs and expenses in complying with Exchange Act rules and regulations as a result of being a reporting company. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. While the Company believes that it has adequate internal controls, it may determine that such controls are insufficient, requiring the Company to hire additional personnel to implement such controls. Our quarter-to-quarter performance may vary substantially, and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause our stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to litigation. Our future expense estimates are based, in large part, on estimates of future revenue, which are difficult to predict despite the existing long-term contracts. We expect to continue to make significant expenditures in order to expand production, sales, marketing and administrative systems and processes. We may be unable to, or may elect not to, adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. If our increased expenses are not accompanied by increased revenue in the same quarter, our quarterly operating results would be harmed. In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of investors and the trading price of our securities may decline as a consequence. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict the future performance of our stock price. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have often been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. We may issue Preferred Stock. We are authorized to issue 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine the preferences, voting powers, qualifications and special or relative rights or privileges of any series before the issuance of any shares of that series without any further vote or action by the stockholders. Our board, without shareholder approval, can issue preferred stock with voting and conversion rights which could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of Common Stock. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our Company. Our board of directors shall determine the number of shares constituting each series of preferred stock and each series shall have a distinguishing designation. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock, there can be no assurance that the Company will not do so in the future. We have outstanding options & warrants, which may be dilutive to shareholders. As of the date of this Reports, the Company has warrants and options outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 3,164,402 shares of Common Stock, at prices ranging from $0.01 to $5.40, expiring the later of January 21, 2016 (with approximately 172,083 shares of Common Stock underlying currently exercisable options and warrants having an exercise price of $0.01 per share). If any of these warrants or options are exercised, it will result in dilution to our shareholders. 20 