ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including risks related to our supply chain, sales channels, liquidity, operations, intellectual property, and our debt and equity securities. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below certain key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our class A and class B common stock as well as our 4.50% senior convertible debentures, 4.75% senior convertible debentures, 1.25% senior convertible debentures and 0.75% senior convertible debentures. Risks Related to Our Sales Channels The increase in the global supply of solar cells and panels, and increasing competition, may cause substantial downward pressure on the prices of such products and cause us to lose sales or market share, resulting in lower revenues, earnings, and cash flow. Global solar cell and panel production capacity materially increased in 2009 and 2010, and is expected to continue to increase in the future. Many competitors or potential competitors, particularly in China, continue to expand their production, 14Table of Contentscreating a potential oversupply of solar panels and cells in key markets. Increases in solar panel production and industry competition have resulted, and will continue to result, in substantial downward pressure on the price of solar cells and panels, including SunPower products. Increasing competition could also result in us losing sales or market share. Such price reductions or loss of sales or market share could continue to have a negative impact on our revenue and earnings, and could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and cash flows. See also "If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services, while continuing to reduce our costs, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to generate revenues will suffer." Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations and are inherently unpredictable and in particular, revenues from our UPP Segment are susceptible to large fluctuations. We do not know if our revenue will grow, or if it will grow sufficiently to outpace our expenses, which we expect to increase as we expand our manufacturing capacity. For example, in the second fiscal quarter of 2010 we experienced a net loss. We may not be profitable on a quarterly basis. Our quarterly revenue and operating results will be difficult to predict and have in the past fluctuated from quarter to quarter. In particular, revenue in our UPP Segment is difficult to forecast and is susceptible to large fluctuations. The amount, timing and mix of sales in our UPP Segment, often for a single medium or large-scale project, may cause large fluctuations in our revenue and other financial results as, at any given time, our UPP Segment is dependent on large-scale projects and often a single project can account for a material portion of our total revenue in a given quarter. Our inability to monetize our projects as planned, or any delay in obtaining the required initial payments to begin recognizing revenue under the relevant recognition criteria, and the corresponding revenue impact under the percentage-of-completion method of recognizing revenue, may similarly cause large fluctuations in our revenue and other financial results. A delayed disposition of a project could require us to recognize a gain on the sale of assets instead of recognizing revenue. Further, our revenue mix of materials sales versus project sales can fluctuate dramatically from quarter to quarter, which may adversely affect our margins and financial results in any given period. Any decrease in revenue from our large UPP Segment customers, whether due to a loss or delay of projects or an inability to collect, could have a significant negative impact on our business. Our agreements with these customers may be cancelled if we fail to meet certain product specifications or materially breach the agreement. In the event of a customer bankruptcy, our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. In addition, the failure by any significant customer to pay for orders, whether due to liquidity issues or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Any of the foregoing may cause us to miss any current and future revenue or earnings guidance and negatively impact liquidity. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue and a significant portion of our expenses is fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. This may cause us to miss any revenue or earnings guidance announced by us. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our solar power plants and our customers, and is affected by general economic conditions. The general economy and limited availability of credit and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We often require project financing for development and construction of our solar power plant projects, which require significant investments before the equity is later sold to investors. Many purchasers of our systems projects have entered into third-party arrangements to finance their systems over an extended period of time while many end-customers have chosen to purchase solar electricity under a power purchase agreement (“PPA”) with an investor or financing company that purchases the system from us or our authorized dealers. In addition, under our power purchase business model, we often execute PPAs directly with the end-user customer purchasing solar electricity, with the expectation that we will later assign the PPA to a financier. Under such arrangements, the financier separately contracts with us to build and acquire the solar power system, and then sells the electricity to the end-user customer under the assigned PPA. When executing PPAs with the end-user customers, we seek to mitigate the risk that a financier will not be available for the project by allowing termination of the PPA in such event without penalty. However, we may not always be successful in negotiating for penalty-free termination rights for failure to obtain financing, and certain end-user customers have required substantial financial penalties in exchange for such rights. These structured finance arrangements are complex and may not be feasible in many situations. Due to the general challenging credit markets worldwide, we may be unable to obtain project financing for our projects, customers may be unable or unwilling to finance the cost of our products, we may have difficulties in reaching agreements with financiers to finance the construction of our solar power systems, or the parties that have historically provided this financing may cease to do so, or only do so on terms that are substantially less favorable for us or our customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and growth in all segments of our business. The lack of project financing could delay the development and construction of our solar power plant projects, thus reducing our revenues in the UPP 15Table of ContentsSegment from the sale of such projects. Many customers, especially in the United States, choose to purchase solar electricity under a PPA with a financing company that buys the system from us and the lack of availability of such financing could lead to reduced revenues. If economic recovery is slow in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our solar power products, which may harm our operating results. We may in some cases seek to pursue partnership arrangements with financing entities to assist residential and other customers to obtain financing for the purchase or lease of our systems, which would expose us to credit or other risks. In addition, a rise in interest rates would likely increase our customers’ cost of financing our products and could reduce their profits and expected returns on investment in our products. The general reduction in available credit to would-be borrowers, the poor state of economies worldwide, and the condition of housing markets worldwide, could delay or reduce our sales of products to new homebuilders and authorized resellers. The reduction, modification or elimination of government and economic incentives could cause our revenue to decline and harm our financial results. The market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network or sold to a utility under tariff, depends in large part on the availability and size of government mandates and economic incentives because, at present, the cost of solar power generally exceeds retail electric rates in many locations. Such incentives vary by geographic market. Various government bodies in most of the countries where we do business have provided incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, and tax credits and other incentives and mandates, such as renewable portfolio standards, to end-users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Some of these government mandates and economic incentives are scheduled to be reduced or to expire, or could be fundamentally restructured, including the feed-in tariffs in Germany and Italy. Since our acquisition of SunRay Malta Holdings Limited (“SunRay”) in March 2010, project development business in Europe, and particularly Italy in the near term, have expanded significantly, increasing our exposure to regulatory changes in certain European countries. Because our sales are into the on-grid market, the reduction, modification or elimination of government mandates and economic incentives in one or more of our customer markets would materially and adversely affect the growth of such markets or result in increased price competition, either of which could cause our revenue to decline and harm our financial results. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products and services. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry in the United States and abroad, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation, and could deter further investment in the research and development of alternative energy sources as well as customer purchases of solar power technology, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will continue to be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with federal, state, local and foreign regulations relating to construction, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering, and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states or local jurisdictions and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new regulations or policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and our resellers’ customers, which could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. See also "Risks Related to Our Operations—We sell our solar products to agencies of the U.S. government, and as a result, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations, and our business could be adversely affected by an audit by the U.S. government if it were to identify errors or failure to comply with regulations." We may incur unexpected warranty and product liability claims that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our current standard product warranty for our solar panels includes a 10-year warranty period for defects in materials and workmanship and a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. We perform accelerated lifecycle testing that expose our solar panels to extreme stress and climate conditions in both environmental simulation chambers and in actual field deployments in order to highlight potential failures that would occur over the 25-year warranty period. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenue. Although we conduct accelerated testing of our solar panels and have several years of experience with our all-back-contact solar cell architecture, our solar panels have not and cannot be tested in an environment that exactly simulates the 25-year warranty period and it is difficult to test for all conditions that may occur in the field. We have sold solar panels since the early 2000's and have therefore not tested the full warranty 16Table of Contentscycle. In our project installations, our current standard warranty for our solar power systems differs by geography and end-customer application and usually includes a limited warranty of up to 10 years for defects in work and workmanship, after which the customer may typically extend the period covered by its warranty for an additional fee. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have completed a project and recognized revenues. Warranty and product liability claims may also result from defects or quality issues in certain third party technology and components that our business incorporates into its solar power systems, particularly solar cells and panels, over which we have little or no control. While we generally pass through manufacturer warranties we receive from our suppliers to our customers, in some circumstances, we may be responsible for repairing or replacing defective parts during our warranty period, often including those covered by manufacturers' warranties, or incur other non-warranty costs. If the manufacturer disputes or otherwise fails to honor its warranty obligations, we may be required to incur substantial costs before we are compensated, if at all, by the manufacturer. Furthermore, our warranties may exceed the period of any warranties from our suppliers covering components, such as third party solar cells, third party panels and third party inverters, included in our systems. In addition, manufacturer warranties may not fully compensate us for losses associated with third-party claims caused by defects or quality issues in their products. For example, most manufacturer warranties exclude many losses that may result from a system component's failure or defect, such as the cost of de-installation, re-installation, shipping, lost electricity, lost renewable energy credits or other solar incentives, personal injury, property damage, and other losses. In certain cases our direct warranty coverage provided by SunPower to our customers, and therefore our financial exposure, may exceed our recourse available against cell, panel or other manufacturers for defects in their products. In addition, in the event we seek recourse through warranties, we will also be dependent on the creditworthiness and continued existence of the suppliers to our business. Increases in the defect rate of SunPower or third party products could cause us to increase the amount of warranty reserves and have a corresponding negative impact on our results of operations. Further, potential future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products, and we have agreed in some circumstances to indemnify our customers and our distributors against liability from some defects in our solar products. A successful indemnification claim against us could require us to make significant damage payments. Repair and replacement costs, as well as successful indemnification claims, could materially and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Like other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products that are used by customers, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products into which solar cells and solar panels are incorporated results in injury, property damage or other damages. We may be subject to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our solar power systems fail to perform as expected or if a failure of our solar power systems results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage or other damages. Since our solar power products are electricity producing devices, it is possible that our systems could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. In addition, since we only began selling our solar cells and solar panels in the early 2000s and the products we are developing incorporate new technologies and use new installation methods, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. We rely on our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product liability insurance. A successful warranty or product liability claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages. In addition, quality issues can have various other ramifications, including delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue, loss of future sales opportunities, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and reputation, which could also adversely affect our business and operating results. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services, while continuing to reduce our costs, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency and higher power output and improved aesthetics. Technologies developed by our direct competitors, including thin film solar panels, concentrating solar cells, solar thermal electric and other solar technologies, may provide power at lower costs than our products. We also face competition in some markets from other power generation sources, including conventional fossil fuels, wind, biomass, and hydro. In addition, other companies could potentially develop a highly reliable renewable energy system that mitigates the intermittent power production drawback of many renewable energy systems. Companies could also offer other value-added improvements from the perspective of utilities and other system owners, in which case such companies could compete with us even if the cost of electricity associated with such new system is higher than that of our systems. 17Table of ContentsOur solar panels are currently competitive in the market compared with lower cost conventional solar cells, such as thin-film, due to their higher efficiency. If our competitors are able to drive down their manufacturing costs faster than us, our products may become less competitive even when adjusted for efficiency. If we cannot effectively execute our cost reduction roadmap, our competitive position would suffer, and we could lose market share and our margins would be adversely impacted as we face downward pricing pressure. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products or our manufacturing facilities to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. This will require us to continuously develop new solar power products and enhancements for existing solar power products to keep pace with evolving industry standards, competitive pricing and changing customer requirements. If we cannot continually improve the efficiency of our solar panels as compared to those of our competitors', our pricing will become less competitive, and we could lose market share and our margins would be adversely impacted. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into our products, we will face risks relating to such transitions including, among other things, technical challenges, acceptance of products by our customers, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects arising from the integration of new technology and a potentially different sales and support environment relating to any new technology. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into our products could adversely affect our business’s operating results and financial condition. A limited number of customers are expected to continue to comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenue from these customers could have a significant adverse effect on us. Even though we expect our customer base to expand and our revenue streams to diversify, a substantial portion of our revenues could continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers and the loss of sales to or inability to collect from these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. Our agreements with these customers may be cancelled if we fail to meet certain product specifications, materially breach the agreement, or in the event of bankruptcy, and our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. In addition, the failure by any significant customer to pay for orders, whether due to liquidity issues or otherwise, could materially and negatively affect our results of operations. We often do not have long-term agreements with our customers and accordingly could lose customers without warning, which could cause our operating results to decline. Our product sales to residential dealers and components customers are frequently not accomplished under long-term agreements. We also contract to construct or sell large projects with no assurance of repeat business from the same customers in the future. Although we believe that cancellations on our purchase orders to date have been insignificant, our customers may cancel or reschedule purchase orders with us on relatively short notice. Cancellations or rescheduling of customer orders could result in the delay or loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce, or delay the incurrence of, our corresponding inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from these or other customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These circumstances, in addition to the completion and non-repetition of large projects, variations in average selling prices, changes in the relative mix of sales of solar equipment versus solar project installations, and the fact that our supply agreements are generally long-term in nature and many of our other operating costs are fixed, in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate and may result in a material adverse effect in our business and financial results. Almost all of our engineering, procurement and construction ("EPC") contracts are fixed price contracts which may be insufficient to cover unanticipated or dramatic changes in costs over the life of the project. Almost all of our EPC contracts in both our UPP Segment and R&C Segment are fixed price contracts. All essential costs are estimated at the time of entering into the EPC contract for a particular project, and these are reflected in the overall price that we charge our customers for the project. These cost estimates are preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the subcontractors, suppliers and any other parties that may become necessary to complete the project. Thus, if the cost of materials were to rise dramatically as a result of sudden increased demand, these costs may have to be borne by us. In addition, we require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of our systems. Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. In several instances in the past, we have obtained change orders that reimburse us for additional unexpected costs due to various reasons. Should miscalculations in planning a project or delays in execution occur, there can be no guarantee that we would be successful in obtaining reimbursement and we may not 18Table of Contentsachieve our expected margins or we may be required to record a loss in the relevant fiscal period. Our business could be adversely affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles. Our business is subject to significant industry-specific seasonal fluctuations. Sales have historically reflected these seasonal trends with the largest percentage of total revenues being realized during the last two calendar quarters. Low seasonal demand normally results in reduced shipments and revenues in the first two calendar quarters. There are various reasons for this seasonality, mostly related to economic incentives and weather patterns. For example, in European countries with feed-in tariffs, the construction of solar power systems may be concentrated during the second half of the calendar year, largely due to the annual reduction of the applicable minimum feed-in tariff and the fact that the coldest winter months are January through March. In the United States, customers will sometimes make purchasing decisions towards the end of the year in order to take advantage of tax credits or for other budgetary reasons. In addition, sales in the new home development market are often tied to construction market demands which tend to follow national trends in construction, including declining sales during cold weather months. The competitive environment in which we operate often requires us to undertake customer obligations that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if our customer obligations are more costly than expected. We are often required as a condition of financing or at the request of our end customer to undertake certain obligations such as: • System output performance guarantees; • System maintenance; • Penalty payments or customer termination rights if the system we are constructing is not commissioned within specified timeframes or other construction milestones are not achieved; • Guarantees of certain minimum residual value of the system at specified future dates; and • System put-rights whereby we could be required to buy-back a customer’s system at fair value on specified future dates if certain minimum performance thresholds are not met. Such financing arrangements and customer obligations involve complex accounting analyses and judgments regarding the timing of revenue and expense recognition, and in certain situations these factors may require us to defer revenue recognition until projects are completed, which could adversely affect revenue and profits in a particular period. Risks Related to Our Liquidity Due to the general economic environment and other factors, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments as planned. We anticipate that our operating and capital expenditures will increase substantially in the foreseeable future. To develop new products, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and process technology. We also anticipate increased costs as we expand our manufacturing operations, hire additional personnel, make advance payments for raw materials or pay more to procure such materials, especially polysilicon, increase our sales and marketing efforts, invest in joint ventures and acquisitions, and continue our research and development efforts with respect to our products and manufacturing technologies. In addition, we expect to invest a significant amount of capital to develop solar power systems and plants initially owned by us. The development and construction of solar power plants can require long periods of time and substantial initial investments. The delayed disposition of such projects could have a negative impact on our liquidity. See "Risk Related to Our Operations—We may make significant investments in building solar power plants without first obtaining project financing, and the delayed sale of our projects would adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations." Certain of our customers also require performance bonds issued by a bonding agency or letters of credit issued by financial institutions. Obtaining letters of credit requires adequate collateral. Our letter of credit facility with Deutsche Bank is at least 50% collateralized by restricted cash, which reduces the amount of cash available for operations. We expect total capital expenditures in the range of $130.0 million to $150.0 million in 2011 relating to improvements 19Table of Contentsof our current generation solar cell manufacturing technology and other projects. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations and funds available under our mortgage loan agreement with IFC and our revolving credit facilities with Union Bank and Société Générale will be sufficient to meet our working capital and fund our committed capital expenditures over the next 12 months, including the development and construction of solar power plants over the next 12 months. Certain of our revolving credit facilities are scheduled to expire and amounts borrowed thereunder are due in 2011 and we plan to negotiate new facilities or renegotiate and/or extend our existing facilities. There can be no assurance that our negotiations will be successful or that liquidity will be adequate over time. Our capital expenditures and use of working capital may be greater than we expect if we decide to make additional investments in the development and construction of solar power plants and sales of power plants and associated cash proceeds are delayed, or we decide to accelerate ramping our manufacturing capacity both internally and through capital contributions to joint ventures. We require project financing in connection with the construction of solar power plants, which financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, we could in the future make additional investments in our joint ventures or guarantee certain financial obligations of our joint ventures, which could reduce our cash flows, increase our indebtedness and expose us to the credit risk of our joint ventures. If our financial results or operating plans change from our current assumptions, or if the holders of our outstanding 4.50% convertible debentures due 2015 or 1.25% convertible debentures due 2027 become entitled, and elect, to convert the debentures into cash or cash and shares of class A common stock, respectively, we may not have sufficient resources to support our business plan or pay cash in connection with the redemption of outstanding 4.50% and 1.25% debentures. Holders of our 1.25% debentures may require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 1.25% debentures on February 15, 2012. Any repurchase of our 1.25% debentures pursuant to these provisions will be for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 1.25% debentures to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we may redeem some or all of our 1.25% debentures on or after February 15, 2012 for cash at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 1.25% debentures to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. Also, holders of our debentures may also require us to repurchase their debentures for cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debentures to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest in the event that our obligations under other indebtedness in excess of $25 million or $50 million, as applicable, are accelerated and we fail to discharge such obligations. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financings; although the current economic environment could also limit our ability to raise capital by issuing new equity or debt securities on acceptable terms, and lenders may be unwilling to lend funds on acceptable terms that would be required to supplement cash flows to support operations. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and would likely impose new restrictive covenants which may be similar or different than those restrictions contained in the covenants under our current debt agreements and debentures. Financing arrangements, including project financing for our solar power plants and letters of credit facilities, may not be available to us, or may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us. We may also seek to sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or refinance or restructure our debt. For additional details see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows, find other sources of capital or access capital markets to fund our operations and solar power plant projects, make adequate capital investments to remain competitive in terms of technology development and cost efficiency, or provide bonding or letters of credit required by our projects. If adequate funds and alternative resources are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, develop and construct solar power plants, develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, maintain our research and development efforts, provide collateral for our projects or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. Our inability to do the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our current tax holidays in the Philippines and Switzerland will expire within the next several years. We currently benefit from income tax holiday incentives in the Philippines in accordance with our subsidiary’s registration with the Philippine Economic Zone Authority ("PEZA"), which provide that we pay no income tax in the Philippines. Our current income tax holidays were granted as manufacturing lines were placed in services and thereafter expire within the next several years beginning in 2011, and we have applied for extensions and renewals upon expiration. However, these tax holidays may or may not be extended and the holiday for two of the sixteen total manufacturing lines expired at the end of 2010 and were extended through November 2011. We believe that as our Philippine tax holidays expire, (a) gross income attributable to activities covered by our PEZA registrations will be taxed at a 5% preferential rate, and (b) our Philippine net income attributable to all other activities will be taxed at the statutory Philippine corporate income tax rate, currently 30%. An increase in our tax liability could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 20Table of ContentsWe have an auxiliary company ruling in Switzerland where we sell our solar power products. The auxiliary company ruling results in a reduced effective Swiss tax rate of approximately 11.5%. The current ruling expires in 2015. If the ruling is not renewed in 2015, Swiss income would be taxable at the full Swiss tax rate of approximately 24.2%. Our substantial indebtedness and other contractual commitments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to meet any of our payment obligations under the 1.25%, 4.50% and 4.75% debentures and our other debt. We currently have a significant amount of debt and debt service requirements that could have material consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the 1.25%, 4.50% and 4.75% debentures and our other outstanding debt; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements (with certain covenants becoming more restrictive over time), which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, project development, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates; • subjecting us to the risk of currency fluctuations and government-fixed foreign exchange rates and the effects of currency hedging activity or inability to hedge currency fluctuation; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the 1.25%, 4.50% and 4.75% debentures and our other debt. In addition, we also have significant contractual commitments for the purchase of polysilicon, some of which involve prepayments, and we may enter into additional, similar long-term supply agreements in the future. Further, if the holders of our outstanding 1.25% and 4.50% debentures have been entitled to, and do convert their debentures, the principal amount must be settled in cash and to the extent that the conversion obligation exceeds the principal amount of any debentures converted, we must satisfy the remaining conversion obligation of the 1.25% debentures in shares of our class A common stock. Future conversions could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt. A change in our effective tax rate can have a significant adverse impact on our business. A number of factors may adversely impact our future effective tax rates, such as the jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; adjustments to the our interpretation of transfer pricing standards, changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (for example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform); changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP"); expiration or the inability to renew tax rulings or tax holiday incentives; and the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. A change in our effective tax rate due to any of these factors may adversely impact our future results from operations. See Part II — “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Results of Operations–Income Taxes.” Because we self-insure for certain indemnities we have made to our officers and directors, potential claims could materially and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. We primarily self-insured with respect to 21Table of Contentspotential indemnifiable claims historically. Although we have insured our officers and directors against certain potential third-party claims for which we are legally or financially unable to indemnify them, we have historically primarily self-insured with respect to potential third-party claims which give rise to direct liability to such third party or an indemnification duty on our part. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insured, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. See also “Risks Related to Our Operations -- We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as parties to various lawsuits relating to our past Philippines accounting issues, and may be named in further litigation, including with respect to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, all of which could require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages, and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to suffer.” Our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. We may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing, because our debt agreements, foreign exchange hedging agreements and equity derivative agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; • create liens; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • sell certain assets; • redeem capital stock or make other restricted payments; • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and • merge or consolidate with any person. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the 1.25%, 4.50% and 4.75% debentures and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. Risks Related to Our Supply Chain We will continue to be dependent on a limited number of third-party suppliers for certain raw materials and components for our products, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which in turn could result in sales and installation delays, cancellations, penalty payments and loss of market share. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers, including our joint ventures, for certain raw materials and components for our solar cells, panels and power systems such as polysilicon, inverters and third-party solar panels. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with our suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products or our products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay. Such delays could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes and cause order cancellations and loss of market share. To the extent the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative suppliers. In addition, the financial markets could limit our suppliers’ ability to raise capital if required to expand their production or satisfy their operating capital requirements. As a result, they could be unable to supply necessary raw materials, inventory and capital equipment to us which we would require to support our planned sales operations which would in turn negatively impact our sales volumes profitability and cash flows. The failure of a supplier to supply raw materials or components in a timely manner, or to supply raw materials or components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements, could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase the cost of production. If we cannot obtain substitute materials or components on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which could result in sales and installation delays, cancellations, penalty 22Table of Contentspayments or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. Limited competition among suppliers has required us in some instances to enter into long-term, firm commitment supply agreements that could result in excess or insufficient inventory and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Due to the industry-wide shortage of polysilicon experienced in previous years, we have purchased polysilicon that we resell to third-party ingot and wafer manufacturers who deliver wafers to us that we then use in the manufacturing of our solar cells. Without sufficient polysilicon, some of those ingot and wafer manufacturers would not be able to produce the wafers on which we rely. To match our estimated customer demand forecasts and growth strategy for the next several years, we have entered into multiple long-term supply agreements, including agreements with our joint ventures, Woongjin Energy and First Philec Solar. Some agreements provide for fixed or inflation-adjusted pricing, substantial prepayment obligations, and firm purchase commitments that require us to pay for the supply whether or not we accept delivery. If such agreements require us to purchase more polysilicon, ingots or wafers than required to meet our actual customer demand over time, the resulting excess inventory could materially and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, if the prices under our long-term supply agreements result in our paying more for such supplies than the current market prices available to our competitors, we may also be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and our profitability could decline. If our agreements provide insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, or if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with the contracted quantities, we may purchase additional supply at available market prices which could be greater than expected and could materially and negatively impact our results of operations. Such market prices could also be greater than prices paid by our competitors, placing us at a competitive disadvantage and leading to a decline in our profitability. Further, we face significant specific counterparty risk under long-term supply agreements when dealing with suppliers without a long, stable production and financial history. In the event any such supplier experiences financial difficulties, it may be difficult or impossible, or may require substantial time and expense, for us to recover any or all of our prepayments. Any of the foregoing could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. If third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to sell their solar cells or panels to us, our business and results of operations may be materially negatively affected. We purchase a portion of our total product mix from third-party manufacturers of solar cells and panels, often marketing them under our Serengeti brand. Such products increase our inventory available for sale to customers in some markets. However, such manufacturers may not be willing to sell solar cells and panels to us at the quantities and on the terms and conditions we require. Such manufacturers may be our direct competitors. If they are unable or unwilling to sell to us, we may not have sufficient products available to sell to customers and satisfy our sales commitments, thereby materially and negatively affecting our business and results of operations. In addition, warranty and product liability claims may result from defects or quality issues in connection with third party solar cells and panels that we incorporate into our solar power products. See also “Risks Related to Our Sales Channels -- We may incur unexpected warranty and product liability claims that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.” Risks Related to Our Operations We may not be able to increase or sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. We may not be able to continue to expand our business or manage future growth. We plan to significantly increase our production capacity in 2011 and 2012, which will require successful execution of: • expanding our existing manufacturing facilities and developing new manufacturing facilities, which would increase our fixed costs and, if such facilities are underutilized, would negatively impact our results of operations; • ensuring delivery of adequate polysilicon and ingots; • enhancing our customer resource management and manufacturing management systems; • implementing and improving additional and existing administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls, including the need to centralize, update and integrate our global financial internal control; • hiring additional employees; 23Table of Contents• expanding and upgrading our technological capabilities; • managing multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties; • maintaining adequate liquidity and financial resources; and • continuing to increase our revenues from operations. Our recent expansion has placed, and our planned expansion and any other future expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. Expanding our manufacturing facilities or developing facilities may be delayed by difficulties such as unavailability of equipment or supplies or equipment malfunction. Ensuring delivery of adequate polysilicon and ingots is subject to many market risks including scarcity, significant price fluctuations and competition. Maintaining adequate liquidity is dependent upon a variety of factors including continued revenues from operations and compliance with our indentures and credit agreements. If we are unsuccessful in any of these areas, we may not be able to achieve our growth strategy and increase production capacity as planned during the foreseeable future. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new solar cells and other products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. See also “If we are not successful in adding additional production lines through our joint venture in Malaysia, or we experience interruptions in the operation of our solar cell production lines, our revenue and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.” We may make significant investments in building solar power plants without first obtaining project financing, and the delayed sale of our projects would adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. The development and construction of solar power plants require long periods of time and substantial initial investments, which we may make without first obtaining project financing or getting final regulatory clearance. Such costs may never be recovered if the necessary permits and government approvals are not obtained, project financing (including any Department of Energy loan guarantee) are not obtained, or if a potential project sale cannot be completed on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our efforts in this area may consist of all stages of development, including land acquisition, permitting, financing, construction, operation and the eventual sale of the projects. We will often choose to bear the costs of such efforts prior to obtaining project financing, prior to getting final regulatory clearance, and prior to our final sale to a customer, if any. This involves significant upfront investments of resources (including, for example, large transmission deposits or other payments, which may be non-refundable), land acquisition, permitting, legal and other costs, and in some cases the actual costs of constructing a project, in advance of the signing of PPAs and EPC contracts, the sale of equity in the project and the receipt of any cash or revenue, much of which may not be recognized for several additional months or years following contract signing. Our ability to monetize solar power plant projects is dependent on successfully executing and selling large scale projects and often a single project can account for a material portion of our total revenue in a given quarter. Since consummation of the acquisition of SunRay in March 2010, we have deferred revenue recognition on SunRay construction projects until the projects have been financed, constructed, and sold to independent third parties. Alternatively, we may choose to build, own and operate certain solar power plants for a period of time, after which the project assets may be sold to third parties. In such cases, the delayed disposition of projects could require us to recognize a gain on the sale of assets instead of recognizing revenue. Our potential inability to obtain regulatory clearance, project financing, or enter into sales contracts with customers could adversely affect our business, liquidity and results of operations. Our inability to monetize our projects as planned, or any delay in obtaining the required initial payments to begin recognizing revenue under the relevant recognition criteria, and the corresponding revenue impact under the percentage-of-completion method of recognizing revenue, may cause large fluctuations in our revenue and other financial results. In the event the project is subsequently canceled, abandoned, or is deemed likely to occur, we will charge all prior capital costs as an operating expense in the quarter in which such determination is made, which could materially adversely affect operating results. Our liquidity could also be adversely impacted if we cannot obtain timely project financing or if project sales are delayed. We have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue these efforts, which subject us to additional business risks, including logistical complexity and political instability. A substantial portion of our sales are made to customers outside of the United States, and a substantial portion of our supply agreements are with supply and equipment vendors located outside of the United States. Currently our solar cell production lines are located at our manufacturing facilities in the Philippines, and our joint venture is ramping up its manufacturing facility in Malaysia. The majority of our solar panel assembly functions has historically been conducted by third-party contract manufacturers in China, Poland and Mexico. In addition, in March 2010, we completed the acquisition of SunRay, a European-based project developer with significant international operations.24Table of Contents Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, environmental protection, regulatory requirements and other government approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations as well as cultural differences; • potentially adverse tax consequences associated with our permanent establishment of operations in more countries; • relatively uncertain legal systems, including potentially limited protection for intellectual property rights, and laws, changes in the governmental incentives we rely on, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in certain countries or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies; • repatriation of non-U.S. earnings taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory effective tax rate; • inadequate local infrastructure and developing telecommunications infrastructures; • financial risks, such as longer sales and payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • currency fluctuations and government-fixed foreign exchange rates and the effects of currency hedging activity or inability to hedge currency fluctuations; • political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries; and • liabilities associated with compliance with laws (for example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws outside of the United States). If we are unable to successfully manage any such risks, any one or more could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent protests, violence and political instability in Egypt and certain Middle East countries has increased the risk of political turmoil spreading around the world. Such events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers and suppliers and may affect the availability of materials needed to manufacture our products or the means to transport those materials to manufacturing facilities and finished products to customers. Such events could also increase volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets, which could harm our stock price and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers or suppliers, or adversely affect consumer confidence. Turmoil and unrest in the Middle East or other regions of the world could harm our business and results of operations. If we are not successful in adding additional production lines through our joint venture in Malaysia, or we experience interruptions in the operation of our solar cell production lines, our revenue and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If our current or future solar cell production lines were to experience any problems or downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. Our manufacturing activities have required and will continue to require significant management attention, a significant investment of capital and substantial engineering expenditures. Under a joint venture agreement, we and AU Optronics Corporation ("AUO") jointly own and manage a joint venture that is constructing a manufacturing facility in Malaysia. We expect the joint venture to provide a substantial portion of our solar cell supply beginning in 2011. The success of our joint venture is subject to significant risks including: • cost overruns, delays, supply shortages, equipment problems and other operating difficulties; • difficulties expanding our processes to larger production capacity;25Table of Contents • custom-built equipment may take longer and cost more to engineer than planned and may never operate as designed; • incorporating first-time equipment designs and technology improvements, which we expect to lower unit capital and operating costs, but this new technology may not be successful; • problems managing the joint venture with AUO, whom we do not control and whose business objectives are different from ours and may be inconsistent with our best interests; • AUO's ability to obtain interim financing to fund the joint venture's business plan until such time as third party financing is obtained; • the joint venture's ability to obtain third party financing to fund its capital requirements; • difficulties in maintaining or improving our historical yields and manufacturing efficiencies; • difficulties in protecting our intellectual property and obtaining rights to intellectual property developed by the joint venture; • difficulties in hiring key technical, management, and other personnel; • difficulties in integration, implementing IT infrastructure and an effective control environment; and • potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, financing, or approvals from governmental authorities for operations. If we experience any of these or similar difficulties, we may be unable to complete the addition of new production lines on schedule at our joint venture, and our supply from the joint venture may be delayed or be more costly than expected, substantially constraining our supply of solar cells. If we are unable to ramp up our manufacturing capacity at the joint venture as planned, or we experience interruptions in the operation of our existing production lines, our per-unit manufacturing costs would increase, we would be unable to increase sales or gross margins as planned, we would need to increase our supply of third party solar cells, and our results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. If we do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality in manufacturing our solar cells, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. The manufacture of solar cells is a highly complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield no output. We have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. As we expand our manufacturing capacity and bring additional lines or facilities into production, we may initially experience lower yields. If we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase, and product availability would decrease resulting in lower revenues than expected. Additionally, products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our solar cells or solar panels may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. These defects could cause us to incur significant warranty, non-warranty and re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver solar cells or solar panels with errors or defects, including cells or panels of third-party manufacturers, or if there is a perception that such solar cells or solar panels contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. In addition, some of our arrangements with customers include termination or put rights for non-performance. In certain limited cases, we could incur liquidated damages or even be required to buy-back a customer's system at fair value on specified future dates if certain minimum performance thresholds are not met for periods up to two years. We obtain certain of our capital equipment used in our manufacturing process from sole suppliers and if this equipment is damaged or otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products on time will suffer, which in turn could result in order cancellations and loss of revenue. Some of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of our solar power products has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to 26Table of Contentsbecome damaged or stop working. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to or a breakdown of our manufacturing equipment, our business would suffer. In addition, a supplier’s failure to supply this equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay our capacity expansion of our manufacturing facility and our joint venture and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. Project development or construction activities may not be successful, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. The development and construction of solar power electric generation facilities and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being built. Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: • failures or delays in obtaining desired or necessary land rights, including ownership, leases and/or easements; • failures or delays in obtaining necessary permits, licenses or other governmental approvals, or in overcoming objections from members of the public or adjoining land owners; • uncertainties relating to land costs for projects; • unforeseen engineering problems; • access to available transmission for electricity generated by our solar power plants; • construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; • work stoppages or labor disruptions; • cost over-runs; • availability of products and components from suppliers; • adverse weather conditions; • environmental, archaeological and geological conditions; and • availability of construction and permanent financing. If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power plant, or fail to meet one or more agreed target construction milestone dates, we may be subject to liquidated damages and/or penalties under the EPC agreement or other agreements relating to the power plant, and we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project. We expect to invest a significant amount of capital to develop projects initially owned by us or ultimately owned by third parties. If we are unable to complete the development of a solar power project, we may write-down or write-off some or all of these capitalized investments, which would have an adverse impact on our net income in the period in which the loss is recognized. We depend on third-party contract manufacturers to assemble a significant portion of our solar cells into solar panels and any failure to obtain sufficient assembly and test capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our solar panels and damage our customer relationships. The majority of our solar panel assembly functions have historically been conducted by third-party contract manufacturers in China, Poland and Mexico. We plan to add additional manufacturing capacity for our solar panels in the United States, whether produced internally or by third-party contract manufacturers located in states near attractive solar markets. As a result of outsourcing a significant portion of this final step in our production, we face several significant risks, including limited control over assembly and testing capacity, delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs. If the operations of our third-party contract manufacturers were disrupted or their financial stability impaired, or if they were unable or unwilling to devote capacity to our solar panels in a timely manner, our business could suffer as we might be unable to produce finished solar panels on a timely basis. We also risk customer delays resulting from an inability to move module production to an alternate provider or to complete production internationally, and it may not be possible to obtain 27Table of Contentssufficient capacity or comparable production costs at another facility in a timely manner. In addition, migrating our design methodology to a new third-party contract manufacturer or to a captive panel assembly facility could involve increased costs, resources and development time, and utilizing additional third-party contract manufacturers could expose us to further risk of losing control over our intellectual property and the quality of our solar panels. Any reduction in the supply of solar panels could impair our revenue by significantly delaying our ability to ship products and potentially damage our relationships with new and existing customers, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We act as the general contractor for many of our customers in connection with the installations of our solar power systems and are subject to risks associated with construction, cost overruns, delays and other contingencies tied to performance bonds and letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We act as the general contractor for many of our customers in connection with the installation of our solar power systems. All essential costs are estimated at the time of entering into the sales contract for a particular project, and these are reflected in the overall price that we charge our customers for the project. These cost estimates are preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the other project developers, subcontractors, suppliers and other parties to the project. In addition, we require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of our systems. Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Should miscalculations in planning a project or defective or late execution occur, we may not achieve our expected margins or cover our costs. Also, some customers require performance bonds issued by a bonding agency or letters of credit issued by financial institutions. Due to the general performance risk inherent in construction activities, it has become increasingly difficult recently to attain suitable bonding agencies willing to provide performance bonding. Obtaining letters of credit requires adequate collateral. In the event we are unable to obtain bonding or sufficient letters of credit, we will be unable to bid on, or enter into, sales contracts requiring such bonding. In addition, the contracts with some of our larger customers require that we would be obligated to pay substantial penalty payments for each day or other period a solar installation for any such customer is not completed beyond an agreed target date, up to and including the return of the entire project sale price. This is particularly true in Europe, where long-term, fixed feed-in tariffs available to investors are typically set during a prescribed period of project completion, but the fixed amount declines over time for projects completed in subsequent periods. We face material financial penalties in the event we fail to meet the completion deadlines, including but not limited a full refund of the contract price paid by the customers. In certain cases we do not control all of the events which could give rise to these penalties, such as reliance on the local utility to timely complete electrical substation construction. Furthermore, investors often require that the solar power system generate specified levels of electricity in order to maintain their investment returns, allocating substantial risk and financial penalties to us if those levels are not achieved, up to and including the return of the entire project sale price. Also, our customers often require protections in the form of conditional payments, payment retentions or holdbacks, and similar arrangements that condition its future payments on performance. Delays in solar panel or other supply shipments, other construction delays, unexpected performance problems in electricity generation or other events could cause us to fail to meet these performance criteria, resulting in unanticipated and severe revenue and earnings losses and financial penalties. Construction delays are often caused by inclement weather, failure to timely receive necessary approvals and permits, or delays in obtaining necessary solar panels, inverters or other materials. Additionally, we sometimes purchase land in connection with project development and assume the risk of project completion. All such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Acquisitions of other companies or investments in joint ventures with other companies could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and dilute our stockholders' equity. To increase our business and maintain our competitive position, we may acquire other companies or engage in joint ventures in the future. For example, in March 2010, we completed our acquisition of SunRay and in July 2010, we formed a joint venture with AUO to jointly own and operate our third solar cell manufacturing factory located in Malaysia. See also “If we are not successful in adding additional production lines through our joint venture in Malaysia, or we experience interruptions in the operation of our solar cell production lines, our revenue and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.” Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of risks that could harm our business and result in the acquired business or joint venture not performing as expected, including: • insufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the acquired business or joint venture is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and/or integrate the business or the joint venture;28Table of Contents • problems integrating the acquired operations, personnel, IT infrastructure, technologies or products with the existing business and products; • diversion of management time and attention from the core business to the acquired business or joint venture; • potential failure to retain or hire key technical, management, sales and other personnel of the acquired business or joint venture; • difficulties in retaining or building relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired business or joint venture, particularly where such customers or suppliers compete with us; • potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality and development or legal and financial liabilities, among other things; • potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent acquisitions or the successful operation of joint ventures; • potential necessity to re-apply for permits of acquired projects; • problems managing joint ventures with our partners, and reliance upon joint ventures which we do not control; for example, our ability to effectively manage our joint venture with AUO for the expansion of our manufacturing capacity; • subsequent impairment of the acquired assets, including intangible assets; and • assumption of liabilities including, but not limited to, lawsuits, tax examinations, warranty issues, and liabilities associated with compliance with laws (for example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act). Additionally, we may decide that it is in our best interests to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures that are dilutive to earnings per share or that negatively impact margins as a whole. In an effort to reduce our cost of goods sold, we have and may continue to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures involving suppliers or manufacturing partners, which would expose us to additional supply chain risks. Acquisitions or joint ventures could also require investment of significant financial resources and require us to obtain additional equity financing, which may dilute our stockholders' equity, or require us to incur additional indebtedness. Such equity or debt financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us. For example, we, along with AUO, have committed to funding the AUO SunPower Sdn. Bhd. joint venture $335 million from 2011 to 2014, and an additional $50 million if requested. In addition, we could in the future make additional investments in our joint ventures or guarantee certain financial obligations of our joint ventures, which could reduce our cash flows, increase our indebtedness and expose us to the credit risk of our joint ventures. To the extent that we invest in upstream suppliers or downstream channel capabilities, we may experience competition or channel conflict with certain of our existing and potential suppliers and customers. Specifically, existing and potential suppliers and customers may perceive that we are competing directly with them by virtue of such investments and may decide to reduce or eliminate their supply volume to us or order volume from us. In particular, any supply reductions from our polysilicon, ingot or wafer suppliers could materially reduce manufacturing volume. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We have significant sales globally, and we are exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates, primarily related to sales to European customers that are denominated in Euros. A depreciation of the Euro would adversely impact our margins on sales to European customers. When foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, inventories and expenses denominated in foreign currencies become more expensive. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our solar power products more expensive for international customers, thus potentially leading to a reduction in demand, our sales and profitability. As a result, substantial unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we seek to reduce our currency exposure by engaging in hedging transactions where we deem it appropriate, we do not know whether our efforts will be successful. Because we hedge some of our expected future foreign exchange exposure, if associated revenues do not materialize, we could experience losses. In the past, we have experienced an adverse impact on our revenue, gross margin, cash 29Table of Contentsposition and profitability as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. We are exposed to interest rate risk because many of our customers depend on debt financing to purchase our solar power systems. An increase in interest rates could make it difficult for our customers to obtain the financing necessary to purchase our solar power systems on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our solar power products, reduce revenue and adversely impact our operating results. An increase in interest rates could lower a customer's return on investment in a system or make alternative investments more attractive relative to solar power systems, which, in each case, could cause our customers to seek alternative investments that promise higher returns or demand higher returns from our solar power systems, which could reduce our revenue and gross margin and adversely impact our operating results. Our interest expense would increase to the extent interest rates rise in connection with our variable interest rate borrowings. In addition, lower interest rates has an adverse impact on our interest income. See also Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and “Risks Related to Our Sales Channels-The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our solar power plants and our customers, and is affected by general economic conditions.” We are exposed to the credit risk of our financial counterparties, customers and suppliers. We have certain financial and derivative instruments that subject us to credit risk. These consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash equivalents, investments, accounts receivable, note receivable, advances to suppliers, foreign currency option contracts, foreign currency forward contracts, bond hedge and warrant transactions, purchased options and share lending arrangements for our class A common stock. We are exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial and derivative instruments. For example, in connection with the bankruptcy of Lehman, the fair value of the 2.9 million shares of our class A common stock loaned and unreturned by an affiliate of Lehman at the time of the bankruptcy was $213.4 million, which was reflected in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 as a loss on our statement of operations. We enter into agreements with suppliers that specify future quantities and pricing of polysilicon to be supplied for periods up to 10 years. Under certain agreements, we are required to make significant prepayments to the vendors over the terms of the arrangements. We may be unable to recover such prepayments if the credit conditions of these suppliers materially deteriorate. In addition, we may not be able to collect from our customers in the event of the deterioration of their credit or if they enter into bankruptcy. Any of the preceding could materially and adversely impact our financial conditions, results of operations and liquidity. See also Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements. Our management is responsible for maintaining internal control over financial reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As previously disclosed under Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2010, we concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective based on certain material weaknesses identified in our Philippine operations. Management has actively engaged in efforts to remediate these material weaknesses, and concluded that as of January 2, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. See Part II - “Item 9A: Controls and Procedures.” A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The effectiveness of any controls and procedures is subject to certain limitations, and, as a result, there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will detect all errors or fraud. A control, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system will be attained. We also cannot assure you that new material weaknesses will not arise as a result of our past failure to maintain adequate internal controls and procedures or that circumvention of those controls and procedures will not occur. Additionally, even our improved controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify errors or irregularities or ensure that our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. A material weakness could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the expenses incurred in remediation could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as parties to various lawsuits relating to our past Philippines accounting issues, and may be named in further litigation, including with respect to the restatement of our consolidated financial statements, all of which could require significant management time and attention, result in significant legal expenses or damages, and cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows to 30Table of Contentssuffer. Three securities class action lawsuits were filed against our Company and certain of our current and former officers in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on behalf of a class consisting of those who acquired our securities from April 17, 2008, through November 16, 2009. The actions arise from our announcement on November 16, 2009, that our Audit Committee commenced an internal investigation regarding certain unsubstantiated accounting entries. The complaints allege that the defendants made material misstatements and omissions concerning our financial results for 2008 and 2009, seek an unspecified amount of damages, and allege violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933. These cases were consolidated under Case No. CV-09-5473-RS (N.D. Cal.). In addition, derivative actions purporting to be brought on our behalf have also been filed in state and federal courts against several of our current and former officers and directors based on the same events alleged in the securities class action lawsuits described above. The California state derivative complaints assert state-law claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, unjust enrichment, gross mismanagement, and waste of corporate assets. The federal derivative complaints assert state-law claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. The complaints seek an unspecified amount of damages. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. The matters which led to our Audit Committee's investigation and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. We and our current and former officers and directors may, in the future, be subject to additional private and governmental actions relating to such matters. Subject to certain limitations, we are obligated to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in connection with such lawsuits and governmental investigations and any related litigation or settlements amounts. Regardless of the outcome, these lawsuits, and any other litigation that may be brought against us or our current or former officers and directors, could be time-consuming, result in significant expense and divert the attention and resources of our management and other key employees. An unfavorable outcome in any of these matters could exceed coverage provided under potentially applicable insurance policies, which is limited. Any such unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, we could be required to pay damages or additional penalties or have other remedies imposed against us, or our current or former directors or officers, which could harm our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, our Company is largely self insured so that expenses, settlements or damages in excess of $5 million in these actions will not be recoverable under the primary coverage insurance policies. Moreover, such policies are subject to several terms, conditions and exclusions. See also “Risks Related to Our Liquidity - Because we self-insure for certain indemnities we have made to our officers and directors, potential claims could materially and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.” Our agreements with Cypress Semiconductor Corporation ("Cypress") require us to indemnify Cypress for certain tax liabilities. These indemnification obligations and related contractual restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain business initiatives. On October 6, 2005, while a subsidiary of Cypress, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Cypress providing for each party's obligations concerning various tax liabilities. The tax sharing agreement is structured such that Cypress would pay all federal, state, local and foreign taxes that are calculated on a consolidated or combined basis while we were a member of Cypress’s consolidated or combined group for federal, state, local and foreign tax purposes. Our portion of tax liabilities or benefits was determined based upon our separate return tax liability as defined under the tax sharing agreement. These tax liabilities or benefits were based on a pro forma calculation as if we were filing a separate income tax return in each jurisdiction, rather than on a combined or consolidated basis, subject to adjustments as set forth in the tax sharing agreement. On June 6, 2006, we ceased to be a member of Cypress’s consolidated group for federal income tax purposes and certain state income tax purposes. On September 29, 2008, we ceased to be a member of Cypress’s combined group for all state income tax purposes. To the extent that we become entitled to utilize our separate portion of any tax credit or loss carryforwards existing as of such date, we will distribute to Cypress the tax effect, estimated to be 40% for federal and state income tax purposes, of the amount of such tax loss carryforwards so utilized, and the amount of any credit carryforwards so utilized. We will distribute these amounts to Cypress in cash or in our shares, at Cypress’s option. As of January 2, 2011, we have a potential liability of approximately $2.2 million that may be due under this arrangement. In fiscal 2010 and 2009, we paid $0.7 million and $16.5 million, respectively, in cash to Cypress, of which zero and $15.1 million, respectively, represents the federal component and $0.7 million and $1.4 million, respectively, represents the state component. We will continue to be jointly and severally liable for any tax liability during all periods in which we are deemed to be a member of the Cypress consolidated or combined group. Accordingly, although the tax sharing agreement allocates tax liabilities between Cypress and all its consolidated subsidiaries, for any period in which we were included in Cypress’s 31Table of Contentsconsolidated or combined group, we could be liable in the event that any federal or state tax liability was incurred, but not discharged, by any other member of the group. We will continue to be jointly and severally liable to Cypress until the statute of limitations runs or all appeal options are exercised for all years in which we joined in the filing of tax returns with Cypress. If Cypress experiences adjustments to their tax liability pursuant to tax examinations, we may incur an incremental liability. In January 2010, Cypress was notified by the IRS that it intends to examine Cypress's corporate income tax filings for the tax years ended in 2006, 2007 and 2008. SunPower was included as part of Cypress's federal consolidated group in 2006 and part of 2007. As of January 2, 2011, Cypress has not notified us of any adjustments to the tax liabilities that have been proposed by the IRS. However, the IRS has not completed its examination and there can be no assurance that there will be no material adjustments upon completion of their review. Additionally, while years prior to fiscal 2006 for Cypress's U.S. corporate tax return are not open for assessment, the IRS can adjust net operating loss and research and development carryovers that were generated in prior years and carried forward to fiscal 2006 and subsequent years. If the IRS sustains tax assessments against Cypress, we may be obligated to indemnify Cypress under the terms of the tax sharing agreement. We would also be liable to Cypress for taxes that might arise from the distribution by Cypress of our class B common stock to Cypress's stockholders on September 29, 2008, or "spin-off". In connection with Cypress’s spin-off of our class B common stock, we and Cypress, on August 12, 2008, entered into an amendment to our tax sharing agreement (“Amended Tax Sharing Agreement”) to address certain transactions that may affect the tax treatment of the spin-off and certain other matters. Subject to certain caveats, Cypress obtained a ruling from the IRS to the effect that the distribution by Cypress of our class B common stock to Cypress's stockholders qualified as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Code”). Despite such ruling, the distribution may nonetheless be taxable to Cypress under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of the voting power or value of our stock was or is later acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the distribution of our stock. The Amended Tax Sharing Agreement requires us to indemnify Cypress for any liability incurred as a result of issuances or dispositions of our stock after the distribution, other than liability attributable to certain dispositions of our stock by Cypress, that cause Cypress’s distribution of shares of our stock to its stockholders to be taxable to Cypress under Section 355(e) of the Code. In addition, under the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement, we are required to provide notice to Cypress of certain transactions that could give rise to our indemnification obligation relating to taxes resulting from the application of Section 355(e) of the Code or similar provisions of other applicable law to the spin-off as a result of one or more acquisitions, as described in the agreement. We are not required to indemnify Cypress for any taxes which would result solely from issuances and dispositions of our stock prior to the spin-off and any acquisition of our stock by Cypress after the spin-off. Under the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement, we also agreed that, until October 29, 2010, we would not effect a conversion of any or all of our class B common stock to class A common stock or any similar recapitalization transaction or series of related transactions (a “Recapitalization”). In addition, we agreed that until October 29, 2010, we would not enter into or facilitate any other transaction resulting in an acquisition, as described in the agreement, of our stock without first obtaining the written consent of Cypress. As further detailed in the agreement, we are not required to obtain Cypress's consent unless such transactions would involve the acquisition for purposes of Section 355(e) of the Code after August 4, 2008 of more than 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, the requirement to obtain Cypress's consent does not apply to certain qualifying acquisitions of our stock, as defined in the agreement. Under the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement, we agreed that we would not (i) effect a Recapitalization during the 36 month period following the spin-off without first obtaining a tax opinion from a nationally recognized tax counsel, in form and in substance reasonably satisfactory to Cypress, to the effect that such Recapitalization (either alone or when taken together with any other transaction or transactions) will not cause the spin-off to become taxable under Section 355(e), or (ii) seek any private ruling, including any supplemental private ruling, from the IRS with regard to the spin-off, or any transaction having any bearing on the tax treatment of the spin-off, without the prior written consent of Cypress. Our headquarters and manufacturing facilities, as well as the facilities of certain subcontractors, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters, and climate change and climate change regulation could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our headquarters and research and development operations are located in California, and our manufacturing facilities 32Table of Contentsare located in the Philippines. The facilities of our joint venture for manufacturing and subcontractors for assembly and test of solar panels are located globally, including in Malaysia, China, Poland and Mexico. Any significant earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster in these countries could materially disrupt our management operations and/or our production capabilities, and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of our products and services. In addition, legislators, regulators, and non-governmental organizations, as well as companies in many business sectors, are considering ways to reduce green-house gas emissions. Regulation could be forthcoming at the federal or state level with respect to green-house gas emissions. Such regulation or similar regulations in other countries could result in regulatory or product standard requirements for our global business, including our manufacturing operations. Furthermore, the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations may include changes in weather patterns (including floods, tsunamis, drought and rainfall levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, and temperature levels. These potential physical effects may adversely impact the cost, production, sales and financial performance of our operations. We could be adversely affected by any violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and foreign anti-bribery laws. The U.S. FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Other countries in which we operate also have anti-bribery laws, some of which prohibit improper payments to government and non-government persons and entities. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, due to the level of regulation in our industry, our entry into new jurisdictions through internal growth or acquisitions requires substantial government contact where norms can differ from U.S. standards. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, our employees, subcontractors and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and anti-bribery laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could subject us to criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and reputation. We sell our solar products to agencies of the U.S. government, and as a result, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations, and our business could be adversely affected by an audit by the U.S. government if it were to identify errors or a failure to comply with regulations. We have sold and continue to sell our solar power systems to various U.S. government agencies. In connection with these contracts, we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. government contracts, which may impose added costs on our business. We are expected to perform in compliance with a vast array of federal laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Federal False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback Act of 1986, the Buy American Act and the Davis Bacon Act. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, reductions of the value of our contracts, contract modifications or termination, or suspension or debarment from government contracting for a period of time. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. government may terminate any of our government contracts either at its convenience or for default based on performance. A termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. U.S. government agencies may audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor's performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. We are required to comply with all foreign, U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding pollution control and protection of the environment. In addition, under some statutes and regulations, a government agency, or other parties, may seek recovery and response costs from operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are 33Table of Contentsongoing, even if the operator was not responsible for such release or otherwise at fault. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. In addition, if more stringent laws and regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new laws and regulations could be substantial. To date such laws and regulations have not had a significant impact on our operations, and we believe that we have all necessary permits to conduct operations as they are presently conducted. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws and regulations, however, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. In addition, new U.S. legislation includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of solar products. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all minerals used in our products. Our success depends on the continuing contributions of our key personnel. We rely heavily on the services of our key executive officers and the loss of services of any principal member of our management team could adversely impact our operations. In addition, we anticipate that we will need to hire a significant number of highly skilled technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing, administrative and accounting personnel. The competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to support our anticipated growth. We cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed with us for any definite period of time since all of our employees, including our key executive officers, serve at-will and may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. We may in the future be required to consolidate the assets, liabilities and financial results of certain of our existing or future joint ventures, which could have an adverse impact on our financial position, gross margin and operating results. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued accounting guidance regarding variable interest entities (“VIEs”) that affects our accounting treatment of our existing and future joint ventures. We have variable interests in Woongjin Energy Co., Ltd., First Philec Solar Corporation and our joint venture with AUO. To ascertain if we are required to consolidate these entities, we determine whether these entities are VIEs and if we are the primary beneficiary in accordance with the accounting guidance. Factors we consider in determining whether we are the VIE's primary beneficiary include the decision making authority of each partner, which partner manages the day-to-day operations of the joint venture and each partner's obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits from the joint venture in relation to that of the other partner. Changes in the financial accounting guidance, or changes in circumstances at each of these joint ventures, could lead us to determine that we have to consolidate the assets, liabilities and financial results of such joint ventures. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, gross margin and operating results. In addition, we may enter into future joint ventures or make other equity investments, which could have an adverse impact on us because of the financial accounting guidance regarding VIEs. We carry significant goodwill on our balance sheet, which is subject to impairment testing and could subject us to significant non-cash charges to earnings in the future if impairment occurs. We have completed strategic acquisitions which have increased our balance of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and the balance of goodwill may increase in the future if we complete acquisitions as part of our overall business strategy. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment annually. We conduct our annual review of the valuation of goodwill as of the Sunday closest to the end of the third fiscal quarter of each year, or more often if indicators of impairment exist. Triggering events for additional impairment review may include indicators such as adverse industry or economic trends, lower than projected operating results or cash flows, or a sustained decline in our stock price or market capitalization. Our stock price has declined significantly since mid-2008, which increases the risk of goodwill impairment if the price of our stock declines further. The evaluation of the fair value of goodwill involves valuation techniques which require significant management judgment. Should conditions be different from management's last impairment assessment, significant write-downs of goodwill may be required, which would result in a significant non-cash charge to earnings and lower stockholders' equity. From our prior annual goodwill impairment tests we concluded there was no impairment to goodwill; however, the triggering events described above associated with an event of impairment may require us to evaluate the fair value of goodwill prior to the next annual review.34Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Loss of government programs that partially fund our research and development programs would increase our research and development expenses. We selectively pursue contract research, product development and market development programs funded by various agencies of the federal and state governments to complement and enhance our own resources. Funding from government contracts is generally recorded as an offset to our research and development expense. These government agencies may not continue their commitment to programs relevant to our development projects. Moreover, we may not be able to compete successfully to obtain funding through these or other programs, and generally government agencies may unilaterally terminate or modify such agreements. A reduction or discontinuance of these programs, or of our participation in these programs, would increase our research and development expenses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and could impair our ability to develop competitive solar power products and services. Our reliance on government programs to partially fund our research and development programs could impair our ability to commercialize our solar power products and services. Government funding of some of our research and development efforts imposes certain restrictions on our ability to commercialize results and may grant commercialization rights to the government. In some funding awards, the government is entitled to intellectual property rights arising from the related research. Such rights could include a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced each subject invention developed under an award throughout the world by or on behalf of the government, or the right to require us to grant a license to the developed technology or products to a third party or, if we refuse, the government may grant the license itself, if the government determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the technology, or because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations, or to give the United States industry preference. Accepting government funding can also require that manufacturing of products developed with federal funding be conducted in the United States. We are dependent on our intellectual property, and we may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could result in the loss of significant rights. From time to time, we, our respective customers or third parties with whom we work may receive letters, including letters from various industry participants, alleging infringement of their patents. Although we are not currently aware of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure investors that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Additionally, we are required by contract to indemnify some of our customers and our third-party intellectual property providers for certain costs and damages of patent infringement in circumstances where our products are a factor creating the customer’s or these third-party providers’ infringement liability. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers and our third-party providers. We cannot assure investors that indemnification claims will not be made or that these claims will not harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Intellectual property litigation is very expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, our customers or our third-party intellectual property providers, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the International Trade Commission that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of our solar products. Any of these judgments could materially damage our business. We may have to develop non-infringing technology, and our failure in doing so or in obtaining licenses to the proprietary rights on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have filed, and may continue to file, claims against other parties for infringing our intellectual property that may be very costly and may not be resolved in our favor. To protect our intellectual property rights and to maintain our competitive advantage, we have, and may continue to, file suits against parties who we believe infringe our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, and our enforcement efforts may not be successful. In addition, the validity of our patents may be challenged in such litigation. Our participation in intellectual property enforcement actions may negatively impact our financial results.35Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from using the term SunPower or similar terms in connection with their solar power products which could adversely affect the market recognition of our name and our revenue. “SunPower” is our registered trademark in certain countries, including the United States, for use with solar cells and solar panels. We are seeking similar registration of the “SunPower” trademark in other countries but we may not be successful in some of these jurisdictions. We hold registered trademarks for SunPower®, PowerLight®, PowerGuard®, PowerTracker® and SunTile®, in certain countries, including the United States. We have not registered, and may not be able to register, these trademarks in other key countries. In the foreign jurisdictions where we are unable to obtain or have not tried to obtain registrations, others may be able to sell their products using trademarks compromising or incorporating “SunPower,” or our other chosen brands, which could lead to customer confusion. In addition, if there are jurisdictions where another proprietor has already established trademark rights in marks containing “SunPower,” or our other chosen brands, we may face trademark disputes and may have to market our products with other trademarks, which may undermine our marketing efforts. We may encounter trademark disputes with companies using marks which are confusingly similar to the SunPower mark, or our other marks, which if not resolved favorably could cause our branding efforts to suffer. In addition, we may have difficulty in establishing strong brand recognition with consumers if others use similar marks for similar products. We rely substantially upon trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights, and, if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenue could suffer. We seek to protect our proprietary manufacturing processes, documentation and other written materials primarily under trade secret and copyright laws. We also typically require employees, consultants, and third parties such as our vendors and customers, with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • people may not be deterred from misappropriating our technologies despite the existence of laws or contracts prohibiting it; • policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use; • the laws of other countries in which we market our solar products, such as some countries in the Asia/Pacific region, may offer little or no protection for our proprietary technologies; and • reports we file in connection with government-sponsored research contracts are generally available to the public and third parties may obtain some aspects of our sensitive confidential information. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without compensating us for doing so. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights could harm our ability to compete, to generate revenue and to grow our business. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection on the technology embodied in the solar products we currently manufacture and market, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Although we substantially rely on trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect the technology in the solar products we currently manufacture and market, our success and ability to compete in the future may also depend to a significant degree upon obtaining patent protection for our proprietary technology. We currently own multiple patents and patent applications which cover aspects of the technology in the solar cells and mounting systems that we currently manufacture and market. Material patents that relate to our systems products and services primarily relate to our rooftop mounting products and ground-mounted tracking products. We intend to continue to seek patent protection for those aspects of our technology, designs, and methodologies and processes that we believe provide significant competitive advantages. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if they result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we seek or we may have to refile patent applications due to newly discovered prior art. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable, or even if we obtain an award of damages for infringement by a third party, such award could prove insufficient to compensate for all damages incurred as a result of such infringement. The term of any issued patents would be 20 years from their filing date and if our applications are pending for a long time period, we may have a correspondingly shorter term for any patent that may issue. Our present and future patents 36Table of Contentsmay provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could develop similar or more advantageous technologies on their own or design around our patents. Also, patent protection in certain foreign countries may not be available or may be limited in scope and any patents obtained may not be as readily enforceable as in the United States, making it difficult for us to effectively protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. Our inability to obtain and enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Risks Related to Our Debt and Equity Securities Conversion of our outstanding 1.25% and 4.75% debentures, our warrants related to our outstanding 4.50% and 4.75% debentures, and future substantial issuances or dispositions of our class A or class B common stock or other securities, could dilute ownership and earnings per share or cause the market price of our stock to decrease. To the extent we issue class A common stock upon conversion of our outstanding 1.25% and 4.75% debentures, the conversion of some or all of such debentures will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. Any sales in the public market of the class A and class B common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our class A and class B common stock. Sales of our class A or class B common stock in the public market or sales of any of our other securities could dilute ownership and earnings per share, and even the perception that such sales could occur could cause the market prices of our class A and class B common stock to decline. In addition, the existence of our outstanding debentures may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants who expect that the conversion of the debentures could depress the prices of our class A and class B common stock. We issued warrants to affiliates of the underwriters of our 4.50% and 4.75% debentures, which are exercisable for a total of approximately 11.1 million shares and 8.7 million shares of our class A common stock, respectively. The warrants, together with certain convertible hedge transactions, are meant to reduce our exposure upon potential conversion of our 4.50% and 4.75% debentures. If the market price of our class A common stock exceeds the respective exercise prices of the warrants, such warrants will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, and could dilute the ownership interests for existing stockholders if exercised. Approximately 4.7 million shares of class A common stock were lent to underwriters of our 1.25% and 0.75% debenture offerings, including approximately 2.9 million shares lent to Lehman Brothers International (Europe) Limited (“LBIE”) and approximately 1.8 million shares lent to Credit Suisse International (“CSI”). Such shares were lent to facilitate later hedging arrangements of future purchases for debentures in the after-market. Shares still held by CSI may be freely sold into the market at any time, and such sales could depress our stock price. In addition, any hedging activity facilitated by our debenture underwriters would involve short sales or privately negotiated derivatives transactions. Due to the September 15, 2008 bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. (“Lehman”) and commencement of administrative proceedings for LBIE in the U.K., we recorded the shares lent to LBIE as issued and outstanding as of September 15, 2008, for the purpose of computing and reporting basic and diluted earnings per share. If Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC or its affiliates, including CSI, were to file bankruptcy or commence similar administrative, liquidating, restructuring or other proceedings, we may have to consider approximately 1.8 million shares lent to CSI as issued and outstanding for purposes of calculating earnings per share which would further dilute our earnings per share. These or other similar transactions could further negatively affect our stock price. The price of our class A common stock, and therefore of our outstanding 0.75%, 1.25%, 4.50% and 4.75% debentures, as well as our class B common stock, may fluctuate significantly. Our class A and class B common stock have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The trading price of our class A and class B common stock could be subject to further wide fluctuations due to many factors, including the factors discussed in this risk factors section. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Select Market and the securities of technology companies and solar companies in particular, have experienced severe price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations, including our own market valuation and those of companies in our industry generally, may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our class A and class B common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Because the 0.75%, 1.25%, 4.50% and 4.75% debentures are convertible into our class A common stock (and/or cash equivalent to the value of our class A common stock), volatility or depressed prices of our class A common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of these debentures. Differences in trading history, liquidity, voting rights and other factors may continue to result in different market prices for 37Table of Contentsshares of our class A and our class B common stock. The class A and class B common stocks continue to maintain different trading histories, liquidity, and voting rights. Our class B common stock has consistently maintained lower trading prices and liquidity compared to the class A common stock following our spin-off from Cypress on September 28, 2008. This may be caused by the lack of a long trading history and lower trading volume of the class B common stock, compared to the class A common stock, as well as other factors. In addition, the class B common stock is entitled to eight votes per share and the class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Additionally, our restated certificate of incorporation imposes certain limitations on the rights of holders of class B common stock to vote the full number of their shares. The difference in the voting rights of our class A and class B common stock could reduce the value of our class A common stock to the extent that any investor or potential future purchaser of our common stock ascribes value to the right of our class B common stock to eight votes per share. These and other factors could lead to ongoing differences in market values between our class A and our class B common stock. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain anti-takeover provisions, our outstanding 0.75%, 1.25%, 4.50% and 4.75% debentures provide for a right to convert upon certain events, and our Board of Directors entered into a rights agreement and declared a rights dividend, any of which could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the Board of Directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the Board of Directors; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to approximately 10.0 million shares of preferred stock with terms set by the Board of Directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • our Board of Directors is divided into three classes of directors, with the classes to be as nearly equal in number as possible; • no action can be taken by stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders called in accordance with our bylaws, and stockholders may not act by written consent; • stockholders may not call special meetings of the stockholders; • limitations on the voting rights of our stockholders with more than 15% of our class B common stock; and • our Board of Directors is able to alter our by-laws without obtaining stockholder approval. Certain provisions of our outstanding debentures could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of our outstanding debentures will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase, at a cash repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest on the debentures, all or a portion of their debentures. We may also be required to issue additional shares of our class A common stock upon conversion of such debentures in the event of certain fundamental changes. In addition, on August 12, 2008, we entered into a Rights Agreement with Computershare Trust Company, N.A. and our Board of Directors declared an accompanying rights dividend. The Rights Agreement became effective upon completion of Cypress’ spin-off of our shares of class B common stock to the holders of Cypress common stock. The Rights Agreement contains specific features designed to address the potential for an acquirer or significant investor to take advantage of our capital structure and unfairly discriminate between classes of our common stock. Specifically, the Rights Agreement is designed to address the inequities that could result if an investor, by acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding shares of class B common stock, were able to gain significant voting influence over our Company without making a correspondingly significant economic investment. The rights dividend and Rights Agreement, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable.38Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 