Risk Factors” including “– Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products and services.” Environmental Regulations We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development, manufacturing and construction activities. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local governmental laws and regulations related to the purchase, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials. We believe that we have all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business and expect to obtain all necessary environmental permits for FAB3 and future construction activities. We believe that we have properly handled our hazardous materials and wastes and have appropriately remediated any contamination at any of our premises. We are not aware of any pending or threatened environmental investigation, proceeding or action by foreign, federal, state or local agencies, or third-parties involving our current facilities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to substantial financial liabilities, operational interruptions and adverse publicity, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Employees As of December 28, 2008, we had approximately 5,400 employees worldwide, including approximately 540 employees located in the United States, 4,710 employees located in the Philippines and 150 employees located in other countries. Of these employees, approximately 4,460 were engaged in manufacturing, 150 employees in construction projects, 150 employees in research and development, 470 employees in sales and marketing and 170 employees in general and administrative. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced a work stoppage and we believe relations with our employees are good. Available Information We make available our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 free of charge on our website at www.sunpowercorp.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Additionally, copies of materials filed by us with the SEC may be accessed at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. or at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. For information about the SEC’s Public Reference Room, the public may contact 1-800-SEC-0330. Copies of material filed by us with the SEC may also be obtained by writing to us at our corporate headquarters, SunPower Corporation, Attention: Investor Relations, 3939 North First Street, San Jose, California 95134, or by calling (408) 240-5500. The contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as a part of, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. - 10 - - Table of Contents ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including risks related to our supply chain, sales channels including availability of project financing, liquidity, operations, intellectual property, and our debt and equity securities. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and trading price of our class A and class B common stock as well as our 1.25% debentures and 0.75% debentures. Risks Related to Our Supply Chain We will continue to be dependent on a limited number of third-party suppliers for certain raw materials and components for our products, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which could result in sales and installation delays, cancellations, liquidated damages and loss of market share. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for certain raw materials and components for our solar cells and power systems such as polysilicon and inverters. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with our limited suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products or our products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes and we may experience order cancellation and loss of market share. To the extent the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative suppliers. In addition, the current economic environment and credit markets could limit our suppliers’ ability to raise capital if required to expand their production or satisfy their operating capital requirements. As a result, they could be unable to supply necessary raw materials, inventory and capital equipment to us which we would require to support our planned sales operations which would in turn negatively impact our sales volumes and cash flows. The failure of a supplier to supply raw materials or components in a timely manner, or to supply raw materials or components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements, could impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase their costs. If we cannot obtain substitute materials or components on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which could result in sales and installation delays, cancellations, liquidated damages and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As polysilicon supply increases, the corresponding increase in the global supply of solar cells and panels may cause substantial downward pressure on the prices of such products, resulting in lower revenues and earnings. The scarcity of polysilicon during the past few years has resulted in the underutilization of solar panel manufacturing capacity at many competitors or potential competitors, particularly in China. If additional polysilicon becomes available in the market over the next two years, solar panel production globally could increase. Decreases in polysilicon pricing and increases in solar panel production could each result in substantial downward pressure on the price of solar cells and panels, including SunPower products. Such price reductions could have a negative impact on our revenue and earnings, and materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Limited competition among suppliers has required us in some instances to enter into long-term, firm commitment supply agreements that could result in excess or insufficient inventory and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Due to the industry-wide shortage of polysilicon experienced during the past few years, we have purchased polysilicon that we resell to third-party ingot and wafer manufacturers who deliver wafers to us that we then use in the manufacturing of our solar cells. Without sufficient polysilicon, some of those ingot and wafer manufacturers would not be able to produce the wafers on which we rely. To match our estimated customer demand forecasts and growth strategy for the next several years, we have entered into multiple long-term supply agreements. Some agreements provide for fixed or inflation-adjusted pricing, substantial prepayment obligations, and firm purchase commitments that require us to pay for the supply whether or not we accept delivery. If such agreements require us to purchase more polysilicon, ingots or wafers than required to meet our actual customer demand over time, the resulting excess inventory could materially and negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, if the prices under our long-term supply agreements result in our paying more for such supplies than the current market prices available to our competitors, we may also be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and our revenues could decline. However, if our agreements provide insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, or if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with the contracted quantities, we may purchase additional supply at available market prices which could be greater than expected and could materially and negatively impact our results of operations. Such market prices could also be greater than prices paid by our competitors, placing us at a competitive disadvantage and leading to a decline in our revenue. Further, we face significant specific counterparty risk under long-term supply agreements when dealing with suppliers without a long, stable production and financial history. In the event any such supplier experiences financial difficulties, it may be difficult or impossible, or may require substantial time and expense, for us to recover any or all of our prepayments. Any of the foregoing could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. - 11 - - Table of Contents If third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to sell their solar cells and panels to us as a direct competitor in some markets, our business and results of operations may be materially negatively affected. We plan to purchase a portion of our total product mix from third-party manufacturers of solar cells and panels. Such products increase our inventory available for sale to systems customers in some markets. However, such manufacturers may be our direct competitors. If they are unable or unwilling to sell to us, we may not have sufficient products available to sell to systems customers and satisfy our sales commitments, thereby materially and negatively affecting our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Sales Channels The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our customers, and is affected by general economic conditions. The general economy and limited availability of credit and liquidity could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Many purchasers of our systems projects have entered into third-party arrangements to finance their systems over an extended period of time while many end-customers have chosen to purchase solar electricity under a power purchase agreement, or PPA, with a financing company that purchases the system from us or our authorized dealers. In addition, under our power purchase business model, we often execute PPAs directly with the end-user customer purchasing solar electricity, with the expectation that we will later assign the PPA to a financier. Under such arrangements, the financier separately contracts with us to build and acquire the solar system, and then sells the electricity to the end-user customer under the assigned PPA. When executing PPAs with the end-user customers, we seek to mitigate the risk that a financier will not be available for the project by allowing termination of the PPA in such event without penalty. However, we may not always be successful in negotiating for penalty-free termination rights for failure to secure financing, and certain end-user customers have required substantial financial penalties in exchange for such rights. These structured finance arrangements are complex and may not be feasible in many situations. Due to the general reduction in available credit to would-be borrowers and the poor state of economies worldwide, customers may be unable or unwilling to finance the cost of our products, or the parties that have historically provided this financing may cease to do so, or only do so on terms that are substantially less favorable for us or our customers, any of which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and growth in all segments of our business. If economic recovery is slow in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our solar power products, which may harm our operating results. In addition, a rise in interest rates would likely increase our customers’ cost of financing our products and could reduce their profits and expected returns on investment in our products. Similarly, the general reduction in available credit to would-be borrowers, the poor state of economies worldwide, and the condition of housing markets worldwide, could delay or reduce our sales of products to new homebuilders and authorized resellers. Collecting payment from customers facing liquidity challenges may also be difficult. The reduction, modification or elimination of government and economic incentives could cause our revenue to decline and harm our financial results. The market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network or sold to a utility under tariff, depends in large part on the availability and size of government mandates and economic incentives because, at present, the cost of solar power exceeds retail electric rates in many locations. Such incentives vary by geographic market. Various government bodies in many countries, most notably Spain, the United States, Germany, Italy, South Korea, Canada, Japan, Portugal, Greece, France and Australia, have provided incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax credits, renewable portfolio standards, and other incentives and mandates to end-users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Some of these government mandates and economic incentives are scheduled to be reduced or to expire, or could be eliminated altogether. Because our sales are into the on-grid market, the reduction, modification or elimination of government mandates and economic incentives in one or more of our customer markets would materially and adversely affect the growth of such markets or result in increased price competition, either of which could cause our revenue to decline and harm our financial results. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products and services. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry in the U.S. and abroad, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation, and could deter further investment in the research and development of alternative energy sources as well as customer purchases of solar power technology, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will continue to be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance - 12 - - with federal, state and local regulations relating to construction, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering, and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new regulations or policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us, our resellers and resellers’ customers, which could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. We may incur unexpected warranty and product liability claims that could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In our Components Segment, our current standard product warranty for our solar panels includes a 10-year warranty period for defects in materials and workmanship and a 20-year warranty period for declines in power performance as well as a one-year warranty on the functionality of our solar cells. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenue. Although we conduct accelerated testing of our solar cells and have several years of experience with our all-back-contact cell architecture, our solar panels have not and cannot be tested in an environment simulating the 20-year warranty period and it is difficult to test for all conditions that may occur in the field. We have sold solar cells since late 2004. In our Systems Segment, our current standard warranty for our solar power systems differs by geography and end-customer application and includes either a 1-, 2- or 5-year comprehensive parts and workmanship warranty, after which the customer may typically extend the period covered by its warranty for an additional fee. While we generally pass through manufacturer warranties we receive from our suppliers to our customers, we are responsible for repairing or replacing any defective parts during our warranty period, often including those covered by manufacturers’ warranties. If the manufacturer disputes or otherwise fails to honor its warranty obligations, we may be required to incur substantial costs before we are compensated, if at all, by the manufacturer. Furthermore, our warranties may exceed the period of any warranties from our suppliers covering components, such as inverters, included in our systems. Due to the long warranty period, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have completed a project and recognized revenues. Any increase in the defect rate of our products would cause us to increase the amount of warranty reserves and have a corresponding negative impact on our results of operations. Further, potential future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products, and we have agreed to indemnify our customers and our distributors in some circumstances against liability from defects in our solar cells. A successful indemnification claim against us could require us to make significant damage payments. Repair and replacement costs, as well as successful indemnification claims, could materially and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Like other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products that are used by customers, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products into which our solar cells and solar panels are incorporated results in injury. We may be subject to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our solar power systems fail to perform as expected or if a failure of our solar power systems results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage or other damages. Since our solar power products are electricity producing devices, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. In addition, since we only began selling our solar cells and solar panels in late 2004 and the products we are developing incorporate new technologies and use new installation methods, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. We have evaluated the potential risks we face and believe that we have appropriate levels of insurance for product liability claims. We rely on our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product liability insurance. However, a successful warranty or product liability claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages. In addition, quality issues can have various other ramifications, including delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue, loss of future sales opportunities, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and reputation, which could also adversely affect our business and operating results. If we fail to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products and services, we may not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency and higher power output and improved aesthetics. Technologies developed by our direct competitors, including thin film solar panels, concentrating solar cells, solar thermal electric and other solar technologies, may provide power at lower costs than our products. We also face competition in some markets from other power generation sources, including conventional fossil fuels, wind, biomass, and hydro. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. This will require us to continuously develop new solar power products and enhancements for existing solar power products to keep pace with evolving industry standards, competitive pricing and changing customer requirements. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into our products, we will face risks relating to such transitions - 13 - - including, among other things, technical challenges, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects arising from the integration of new technology and a potentially different sales and support environment relating to any new technology. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into our products could adversely affect our business’ operating results and financial condition. A limited number of customers are expected to continue to comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenue from these customers could have a significant adverse effect on us. Even though we expect our customer base to increase and our revenue streams to diversify, a substantial portion of our net revenues could continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers and the loss of sales to or inability to collect from these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. Our agreements with these customers may be cancelled if we fail to meet certain product specifications or materially breach the agreement or in the event of bankruptcy, and our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. In addition, the failure by any significant customer to pay for orders, whether due to liquidity issues or otherwise, could materially and negatively affect our results of operations. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our customers and accordingly could lose customers without warning, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. In our Components Segment, our solar cells and solar panel products are generally not sold pursuant to long-term agreements with customers, but instead are sold on a purchase order basis. In our Systems Segment, we typically contract to perform large projects with no assurance of repeat business from the same customers in the future. Although we believe that cancellations on our purchase orders to date have been insignificant, our customers may cancel or reschedule purchase orders with us on relatively short notice. Cancellations or rescheduling of customer orders could result in the delay or loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce, or delay the incurrence of, our corresponding inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from these or other customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These circumstances, in addition to the completion and non-repetition of large systems projects, variations in average selling prices, changes in the relative mix of sales of components versus system products, and the fact that our supply agreements are generally long-term in nature and many of our other operating costs are fixed, in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate and may result in a material adverse effect in our business. Our Systems Segment could be adversely affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles. Our Systems Segment is subject to significant industry-specific seasonal fluctuations. Its sales have historically reflected these seasonal trends with the largest percentage of total revenues being realized during the last two calendar quarters. Low seasonal demand normally results in reduced shipments and revenues in the first two calendar quarters. There are various reasons for this seasonality, mostly related to economic incentives and weather patterns. For example, in European countries with feed-in tariffs, the construction of solar power systems may be concentrated during the second half of the calendar year, largely due to the annual reduction of the applicable minimum feed-in tariff and the fact that the coldest winter months are January through March. In the United States, customers will sometimes make purchasing decisions towards the end of the year in order to take advantage of tax credits or for other budgetary reasons. In addition, sales in the new home development market are often tied to construction market demands which tend to follow national trends in construction, including declining sales during cold weather months. The competitive environment in which our systems business operates often requires us to undertake post-sale customer obligations, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations if our post-sale customer obligations are more costly than expected. We are often required as a condition of financing or at the request of our end customer to undertake certain post-sale obligations such as: • System output performance guaranties; • System maintenance; • Liquidated damage payments or customer termination rights if the system we are constructing is not commissioned within specified timeframes or other construction milestones are not achieved; • Guaranties of certain minimum residual value of the system at specified future dates; and • System put-rights whereby we could be required to buy-back a customer’s system at fair value on specified future dates. - 14 - - Table of Contents Such financing arrangements and post-sale obligations involve complex accounting analyses and judgments regarding the timing of revenue and expense recognition and in certain situations these factors may require us to defer revenue recognition until projects are completed, which could adversely affect revenue and profits in a particular period. Risks Related to Our Liquidity Due to the general economic environment and other factors, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing necessary to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments as planned. We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future. To develop new products, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and process technology. We also anticipate increased costs as we expand our manufacturing operations, hire additional personnel, pay more or make advance payments for raw material, especially polysilicon, increase our sales and marketing efforts, invest in joint ventures and acquisitions, and continue our research and development efforts with respect to our products and manufacturing technologies. We expect total capital expenditures in the range of $350 million to $400 million in 2009 as we continue to increase our solar cell and solar panel manufacturing capacity. These expenditures could be greater if we decide to bring capacity on line more rapidly. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, funds available under our facility agreement with the Malaysian government, and, if necessary, borrowings under our credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., or Wells Fargo, and/or potential availability of future sources of funding will be sufficient to fund our capital and operating expenditures over the next 12 months. The uncollateralized revolving credit line and uncollateralized letter of credit subfeature of the Wells Fargo credit agreement are scheduled to expire on July 3, 2009, and we are negotiating another amendment to further extend the expiration date. If we do not agree to amend the credit agreement to futher extend the deadline, all borrowings under the uncollateralized revolving credit line must be repaid by July 3, 2009, and all letters of credit issued under the uncollateralized letter of credit subfeature expire on or before July 3, 2009 unless we provide by such date collateral in the form of cash or cash equivalents in the aggregate amount available to be drawn under letters of credit outstanding at such time. Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on the volume of components sold and systems installed, average selling prices, per unit manufacturing costs and other operating costs. However, if our financial results or operating plans change from our current assumptions, or if the holders of our outstanding convertible debentures elect to convert the debentures into cash or cash and shares of class A common stock, we may not have sufficient resources to support our business plan or pay cash in connection with the redemption of outstanding debentures. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing; although, the current economic environment could also limit our ability to raise capital by issuing new equity or debt securities on acceptable terms, and lenders may be unwilling to lend funds on acceptable terms that would be required to supplement cash flows to support operations. Further, following the spin-off of our shares by Cypress on September 29, 2008, our ability to issue equity for financing purposes is subject to limits as described in “Our agreements with Cypress require us to indemnify Cypress for certain tax liabilities. These indemnification obligations and related contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, participate in future acquisitions or pursue other business initiatives.” We may also seek to sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or refinance or restructure our debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows, find other sources of capital or access capital markets to fund our operations and projects, make adequate capital investments to remain competitive in terms of technology development and cost efficiency. If adequate funds and alternative resources are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, maintain our research and development efforts or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. Our inability to do the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If the recent credit market conditions continue or worsen, they could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. During fiscal 2008, the net asset value of the Reserve Primary Fund and the Reserve International Liquidity Fund fell below $1.00. We had $8.2 million invested in the Reserve Funds on December 28, 2008, and we have estimated our loss to be approximately $1.0 million based on an evaluation of the fair value of the securities held by the Reserve Funds and the net asset value that was last published by the Reserve Funds before the funds suspended redemptions. While we expect to receive substantially all of our current holdings in the Reserve Funds within the next nine months, it is possible we may encounter difficulties in receiving distributions given the current credit market conditions. If market conditions were to deteriorate even further such that the current fair value were not achievable, we could realize additional losses in our holdings with the Reserve Funds and distributions could be further delayed. There can be no assurance that our other investments, particularly in this unfavorable market and economic environment, will not face similar risks of loss. Additionally, beginning in February 2008, the auction rate securities market experienced a significant increase in the number of failed auctions, resulting from a lack of liquidity, which occurs when sell orders exceed buy orders, and does not necessarily signify a default by the issuer. Of the $26.1 million invested in auction rate securities on December 28, 2008, we have estimated the loss to be approximately $2.5 million and we recorded an impairment charge of $2.5 million in “Other, net” in our - 15 - - Consolidated Statements of Operations thereby establishing a new cost basis of $23.6 million for the auction rate securities. All five auction rate securities invested in at December 28, 2008 have failed to clear at auctions. For failed auctions, we continue to earn interest on these investments at the maximum contractual rate as the issuer is obligated under contractual terms to pay penalty rates should auctions fail. Even if we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction is successful, the issuer redeems the securities, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the securities mature. If these auction rate securities are unable to successfully clear at future auctions or issuers do not redeem the securities, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the securities and record an impairment charge which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If our investment portfolio decreases in value or if we are unable to access funds held as auction rate securities, we may have insufficient liquidity to fund our planned operations and capital requirements, which may materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our current tax holidays in the Philippines will expire within the next several years. We currently benefit from income tax holiday incentives in the Philippines in accordance with our subsidiary’s registration with the Philippine Economic Zone Authority, which provide that we pay no income tax in the Philippines. Our current income tax holidays expire within the next several years beginning in 2010, and we intend to apply for extensions and renewals upon expiration. However, these tax holidays may or may not be extended. We believe that as our Philippine tax holidays expire, (a) gross income attributable to activities covered by our Philippine Economic Zone Authority registrations will be taxed at a 5% preferential rate, and (b) our Philippine net income attributable to all other activities will be taxed at the statutory Philippine corporate income tax rate, currently 32%. An increase in our tax liability could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because we self-insure for certain indemnities we have made to our officers and directors, potential claims could materially and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. We primarily self-insure with respect to potential indemnifiable claims. Although we have insured our officers and directors against certain potential third-party claims for which we are legally or financially unable to indemnify them, we intend to primarily self-insure with respect to potential third-party claims which give rise to direct liability to such third-party or an indemnification duty on our part. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our substantial indebtedness and other contractual commitments could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as our ability to meet any of our payment obligations under the debentures and our other debt. We currently have a significant amount of debt and debt service requirements that could have material consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the debentures and our other outstanding debt; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including borrowings under our new credit facility; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the debentures and our other debt. In addition, we also have significant contractual commitments for the purchase of polysilicon, some of which involve prepayments, and we may enter into additional, similar long-term supply agreements in the future. Further, if the holders of our outstanding debentures convert their debentures, the principal amount must be settled in cash and to the extent that the conversion obligation exceeds the principal amount of any - 16 - - debentures converted, we must satisfy the remaining conversion obligation of the 1.25% debentures in shares of our class A common stock, and we maintain the right to satisfy the remaining conversion obligation of the 0.75% debentures in shares of our class A common stock or cash. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, holders of $1.4 million in aggregate principal amount of the 1.25% debentures converted their debentures. Future conversions could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt. Our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. We may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, and obtain additional financing, if needed because our credit agreement with Wells Fargo and facility agreement with the Government of Malaysia contain, and any of our other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; • create liens; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • sell certain assets; • redeem capital stock or make other restricted payments; • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and • merge or consolidate with any person. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the debentures and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. Risks Related to Our Operations We may not be able to increase or sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. We may not be able to continue to expand our business or manage future growth. We plan to significantly increase our production capacity between 2009 and 2010, which will require successful execution of • expanding our existing manufacturing facilities and developing new manufacturing facilities, which would increase our fixed costs and, if such facilities are underutilized, would negatively impact our results of operations; • ensuring delivery of adequate polysilicon and ingots; • developing more efficient wafer-slicing methods; • enhancing our customer resource management and manufacturing management systems; • implementing and improving additional and existing administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls, including the need to update and integrate our financial internal control systems in SP Systems and in our Philippines facility with those of our San Jose, California headquarters; • hiring additional employees; • expanding and upgrading our technological capabilities; • manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third-parties; • maintaining adequate liquidity and financial resources; and • continuing to increase our revenues from operations. - 17 - - Table of Contents Our recent expansion has placed, and our planned expansion and any other future expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. Expanding our manufacturing facilities or developing facilities may be delayed by difficulties such as unavailability of equipment or supplies or equipment malfunction. Ensuring delivery of adequate polysilicon and ingots is subject to many market risks including scarcity, significant price fluctuations and competition. Maintaining adequate liquidity is dependent upon a variety of factors including continued revenues from operations and compliance with our indentures and credit agreements. In addition, following the spin-off of our shares by Cypress on September 29, 2008, our ability to issue equity for financing purposes will be restricted by our tax sharing agreement with Cypress. If we are unsuccessful in any of these areas, we may not be able to achieve our growth strategy and increase production capacity as planned during the foreseeable future. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new solar cells and other products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. We have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue these efforts, which subject us to additional business risks, including logistical complexity and political instability. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, a substantial portion of our sales was made to customers outside of the United States, and a substantial portion of our supply agreements is with supply and equipment vendors located outside of the United States. Historically, we have had significant sales in Austria, Germany, Italy, Spain and South Korea. Currently our solar cell production lines are located at our manufacturing facilities in the Philippines, and we plan to construct another manufacturing facility in Malaysia. In addition, a majority of our assembly functions have historically been conducted by a third-party subcontractor in China. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other government approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations as well as cultural differences; • potentially adverse tax consequences associated with our permanent establishment of operations in more countries; • relatively uncertain legal systems, including potentially limited protection for intellectual property rights, and laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in certain countries or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies; • inadequate local infrastructure and developing telecommunications infrastructures; • financial risks, such as longer sales and payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • currency fluctuations and government-fixed foreign exchange rates and the effects of currency hedging activity or inability to hedge currency fluctuations; and • political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions. If we are unable to successfully manage any such risks, any one or more could materially and negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations and are inherently unpredictable. To maintain our profitability, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We do not know if our revenue will grow, or if it will grow sufficiently to outpace our expenses, which we expect to increase as we expand our manufacturing capacity. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. Our quarterly revenue and operating results will be difficult to predict and have in the past fluctuated from quarter to quarter. In particular, our Systems Segment is difficult to forecast and is susceptible to large fluctuations in financial results. The amount, timing and mix of sales of our Systems Segment, often for a single medium or large-scale project, may cause large fluctuations in our revenue and other financial results. Further, our revenue mix of high margin material sales versus lower margin projects in the Systems Segment can fluctuate dramatically quarter to quarter, which may adversely affect our revenue and financial results in any given period. Finally, our ability to meet project completion schedules for an individual project and the corresponding revenue impact under the percentage-of-completion method of recognizing revenue, may similarly cause large fluctuations in our revenue and other financial results. This may cause us to miss any future guidance announced by us. - 18 - - Table of Contents We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses will be fixed in the short-term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. This may cause us to miss any guidance announced by us. If we experience interruptions in the operation of our solar cell production lines or are unable to add additional production lines, it would likely result in lower revenue and earnings than anticipated. We currently have twelve solar cell manufacturing lines in production which are located at our manufacturing facilities in the Philippines. If our current or future production lines were to experience any problems or downtime, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. If any piece of equipment were to break down or experience downtime, it could cause our production lines to go down. We have started operations in our second solar cell manufacturing facility nearby our existing facility in the Philippines and we plan to construct another manufacturing facility in Malaysia. This expansion has required and will continue to require significant management attention, a significant investment of capital and substantial engineering expenditures and is subject to significant risks including: • we may experience cost overruns, delays, equipment problems and other operating difficulties; • we may experience difficulties expanding our processes to larger production capacity; • our custom-built equipment may take longer and cost more to engineer than planned and may never operate as designed; and • we are incorporating first-time equipment designs and technology improvements, which we expect to lower unit capital and operating costs, but this new technology may not be successful. If we experience any of these or similar difficulties, we may be unable to complete the addition of new production lines on schedule in order to expand our manufacturing facilities and our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained. If this were to occur, our per-unit manufacturing costs would increase, we would be unable to increase sales or gross margins as planned and our earnings would likely be materially impaired. If we do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality in manufacturing our solar cells, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. The manufacture of solar cells is a highly complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield no output. We have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. As we expand our manufacturing capacity and bring additional lines or facilities into production, we may experience lower yields initially as is typical with any new equipment or process. We also expect to experience lower yields as we continue the initial migration of our manufacturing processes to thinner wafers. If we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase, and product availability would decrease resulting in lower revenues than expected. Additionally, products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our solar cells and solar panels may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. These defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver solar cells or solar panels with errors or defects, including cells or panels of third-party manufacturers, or if there is a perception that such solar cells or solar panels contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed. We obtain capital equipment used in our manufacturing process from sole suppliers and if this equipment is damaged or otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products on time will suffer, which in turn could result in order cancellations and loss of revenue. Some of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of our solar power products and in our wafer-slicing operations have been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to or a breakdown of our manufacturing or wafer-slicing equipment at a time when we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products, our business would suffer. In addition, a supplier’s failure to supply this equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay our capacity expansion of our manufacturing facility and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. - 19 - - Table of Contents We depend on a third-party subcontractor in China to assemble a significant portion of our solar cells into solar panels and any failure to obtain sufficient assembly and test capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our solar panels and damage our customer relationships. Historically, we have relied on Jiawei SolarChina Co., Ltd., a third-party subcontractor in China, to assemble a significant portion of our solar cells into solar panels and perform panel testing and to manage packaging, warehousing and shipping of our solar panels. We do not have a long-term agreement with Jiawei and we typically obtain its services based on short-term purchase orders that are generally aligned with timing specified by our customers’ purchase orders and our sales forecasts. As a result of outsourcing a significant portion of this final step in our production, we face several significant risks, including limited control over assembly and testing capacity, delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs. If the operations of Jiawei were disrupted or its financial stability impaired, or if it were unable or unwilling to devote capacity to our solar panels in a timely manner, our business would suffer as we may be unable to produce finished solar panels on a timely basis. We also risk customer delays resulting from an inability to move module production to an alternate provider, and it may not be possible to obtain sufficient capacity or comparable production costs at another facility in a timely manner. In addition, migrating our design methodology to a new third-party subcontractor or to a captive panel assembly facility could involve increased costs, resources and development time, and utilizing additional third-party subcontractors could expose us to further risk of losing control over our intellectual property and the quality of our solar panels. Further, we supply inventory to Jiawei and bear the risk of loss, theft or damage to our inventory while it is held in its facilities. Any reduction in the supply of solar panels could impair our revenue by significantly delaying our ability to ship products and potentially damage our relationships with new and existing customers. We established a captive solar panel assembly facility, and, if this panel manufacturing facility is unable to produce high quality solar panels at commercially reasonable costs, our revenue growth and gross margin could be adversely affected. We currently run seven solar panel assembly lines in the Philippines. This factory commenced commercial production during the fourth quarter of 2006. Much of the manufacturing equipment and technology in this factory is new and ramping to achieve their full rated capacity. In the event that this factory is unable to ramp production with commercially reasonable yields and competitive production costs, our anticipated revenue growth and gross margin will be adversely affected. Our Systems Segment acts as the general contractor for our customers in connection with the installations of our solar power systems and is subject to risks associated with construction, cost overruns, delays and other contingencies tied to performance bonds and letters of credit, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Systems Segment acts as the general contractor for our customers in connection with the installation of our solar power systems. All essential costs are estimated at the time of entering into the sales contract for a particular project, and these are reflected in the overall price that we charge our customers for the project. These cost estimates are preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between us or the other project developers, subcontractors, suppliers and other parties to the project. In addition, we require qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of our systems. Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase our costs. Should miscalculations in planning a project or defective or late execution occur, we may not achieve our expected margins or cover our costs. Also, some systems customers require performance bonds issued by a bonding agency or letters of credit issued by financial institutions. Due to the general performance risk inherent in construction activities, it has become increasingly difficult recently to secure suitable bonding agencies willing to provide performance bonding, and obtaining letters of credit requires adequate collateral because we have not obtained a credit rating. In the event we are unable to obtain bonding or sufficient letters of credit, we will be unable to bid on, or enter into, sales contracts requiring such bonding. In addition, some of our larger systems customers require that we pay substantial liquidated damages for each day or other period its solar installation is not completed beyond an agreed target date, up to and including the return of the entire project sale price. This is particularly true in Europe, where long-term, fixed feed-in tariffs available to investors are typically set during a prescribed period of project completion, but the fixed amount declines over time for projects completed in subsequent periods. We face material financial penalties in the event we fail to meet the completion deadlines, including but not limited a full refund of the contract price paid by the customers. In certain cases we do not control all of the events which could give rise to these penalties, such as reliance on the local utility to timely complete electrical substation construction. Furthermore, investors often require that the solar power system generate specified levels of electricity in order to maintain their investment returns, allocating substantial risk and financial penalties to us if those levels are not achieved, up to and including the return of the entire project sale price. Also, our customers often require protections in the form of conditional payments, payment retentions or holdbacks, and similar arrangements that condition its future payments on performance. Delays in solar panel or other supply shipments, other construction delays, unexpected performance problems in electricity generation or other events could cause us to fail to meet these performance criteria, resulting in unanticipated and severe revenue and earnings losses and financial penalties. Construction delays are often caused by inclement weather, failure to timely receive necessary approvals and permits, or delays in obtaining necessary solar panels, inverters or other materials. Additionally, we sometimes purchase land in connection with project development and assume the risk of project completion. All such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. - 20 - - Table of Contents We may be unable to achieve our goal of reducing the cost of installed solar systems by 50 percent by 2012, which may negatively impact our ability to sell our products in a competitive environment, resulting in lower revenues, gross margins and earnings. To reduce the cost of installed solar systems by 50 percent by 2012, as compared against the cost in 2006, we will have to achieve cost savings across the entire value chain from designing to manufacturing to distributing to selling and ultimately to installing solar systems. We have identified specific areas of potential savings and are pursuing targeted goals. However, such cost savings are dependent upon decreasing silicon prices and lowering manufacturing costs. In addition, we continue to explore cost effective methods of installing solar systems. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to reduce the cost of installed solar systems by 50 percent by 2012, our revenues, gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted in the competitive environment. Such risks would be exacerbated if governmental and fiscal incentives are reduced, or if these lower prices have been assumed in connection with our sales commitments and we are then unable to realize the expected reduction in cost of revenues, or if an increase in the global supply of solar cells and solar panels causes substantial downward pressure on prices of our products. Acquisitions of other companies or investments in joint ventures with other companies could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and dilute our stockholders’ equity. To increase our business and maintain our competitive position, we may acquire other companies or engage in joint ventures in the future. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of risks that could harm our business and result in the acquired business or joint venture not performing as expected, including: • insufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the acquired business is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and integrate the business; • problems integrating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products with the existing business and products; • diversion of management time and attention from the core business to the acquired business or joint venture; • potential failure to retain key technical, management, sales and other personnel of the acquired business or joint venture; • difficulties in retaining relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired business, particularly where such customers or suppliers compete with us; • reliance upon joint ventures which we do not control; • subsequent impairment of the acquired assets, including intangible assets; and • assumption of liabilities including, but not limited to, lawsuits, tax examinations, warranty issues, etc. Additionally, we may decide that it is in our best interests to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures that are dilutive to earnings per share or that negatively impact margins as a whole. Acquisitions or joint ventures could also require investment of significant financial resources and require us to obtain additional equity financing, which may dilute our stockholders’ equity, or require us to incur additional indebtedness. Further, following the spin-off of our shares by Cypress on September 29, 2008, our ability to issue equity, including to acquire companies or assets, is subject to limits as described in “Our agreements with Cypress require us to indemnify Cypress for certain tax liabilities. These indemnification obligations and related contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, participate in future acquisitions or pursue other business initiatives.” To the extent these limits prevent us from pursuing acquisitions or investments that we would otherwise pursue, our growth and strategy could be impaired. To the extent that we invest in upstream suppliers or downstream channel capabilities, we may experience competition or channel conflict with certain of our existing and potential suppliers and customers. Specifically, existing and potential suppliers and customers may perceive that we are competing directly with them by virtue of such investments and may decide to reduce or eliminate their supply volume to us or order volume from us. In particular, any supply reductions from our polysilicon, ingot or wafer suppliers could materially reduce manufacturing volume. Our agreements with Cypress require us to indemnify Cypress for certain tax liabilities. These indemnification obligations and related contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, participate in future acquisitions or pursue other business initiatives. We have entered into a tax sharing agreement with Cypress, under which we and Cypress agree to indemnify one another for certain taxes and similar obligations that the other party could incur under certain circumstances. In general, we will be responsible for taxes relating to our business. As of September 29, 2008, Cypress distributed the shares of SunPower to its shareholders, so we are no longer eligible to file any state combined returns. To the extent that we become entitled to certain tax benefits on our separate - 21 - - tax returns existing as of such date, we will distribute the amount of such benefits to Cypress. We will distribute these amounts to Cypress in cash or in our shares, at Cypress’s option. As of December 28, 2008, potential future payments to Cypress, which would be made over a period of several years, aggregate approximately $18.7 million. The majority of the deductions giving rise to these potential tax benefit payments were created by employee stock transactions. Because there is uncertainty as to our ability to use these deductions, the portion created by employee stock transactions are not reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. If these deductions were reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, they could be accounted for as an increase to deferred tax assets and stockholders’ equity. Cypress has obtained a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that the distribution by Cypress of our class B common stock to Cypress stockholders qualified as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, or Code. Despite that ruling, the distribution may nonetheless be taxable to Cypress if 50% or more of our voting power or economic value is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution of our stock. The tax sharing agreement requires us to indemnify Cypress for any liability incurred as a result of issuances or dispositions of our stock after the distribution, other than liability attributable solely to certain dispositions of our stock by Cypress, that cause Cypress’s distribution of our stock to be taxable to Cypress. Under current law, for up to two years after the distribution (or possibly longer if we are acting pursuant to a preexisting plan), our obligation to indemnify Cypress will be triggered if we issue stock or otherwise participate in one or more financing or acquisition transactions in which 50% or more of our voting power or economic value is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. In connection with Cypress’ spin-off of its shares of our class B common stock, on August 12, 2008, we and Cypress entered into an Amendment No. 1 to the Tax Sharing Agreement, or the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement, to address certain transactions that may affect the tax treatment of the spin-off and certain other matters. Under the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement, we are required to provide notice to Cypress of certain transactions that could give rise to our indemnification obligation described above. Such transactions include a conversion of any or all of our class B common stock to class A common stock or any similar recapitalization transaction or series of related transactions (a “Recapitalization”). We are not required to indemnify Cypress for any taxes which would result solely from (A) issuances and dispositions of our stock prior to the spin-off and (B) any acquisition of our stock by Cypress after the spin-off. Under the Amended Tax Sharing Agreement, we also agreed that, for a period of 25 months following the spin-off, we will not (i) effect a Recapitalization or (ii) enter into or facilitate any other transaction resulting in an acquisition of our stock without first obtaining the written consent of Cypress; if such transaction (either alone or when taken together with one or more other transactions entered into or facilitated by us consummated after August 4, 2008 and during the 25-month period following the spin-off) would involve the acquisition of more than 25% of our outstanding shares of common stock. However, we need not obtain Cypress’s consent for (A) certain qualifying acquisitions of our stock issued in connection with the performance of services, (B) any acquisition of our stock for which we furnish to Cypress prior to such acquisition an opinion of counsel and supporting documentation, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Cypress (a “Tax Opinion”), that such acquisition will qualify for certain “safe harbors” specified in Treasury Regulations or (C) the adoption by us of a standard stockholder rights plan. We further agreed that we will not (i) effect a Recapitalization during the 36 month period following the spin-off without first obtaining a Tax Opinion to the effect that such Recapitalization (either alone or when taken together with any other transaction or transactions) will not cause the spin-off to become taxable, or (ii) seek any private ruling, including any supplemental private ruling, from the IRS with regard to the spin-off, or any transaction having any bearing on the tax treatment of the spin-off, without the prior written consent of Cypress. Our ability to use our equity to obtain additional financing or to engage in acquisition transactions for a period of time after the tax-free distribution of our shares by Cypress will be restricted if we can only sell or issue a limited amount of our stock before triggering our obligation to indemnify Cypress for taxes relating to the distribution of our stock. Cypress made a complete distribution of its shares of our class B common stock on September 29, 2008 when our total outstanding capital stock was 85.8 million shares. Thus, in order to avoid causing an indemnification obligation to Cypress, we could not, for up two years (or possibly longer) after the date of the distribution, issue 85.8 million or more shares of our class A common stock or participate in one or more transactions (excluding the distribution itself) in which 42 million or more shares of our then-existing class A common stock were acquired, if any such transaction(s) are in connection with a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. If we were to participate in such a transaction, and thereby triggered tax to Cypress on the distribution, then assuming that Cypress distributed 42 million shares, Cypress’s top marginal income tax rate was 40% for federal and state income tax purposes, the fair market value of our class B common stock was $35.00 per share, and Cypress’s tax basis in such stock was $5.00 per share on the date of the distribution, our liability under our indemnification obligation to Cypress would be approximately $504.0 million. - 22 - - Table of Contents Our headquarters and manufacturing facilities, as well as the facilities of certain of our key subcontractors, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our headquarters and research and development operations are located in California, our manufacturing facilities are located in the Philippines, and the facilities of our subcontractor for assembly and test of solar panels are located in China. Since we do not have redundant facilities, any significant earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster in these countries could materially disrupt our production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of our solar cells. We could unexpectedly be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We train our key staff concerning FCPA issues, and we also inform many of our partners, subcontractors, agents and others who work for us or on our behalf that they must comply with FCPA requirements. There can be no assurance that our internal controls and procedures will always protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, subcontractors or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. We are required to comply with all foreign, U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding pollution control and protection of the environment. In addition, under some statutes and regulations, a government agency, or other parties, may seek recovery and response costs from operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if the operator was not responsible for such release or otherwise at fault. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. In addition, if more stringent laws and regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new laws and regulations could be substantial. To date such laws and regulations have not had a significant impact on our operations, and we believe that we have all necessary permits to conduct their respective operations as they are presently conducted. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws and regulations, however, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. Our success depends on the continuing contributions of our key personnel. We rely heavily on the services of our key executive officers and the loss of services of any principal member of our management team could adversely impact our operations. In addition, we anticipate that we will need to hire a significant number of highly skilled technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing, administrative and accounting personnel. The competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to support our anticipated growth. However, we cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed with us for any definite period of time since all of our employees, including our key executive officers, serve at-will and may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Loss of government programs that partially fund our research and development programs would increase our research and development expenses. We selectively pursue contract research, product development and market development programs funded by various agencies of the federal and state governments to complement and enhance our own resources. Funding from government grants is generally recorded as an offset to our research and development expense. These government agencies may not continue their commitment to programs relevant to our development projects. Moreover, we may not be able to compete successfully to obtain funding through these or other programs, and generally government agencies may unilaterally terminate or modify such agreements. A reduction or discontinuance of these programs, or of our participation in these programs, would increase our research and development expenses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and could impair our ability to develop competitive solar power products and services. - 23 - - Table of Contents Our reliance on government programs to partially fund our research and development programs could impair our ability to commercialize our solar power products and services. Government funding of some of our research and development efforts imposes certain restrictions on our ability to commercialize results and may grant commercialization rights to the government. In some funding awards, the government is entitled to intellectual property rights arising from the related research. Such rights could include a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced each subject invention developed under an award throughout the world by or on behalf of the government, or the right to require us to grant a license to the developed technology or products to a third-party or, if we refuse, the government may grant the license itself, if the government determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the technology, or because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations, or to give the United States industry preference. Accepting government funding can also require that manufacturing of products developed with federal funding be conducted in the United States. We are dependent on our intellectual property, and we may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could result in the loss of significant rights. From time to time, we, our respective customers or third-parties with whom we work may receive letters, including letters from various industry participants, alleging infringement of their patents. Although we are not currently aware of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure investors that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Additionally, we are required by contract to indemnify some of our customers and our third-party intellectual property providers for certain costs and damages of patent infringement in circumstances where our products are a factor creating the customer’s or these third-party providers’ infringement liability. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers and our third-party providers. We cannot assure investors that indemnification claims will not be made or that these claims will not harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Intellectual property litigation is very expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, our customers or our third-party intellectual property providers, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the International Trade Commission that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of our solar cells. Any of these judgments could materially damage our business. We may have to develop non-infringing technology, and our failure in doing so or in obtaining licenses to the proprietary rights on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have filed, and, may continue to file claims against other parties for infringing our intellectual property that may be very costly and may not be resolved in our favor. To protect our intellectual property rights and to maintain our competitive advantage, we have, and may continue to, file suits against parties who we believe infringe our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, and our enforcement efforts may not be successful. In addition, the validity of our patents may be challenged in such litigation. Our participation in intellectual property enforcement actions may negatively impact our financial results. We may not be able to prevent others from using the term SunPower or similar terms in connection with their solar power products which could adversely affect the market recognition of our name and our revenue. “SunPower” is our registered trademark in certain countries, including the U.S., for use with solar cells and solar panels. We are seeking similar registration of the “SunPower” trademark in other countries but we may not be successful in some of these jurisdictions. We hold registered trademarks for SunPower®, PowerLight®, PowerGuard®, PowerTracker® and SunTile®, in certain countries, including the U.S. We have not registered, and may not be able to register, these trademarks in other key countries. In the foreign jurisdictions where we are unable to obtain or have not tried to obtain registrations, others may be able to sell their products using trademarks compromising or incorporating “SunPower,” or our other chosen brands, which could lead to customer confusion. In addition, if there are jurisdictions where another proprietor has already established trademark rights in marks containing “SunPower,” or our other chosen brands, we may face trademark disputes and may have to market our products with other trademarks, which may undermine our marketing efforts. We may encounter trademark disputes with companies using marks which are confusingly similar to the SunPower mark, or our other marks, which if not resolved favorably could cause our branding efforts to suffer. In addition, we may have difficulty in establishing strong brand recognition with consumers if others use similar marks for similar products. - 24 - - Table of Contents We rely substantially upon trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights, and, if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenue could suffer. We seek to protect our proprietary manufacturing processes, documentation and other written materials primarily under trade secret and copyright laws. We also typically require employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • people may not be deterred from misappropriating our technologies despite the existence of laws or contracts prohibiting it; • policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use; • the laws of other countries in which we market our solar cells, such as some countries in the Asia/Pacific region, may offer little or no protection for our proprietary technologies; and • reports we file in connection with government-sponsored research contracts are generally available to the public and third-parties may obtain some aspects of our sensitive confidential information. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third-parties to benefit from our technologies without compensating us for doing so. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights could harm our ability to compete, to generate revenue and to grow our business. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection on the technology embodied in the solar cells or solar system components we currently manufacture and market, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Although we substantially rely on trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect the technology in the solar cells and solar system components we currently manufacture and market, our success and ability to compete in the future may also depend to a significant degree upon obtaining patent protection for our proprietary technology. We currently own multiple patents and patent applications which cover aspects of the technology in the solar cells and mounting systems that we currently manufacture and market. Material patents that relate to our systems products and services primarily relate to our rooftop mounting products and ground-mounted tracking products. We intend to continue to seek patent protection for those aspects of our technology, designs, and methodologies and processes that we believe provide significant competitive advantages. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if they result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we seek or we may have to refile patent applications due to newly discovered prior art. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable, or even if we obtain an award of damages for infringement by a third-party, such award could prove insufficient to compensate for all damages incurred as a result of such infringement. The term of any issued patents would be 20 years from their filing date and if our applications are pending for a long time period, we may have a correspondingly shorter term for any patent that may issue. Our present and future patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could develop similar or more advantageous technologies on their own or design around our patents. Also, patent protection in certain foreign countries may not be available or may be limited in scope and any patents obtained may not be as readily enforceable as in the United States, making it difficult for us to effectively protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. Our inability to obtain and enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. Risks Related to Our Debt and Equity Securities Conversion of our outstanding debentures, future substantial issuances or dispositions of our class A or class B common stock or other securities, could dilute ownership and earnings per share or cause the market price of our stock to decrease. To the extent we issue class A common stock upon conversion of debentures, the conversion of some or all of such debentures will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. Any sales in the public market of the class A and class B common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our class A and class B common stock. Sales of our class A or class B common stock in the public market or sales of any of our other securities could dilute ownership and earnings per share, and even the perception that such sales could occur and could cause the market prices of our class A and class B common stock to decline. In addition, the existence of our outstanding debentures may encourage short selling of our common stock by market participants who expect that the conversion of the debentures could depress the prices of our class A and class B common stock. - 25 - - Table of Contents Approximately 4.7 million shares of class A common stock were lent to underwriters of our debenture offerings, including approximately 2.9 million shares lent to Lehman Brothers International (Europe) Limited, or LBIE, and approximately 1.8 million shares lent to Credit Suisse International, or CSI. Such shares were lent to facilitate later hedging arrangements of future purchases for debentures in the after-market. Shares still held by CSI may be freely sold into the market at any time, and such sales could depress our stock price. In addition, any hedging activity facilitated by our debenture underwriters would involve short sales or privately negotiated derivatives transactions. Due to the September 15, 2008 bankruptcy filing of Lehman and commencement of administrative proceedings for LBIE in the U.K., we recorded the shares lent to LBIE as issued and outstanding as of September 15, 2008, for the purpose of computing and reporting basic and diluted earnings per share. If Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC or its affiliates, including CSI, were to file bankruptcy or commence similar administrative, liquidating, restructuring or other proceedings, we may have to consider approximately 1.8 million shares lent to CSI as issued and outstanding for purposes of calculating earnings per share which would further dilute our earnings per share. These or other similar transactions could further negatively affect our stock price. The price of our class A common stock, and therefore of our outstanding debentures, as well as our class B common stock may fluctuate significantly, and a liquid trading market for our class A and class B common stock may not be sustained. Our class A and class B common stock has a limited trading history in the public markets, and during that period has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The trading price of our class A and class B common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section. In addition, the stock market in general, and The Nasdaq Global Select Market and the securities of technology companies and solar companies in particular, have experienced severe price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations, including our own market valuation and those of companies in our industry generally, may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our class A and class B common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Because the debentures are convertible into our class A common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our class A common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of these debentures. The difference in the voting rights and liquidity could result in different market values for shares of our class A and our class B common stock. The rights of class A and class B common stock are substantially similar, except with respect to voting. The class B common stock is entitled to eight votes per share and the class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. Additionally, our restated certificate of incorporation imposed certain limitations on the rights of holders of class B common stock to vote the full number of their shares. The difference in the voting rights of our class A and class B common stock could reduce the value of our class A common stock to the extent that any investor or potential future purchaser of our common stock ascribes value to the right of our class B common stock to eight votes per share. In addition, the lack of a long trading history and lower trading volume of the class B common stock, compared to the class A common stock, could result in lower trading prices for the class B common stock. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions, our outstanding debentures provide for a right to convert upon certain events, and our board of directors entered into a rights agreement and declared a rights dividend, any of which could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to approximately 10.0 million shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; and • our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors, with the classes to be as nearly equal in number as possible; • no action can be taken by stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders called in accordance with our bylaws, and stockholders may not act by written consent; • stockholders may not call special meetings of the stockholders; • limitations on the voting rights of our stockholders with more than 15% of our class B common stock subject to receipt by Cypress of a supplemental ruling from the IRS that the effectiveness of the restriction will not prevent the favorable rulings received by Cypress with respect to certain tax issues arising under Section 355 of the Code in connection with the spin-off from having full force and effect; and - 26 - - Table of Contents • our board of directors is able to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval. Certain provisions of our outstanding debentures could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of our outstanding debentures will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase, at a cash repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest on the debentures, all of their debentures or any portion of the principal amount of such debentures in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares of our class A common stock upon conversion of such debentures in the event of certain fundamental changes. In addition, on August 12, 2008, we entered into a Rights Agreement with Computershare Trust Company, N.A. and our board of directors declared an accompanying rights dividend. The Rights Agreement became effective upon completion of Cypress’ spin-off of our shares of class B common stock to the holders of Cypress common stock. The Rights Agreement contains specific features designed to address the potential for an acquirer or significant investor to take advantage of our capital structure and unfairly discriminate between classes of our common stock. Specifically, the Rights Agreement is designed to address the inequities that could result if an investor, by acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding shares of class B common stock, were able to gain significant voting influence over our company without making a correspondingly significant economic investment. Our board of directors determined that the rights dividend became payable to the holders of record of our common stock as of the close of business on September 29, 2008. The rights dividend and Rights Agreement, commonly referred to as a “poison pill,” could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 