ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We are operating in a market environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following risk factors may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and the market price of our stock. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Recent Merger with PowerLight Although we expect the Merger to be beneficial for us, such benefits may not be realized because of integration difficulties or other challenges. On January 10, 2007, we completed our previously announced merger, or the Merger, with PowerLight Corporation. PowerLight has global operations that will need to be integrated successfully in order for us to realize the benefits anticipated from the Merger. Realizing these benefits will require the meshing of technology, operations and personnel of SunPower and PowerLight into a single organization. We expect the integration to be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that, even with proper planning and implementation, could cause significant disruption. The challenges that we may face include, but are not limited to, the following: • consolidating operations, including rationalizing corporate information technology and administrative infrastructures; • our management gaining sufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the PowerLight business is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and integrate the business; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts between the two companies: • overcoming any perceived adverse changes in business focus or model; • realizing synergies necessary to meet our long-term margin targets, given PowerLight’s historical margins; • coordinating and harmonizing research and development activities to accelerate introduction of new products and technologies with reduced cost; • preserving customer, supplier, distribution and other important relationships of SunPower and PowerLight and resolving any potential conflicts that may arise; • retaining key employees and maintaining employee morale; • addressing differences in the business cultures of SunPower and PowerLight; • coordinating and combining operations, relationships and facilities outside of the United States, which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by geographic distance, local laws and regulations; and 20 Table of Contents • creating a consolidated internal control over financial reporting structure so that we and our independent auditors can report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of PowerLight in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the Merger to the extent or when anticipated. Even if the integration of SunPower’s and PowerLight’s operations, products and personnel is successful, it may place a significant burden on our management resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. The completion of the Merger could cause certain solar cell and panel suppliers to reduce or terminate their business relationship with our PowerLight business, which could adversely affect the ability of our PowerLight business to meet customer demand for its solar power systems and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of the Merger, we now directly compete with certain suppliers of solar cells and panels to our PowerLight business. As a result, the Merger could cause one or more solar cell and panel suppliers to reduce or terminate their business relationship with our PowerLight business. After the Merger closed, we discontinued our purchasing relationship with one supplier, which was supplying panels to PowerLight under a purchase order relationship. This supplier will not supply solar panels to PowerLight beyond the first quarter of 2007. Other reductions or terminations, which may be significant, could occur. Any such reductions or terminations could adversely affect the ability of our PowerLight business to meet customer demand for its solar power systems, and materially adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition, which would likely materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to replace any lost solar cells or panels with our own inventory to mitigate the impact on the PowerLight business. However, such replacements may not be sufficient to fully address solar supply shortfalls experienced by our PowerLight business, and in any event could negatively impact our revenue and earnings as it forgoes selling such inventory to third parties. The completion of the Merger could cause our customers to reduce or terminate their business relationship with us, which could adversely affect our ability to distribute our products and materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. PowerLight directly competes, as a distributor of solar panels and systems, with many of our customers. For instance, both Conergy AG and Solon AG, two of our largest customers, actively compete with our PowerLight business in the large-scale solar power plant market. The completion of the Merger could cause these customers to be concerned that we will reduce our level of business with them and perform a significant portion of our integration activities through our PowerLight business, thereby competing with certain of our customers. As a result, customers might reduce or terminate their business relationships with us, making it more difficult for us to sell our products and expand our business. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. We may be harmed by liabilities arising out of our acquisition of PowerLight and the indemnity they have agreed to provide may be insufficient to compensate us for these damages. PowerLight has made representations and warranties to us in the Merger agreement, including those relating to the accuracy of its financial statements, the absence of litigation and environmental matters and the consents needed to transfer permits, licenses and third-party contracts in connection with our acquisition of PowerLight. To the extent that we are harmed by a breach of these representations and warranties, PowerLight’s stockholders have agreed to indemnify us for monetary damages from an escrowed proceeds account. In most cases we are required to absorb approximately the first $2.4 million before we are entitled to indemnification. The escrowed 21 Table of Contents proceeds account is limited to $19.7 million in cash and 840,000 shares of our class A common stock, of which approximately one-half of the original escrow will be released (less any pending claims) at the first anniversary of the closing date. Our rights to recover damages under several provisions of the Merger agreement will also expire on the first anniversary of the closing date. After the first anniversary of the closing date we will be entitled to recover only limited types of losses, and our recovery will be limited to the amount available in the escrow fund at the time of a claim. The amount available in the escrow fund will be progressively reduced to zero over the period from the first to the fifth anniversaries of the closing date. We may incur liabilities from this acquisition which are not covered by the representations and warranties set forth in the agreement or which are non-monetary in nature. Consequently, our acquisition of PowerLight may expose us to liabilities for which we are not entitled to indemnification or our indemnification rights are insufficient. PowerLight will need to obtain certain regulatory and third-party consents as a result of the Merger and, if it cannot obtain these consents, PowerLight’s and/or SunPower’s business may be harmed. PowerLight is currently attempting to obtain certain regulatory and third-party consents which are triggered upon a change of control. If PowerLight is unable to do so, it may be forced to renegotiate these agreements or be exposed to regulatory sanctions. There can be no assurance that PowerLight will be able to obtain any required regulatory approvals or renegotiate or to negotiate new agreements on favorable terms, or at all. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in connection with the Merger. We expect our direct transaction costs of will total approximately $3.0 million in connection with the Merger, which costs will be capitalized as purchase price. We believe that we will also incur charges to operations during 2007 to reflect the costs of integrating the two companies, but cannot reasonably estimate those costs at this time. There can be no assurance that we will not incur additional material charges in subsequent quarters to reflect additional costs associated with the Merger. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting to the Merger may adversely affect the market value of our class A common stock. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, we are accounting for the Merger using the purchase method of accounting, which may require an increase in the value of intangible assets and inventory to their respective fair values. Further, a portion of the purchase price paid in the Merger has been allocated to in-process research and development. These purchase accounting adjustments may result in material recurring and nonrecurring charges to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our class A common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, we will allocate the total purchase price to PowerLight’s net tangible assets and intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the Merger and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. We will incur amortization expense over the useful lives of amortizable intangible assets acquired in connection with the Merger. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill and long lived assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Further, we may be impacted by nonrecurring charges related to reduced gross profit margins from the requirement to adjust PowerLight’s inventory to fair value. Finally, we will incur ongoing compensation charges associated with assumed options, equity held by employees of PowerLight and subjected to equity restriction agreements, and restricted stock granted to employees of our PowerLight business. We estimate that these charges will aggregate approximately $37 million in each of 2007 and 2008 and lesser amounts in the succeeding two years. Any of the foregoing charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business SunPower and PowerLight share several risk factors common to both businesses. The following provides an integrated discussion of risk factors for SunPower and PowerLight. Where appropriate, the title heading to the risk factor indicates the business to which the risk relates. 22 Table of Contents The solar power industry is currently experiencing an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon. The prices that we pay for polysilicon have increased recently and we expect prices to remain at or above current levels for the foreseeable future, which may constrain the revenue growth and decrease gross margins and profitability for SunPower and PowerLight. Polysilicon is an essential raw material in our production of photovoltaic, or solar, cells and also in the solar cells and modules used by our PowerLight business to produce solar power systems. Polysilicon is created by refining quartz or sand. Polysilicon is melted and grown into crystalline ingots by companies specializing in ingot growth. We procure silicon ingots from these suppliers on a contractual basis and then slice these ingots into wafers. We also purchase wafers and polysilicon from third-party vendors. The ingots are sliced and the wafers are processed into solar cells in our Philippines manufacturing facility. There is currently an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, which has resulted in significant price increases. We expect that the average price of polysilicon will continue to increase. Increases in polysilicon prices have in the past increased our manufacturing costs and may impact our manufacturing costs and net income in the future. As demand for solar cells has increased, many of our principal competitors have announced plans to add additional manufacturing capacity. As this manufacturing capacity becomes operational, it will increase the demand for polysilicon and further exacerbate the current shortage. Polysilicon is also used in the semiconductor industry generally and any increase in demand from that sector will compound the shortage. The production of polysilicon is capital intensive and adding additional capacity requires significant lead time. While we are aware that several new facilities for the manufacture of polysilicon are under construction, we do not believe that the supply imbalance will be remedied in the near term. We expect that polysilicon demand will continue to outstrip supply throughout 2007 and potentially for a longer period. Although we have contracted with vendors for what we believe will be an adequate supply of silicon ingots through 2007, our estimates regarding our supply needs may not be correct and our purchase orders and contracts may be cancelled by our suppliers. The volume and pricing associated with these purchase orders and contracts may be changed by our suppliers based on market conditions. Our purchase orders are generally non-binding in nature. If our suppliers were to cancel our purchase orders or change the volume or pricing associated with these purchase orders and/or contracts, we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products, which could cause us to lose customers, market share and revenue. This would have a material negative impact on our business and operating results. If our manufacturing yields decrease significantly, we add manufacturing capacity faster than currently planned or our suppliers cancel or fail to deliver, we may not have made adequate provision for our polysilicon needs for the balance of the year. In addition, we currently purchase polysilicon and make advances to suppliers to secure future polysilicon supply, which adversely affects our liquidity. These advances may in the future take the form of equity issuances, which would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. In addition, since some of our silicon ingot and wafer arrangements are with suppliers who do not themselves manufacture polysilicon but instead purchase their requirements from other vendors, these suppliers may not be able to obtain sufficient polysilicon to satisfy their contractual obligations to us. There are a limited number of polysilicon suppliers. Many of our competitors also purchase polysilicon from our suppliers. Since we have only been purchasing polysilicon in bulk for slightly more than one year, which is a shorter period than our competitors, these other competitors have longer and perhaps stronger relationships with our suppliers than we do. Many of them also have greater buying power than we do. Some of our competitors also have inter-locking board members with their polysilicon suppliers or have entered into joint ventures with their suppliers. Additionally, a substantial amount of our future polysilicon requirements are expected to be sourced by new suppliers that have not yet proven their ability to manufacture large volumes of polysilicon. In some cases we expect that new entrants will provide us with polysilicon and ingots. The failure of these new entrants to produce adequate supplies of polysilicon and/or ingots in the quantities and quality we require could adversely affect our ability to grow production volumes and revenues and could also result in a decline in our gross profit margin. Since we have committed to significantly increase our manufacturing output, an inadequate supply of polysilicon would harm us more than it would harm many of our competitors. 23 Table of Contents The inability to obtain sufficient polysilicon, ingots or wafers at commercially reasonable prices or at all would adversely affect our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products and could cause us to make fewer shipments, lose customers and market share and generate lower than anticipated revenue, thereby seriously harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of the customers of SunPower and PowerLight are expected to continue to comprise a significant portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenue from these customers could have an adverse effect on us. Even though our customer base is expected to increase and our revenue streams to diversify as a result of the Merger, a large portion of our net revenues will likely continue to depend on sales to a limited number of customers. Inclusive of sales to PowerLight, during 2006, sales to our top three customers accounted for 65% of our revenues. Currently, our largest customers for our solar power products are Conergy AG, or Conergy, and Solon AG, or Solon. Conergy accounted for approximately 25% of our revenue for 2006. Solon accounted for approximately 24% of our revenue for 2006. PowerLight accounted for approximately 16% of our revenue for 2006. The loss of sales to any of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. Our agreements with these customers may be cancelled if we fail to meet certain product specifications or materially breach the agreement or in the event of bankruptcy, and our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. Most of the solar panels we sell to the European market are sold through our agreement with Conergy, and we may enter into similar agreements in the future. We currently sell to a relatively small number of customers, and we expect our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers for the foreseeable future, as well as the ability of these customers to sell solar power products that incorporate our solar cells. Our customer relationships have been developed over a short period of time and are generally in their preliminary stages. We cannot be certain that these customers will generate significant revenue for us in the future or if these customer relationships will continue to develop. If our relationships with our other customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. This is exacerbated by our current manufacturing constraints for solar cells which limit our ability to sell to other customers and our contractual arrangements which require us to sell part of our future output to Conergy and Solon. In addition, our business is affected by competition in the market for the end products that each of Conergy and Solon sell, and any decline in their business could harm our business and cause our revenue to decline. SunPower and PowerLight’s operating results will be subject to fluctuations and are inherently unpredictable; if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price may decline significantly. Our quarterly revenue and operating results will be difficult to predict and SunPower’s and PowerLight’s results have in the past fluctuated from quarter to quarter. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters will be below market expectations. Our quarterly operating results will be affected by a number of factors, including: • the average selling price of SunPower’s solar cells and panels and imaging detectors and our PowerLight business’ solar power systems; • the availability and pricing of raw materials, particularly polysilicon; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of raw materials and components, particularly solar panels and balance of systems components, including steel, necessary for our PowerLight business’ solar power systems to function; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our manufacturing and product assembly capacity to meet customer demand, including costs and timing of adding personnel; • the amount and timing of sales of our PowerLight business’ systems, especially medium and large-scale projects, which may individually cause severe fluctuations in our revenue; 24 Table of Contents • our ability to meet project completion schedules and the corresponding revenue impact under the percentage-of-completion method of recognizing revenue for projects of our PowerLight business; • construction cost overruns, including those associated with the introduction of new products; • the impact of seasonal variations in demand and/or revenue recognition linked to construction cycles and weather conditions; • timing, availability and changes in government incentive programs; • unplanned additional expenses such as manufacturing failures, defects or downtime; • acquisition and investment related costs; • unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders, some of which are not fixed by contract but vary on a purchase order basis; • the loss of one or more key customers or the significant reduction or postponement of orders from these customers; • geopolitical turmoil within any of the countries in which we operate or sell products; • foreign currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro, Philippine peso or South Korean won; • the effect of currency hedging activities; • our ability to establish and expand customer relationships; • changes in our manufacturing costs; • changes in the relative sales mix of our solar cells, solar panels and imaging detectors; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other products, such as inverters necessary for our solar power products to function; • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced solar power products in a timely manner, and the amount and timing of related research and development costs; • the timing of new product or technology announcements or introductions by our competitors and other developments in the competitive environment; • the willingness of competing solar cell and panel suppliers to continue product sales to our PowerLight business; • increases or decreases in electric rates due to changes in fossil fuel prices or other factors; and • shipping delays. We will base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses will be relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. This may cause us to miss analysts’ guidance or any future guidance announced by us. If we fail to meet or exceed analyst or investor expectations or our own future guidance, even by a small amount, our stock price could decline, perhaps substantially. SunPower has four solar cell production lines which are located in our manufacturing facilities in the Philippines, and if we experience interruptions in the operation of these production lines or are unable to add additional production lines, it would likely result in lower revenue and earnings than anticipated. SunPower currently operates four solar cell manufacturing lines which are located at our manufacturing facilities in the Philippines. If our current or future production lines were to experience any problems or 25 Table of Contents downtime, including those caused by intermittent electricity supply at our Philippines facilities, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. If any piece of equipment were to break down or experience downtime, it could cause our production lines to go down. We have recently acquired a second solar cell manufacturing facility nearby our existing facility in the Philippines. This expansion has required and will continue to require significant management attention, a significant investment of capital and substantial engineering expenditures and is subject to significant risks including: • we may experience cost overruns, delays, equipment problems and other operating difficulties; • we may experience difficulties expanding our processes to larger production capacity; • our custom-built equipment may take longer and cost more to engineer than planned and may never operate as designed; and • we are incorporating first-time equipment designs and technology improvements, which we expect to lower unit capital and operating costs, but this new technology may not be successful. If we experience any of these or similar difficulties, we may be unable to complete the addition of new production lines on schedule in order to expand our manufacturing facilities and our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained. If this were to occur, our per-unit manufacturing costs would increase, we would be unable to increase sales as planned and our earnings would likely be materially impaired. SunPower has recently established a captive solar panel assembly factory, and, if this panel manufacturing factory is unable to produce high quality solar panels at commercially reasonable costs, our revenue growth and gross margin could be adversely affected. SunPower has constructed a new 30 megawatt automated solar panel assembly factory in the Philippines. This factory commenced commercial production during the fourth quarter of 2006. Much of the manufacturing equipment and technology in this factory is new and unproven in volume production of solar panels. In the event that this factory is unable to ramp production with commercially reasonable yields and competitive production costs, our anticipated revenue growth and gross margin will be adversely affected. If SunPower does not achieve satisfactory yields or quality in manufacturing our solar cells, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. The manufacture of solar cells is a highly complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield no output. SunPower has from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. For example, we recently acquired a building to house our second solar cell manufacturing facility near our existing facility. As we expand our manufacturing capacity and bring additional lines or facilities into production, we may experience lower yields initially as is typical with any new equipment or process. We also expect to experience lower yields as we continue the initial migration of our manufacturing processes to thinner wafers. If we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase, and product availability would decrease resulting in lower revenues than expected. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for SunPower and PowerLight products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, U.S. federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the U.S. and in a number of other countries, these regulations and 26 Table of Contents policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for the solar power products of SunPower and PowerLight. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility network. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives could cause revenue to decline for SunPower and PowerLight. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network or sold to a utility under tariff, depends in large part on the availability and size of government and economic incentives. Because a majority of sales for SunPower and PowerLight are in the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which could cause our revenue to decline. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds retail electric rates in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan, Spain, Italy, Portugal, South Korea and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of feed-in tariffs more rapidly than required by current law. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering and other operational policies in California, Japan or other markets could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for and lower revenue from our products. Changes in the level or structure of a renewable portfolio standard could also result in decreased demand for and lower revenue from our products. Changes in tax laws or fiscal policies may decrease the return on investment for customers of our PowerLight business, and for certain investors in its projects, which could decrease demand for its products and services and harm its business. In the nine months ended September 30, 2006, 22% of PowerLight’s revenues were derived from sales of solar power systems to companies formed to develop and operate solar power generation facilities. Such companies have been formed by third party investors with some frequency in the United States, Germany, Spain, South Korea and Portugal, as these investors seek to benefit from government mandated feed-in tariffs and similar legislation. PowerLight’s business depends in part on the continuing formation of such companies and the potential revenue source they represent. In deciding whether to form and invest in such companies, potential 27 Table of Contents investors weigh a variety of considerations, including their projected return on investment. Such projections are based on current and proposed federal, state and local laws, particularly tax legislation. Changes to these laws, including amendments to existing tax laws or the introduction of new tax laws, tax court rulings as well as changes in administrative guidelines, ordinances and similar rules and regulations could result in different tax assessments and may adversely affect an investor’s projected return on investment, which could have a material adverse effect on PowerLight’s business and results of operations. Problems with product quality or product performance, including defects, in our solar cells could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share for SunPower and PowerLight. SunPower’s solar cells are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our solar cells and solar panels may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. These defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver solar cells or solar panels with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our solar cells or solar panels contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our solar power products could be harmed. Similarly, if PowerLight delivers solar cells or panels with errors or defects, including cells or panels of third party manufacturers, or if there is a perception that such solar cells or solar panels contain errors or defects, PowerLight’s credibility and the market acceptance and sales of its solar power systems could be harmed. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. We have agreed to indemnify our customers and our distributors in some circumstances against liability from defects in our solar cells. A successful indemnification claim against us could require us to make significant damage payments, which would negatively affect our financial results. Since our SunPower solar panels cannot be tested for the duration of our standard 25-year warranty period, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense; if SunPower or PowerLight is subject to warranty and product liability claims, such claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. SunPower’s current standard product warranty for our solar panels includes a 10-year warranty period for defects in material and workmanship and a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance as well as a one-year warranty on the functionality of our solar cells. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with industry practice. Due to the long warranty period and our proprietary technology, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenue. SunPower has sold solar cells only since late 2004. Any increase in the defect rate of our products would cause us to increase the amount of warranty reserves and have a corresponding negative impact on our results. Although we conduct accelerated testing of our solar cells and have several years of experience with our all back contact cell architecture, our solar panels have not and cannot be tested in an environment simulating the 25-year warranty period. In the second quarter of 2006, we increased our estimated warranty provision rate, which increased our warranty reserve by approximately $1.0 million. This change in estimate was based on results of recent testing that simulates adverse environmental conditions and potential failure rates our solar panels could experience during their 25-year warranty period. As a result of the foregoing, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense, which in turn would harm our financial results. Like other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products that are used by consumers, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products into which our solar cells and solar panels are incorporated results in injury. Our PowerLight business may be subject to warranty and product liability claims in the event that its solar power systems fail to perform as expected or if 28 Table of Contents a failure of its solar power systems results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury, property damage or other damages. Since our solar power products are electricity producing devices, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. In addition, since we only began selling our solar cells and solar panels in late 2004 and the products we are developing incorporate new technologies and use new installation methods, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. We have evaluated the potential risks we face and believe that we have appropriate levels of insurance for product liability claims. We rely on our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product liability insurance. However, a successful warranty or product liability claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages. In addition, quality issues can have various other ramifications, including delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue, loss of future sales opportunities, increased costs associated with repairing or replacing products, and a negative impact on our goodwill and reputation, which could also adversely affect our business and operating results. Our PowerLight business’ exposure to warranty and product liability claims is expected to increase significantly in connection with its planned expansion into the new home development market. Warranty and product liability claims may result from defects or quality issues in certain third party technology and components that our PowerLight business incorporates into its solar power systems, particularly solar cells and panels, over which it has no control. While its agreements with its suppliers generally include warranties, such provisions may not fully compensate us for any loss associated with third-party claims caused by defects or quality issues in such products. In the event we seek recourse through warranties, we will also be dependent on the creditworthiness and continued existence of the suppliers to our PowerLight business. Our PowerLight business’ current standard warranty differs by geography and end-customer application and includes either a one-, two- or five-year comprehensive parts and workmanship warranty, after which the customer may typically extend the period covered by its warranty for an additional fee. Due to the warranty period, our PowerLight business bears the risk of extensive warranty claims long after it has completed a project and recognized revenues. Future product failures could cause our PowerLight business to incur substantial expenses to repair or replace defective products. While our PowerLight business generally passes through manufacturer warranties it receives from its suppliers to its customers, it is responsible for repairing or replacing any defective parts during its warranty period, often including those covered by manufacturers warranties. If the manufacturer disputes or otherwise fails to honor its warranty obligations, our PowerLight business may be required to incur substantial costs before it is compensated, if at all, by the manufacturer. Furthermore, the PowerLight business’ warranties may exceed the period of any warranties from the PowerLight business’ suppliers covering components included in its systems, such as inverters. In February 2004, one of PowerLight’s major panel suppliers at the time, AstroPower, Inc., filed for bankruptcy. PowerLight had installed systems incorporating over 30,000 AstroPower panels, and approximately 27,000 of these panels incorporated into systems that are still under warranty by it. The majority of these warranties expire by 2008, and all expire by 2010. While PowerLight has not experienced a significant number of warranty or other claims related to installed AstroPower panels, it may in the future incur significant unreimbursable expenses in connection with the repair or replacement of these panels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, another major supplier of solar panels notified PowerLight of a product defect that may affect a substantial number of panels installed by PowerLight during the period 2002 through September 2006. If the supplier does not perform its contractual obligations to remediate the defective panels, we will be exposed to those costs it would incur under the warranty with its customers. 29 Table of Contents SunPower incurred losses from inception through 2005 and SunPower and PowerLight may not be able to generate sufficient revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. SunPower incurred net losses from inception through 2005 and at December 31, 2006 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $32.0 million. To maintain our profitability, SunPower and PowerLight will need to generate and sustain higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We do not know if our revenue will grow, or if it will grow sufficiently to outpace our expenses, which we expect to increase as we expand our manufacturing capacity. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. If we do not sustain profitability or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. SunPower and PowerLight will continue to be dependent on a limited number of third-party suppliers for key components for our products, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which could result in installation delays, cancellations, liquidated damages and loss of market share. In addition to SunPower’s reliance on a small number of suppliers for its solar cells and panels, PowerLight relies on third-party suppliers for key components for its solar power systems, such as inverters that convert the direct current electricity generated by solar panels into alternating current electricity usable by the customer. For the year ended December 31, 2006, one supplier accounted for most of PowerLight’s inverter purchases for domestic projects, one supplier accounted for most of its inverter purchases for European projects and one supplier accounted for all of the inverter purchases for its Asia projects. In addition, one vendor supplies all of the foam required to manufacture PowerLight’s PowerGuard ® roof system. If SunPower or PowerLight fails to develop or maintain our relationships with our limited suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products or our products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes and we may experience order cancellation and loss of market share. To the extent the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative suppliers. The failure of a supplier to supply components in a timely manner, or to supply components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements, could impair our ability to manufacture our products or decrease their costs. If we cannot obtain substitute materials on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, we could be prevented from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which could result in installation delays, cancellations, liquidated damages and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any firm commitment supply agreements with solar panel manufacturers could result in insufficient or excess inventory in the PowerLight business. PowerLight recently attempted to address the solar cell and panel shortage by negotiating certain multi-year contractual commitments from suppliers. Under such agreements, it is generally required to purchase a specified number of solar cells or panels at fixed prices. Our PowerLight business’ failure to satisfy its purchase obligations may result in substantial liquidated or other damages that we will be required to pay these suppliers. PowerLight did not obtain, and we do not intend to obtain, contracts or commitments from customers for products incorporating solar panels prior to the negotiation of such firm commitment contracts. Instead, PowerLight relies on its long-term internal forecasts to determine the timing of its production schedules and the volume and mix of its products to be manufactured, including the estimated number of solar panels needed. The level and timing of orders placed by customers may vary for many reasons. As a result, at any particular time, we may have insufficient or excess inventory, and incur liquidated or other damages with suppliers to our PowerLight business for failure to satisfy its purchase obligations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, if we enter into long-term solar panel purchase commitments, due to the rapid pace of technological advancements in the solar power industry, we increase our risk of obsolescence of products that we have agreed to purchase over extended periods. 30 Table of Contents Acquisitions of other companies or investments in joint ventures with other companies by SunPower or PowerLight could adversely affect our operating results, dilute our stockholders’ equity, or cause us to incur additional debt or assume contingent liabilities. To increase our business and maintain our competitive position, we may acquire other companies or engage in joint ventures in the future. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of risks that could harm our business and result in the acquired business or joint venture not performing as expected, including: • insufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the acquired business is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and integrate the business; • problems integrating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products with the existing business and products; • diversion of management time and attention from the core business to the acquired business or joint venture; • potential failure to retain key technical, management, sales and other personnel of the acquired business or joint venture; • difficulties in retaining relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired business, particularly where such customers or suppliers compete with us; and • subsequent impairment of the acquired assets, including intangible assets. We may decide that it is in its best interests to enter into acquisitions or joint ventures that are dilutive to earnings per share or that negatively impact margins as a whole. In addition, acquisitions or joint ventures could require investment of significant financial resources and require us to obtain additional equity financing, which may dilute our stockholders’ equity, or require us to incur additional indebtedness. To the extent that we invest in upstream suppliers or downstream channel capabilities, we may experience competition or channel conflict with certain of our existing and potential suppliers and customers. Specifically, existing and potential suppliers and customers may perceive that we are competing directly with them by virtue of such investments and may decide to reduce or eliminate their supply volume to us or order volume from us. In particular, any supply reductions from our polysilicon, ingot or wafer suppliers could materially reduce manufacturing volume. SunPower and PowerLight have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue these efforts, which subject us to additional business risks, including logistical complexity, political instability and currency fluctuations. For fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, a substantial portion of our sales were made to customers outside of the United States. SunPower currently has four solar cell production lines in operation, which are located at our manufacturing facility in the Philippines. In addition, a majority of our assembly functions have historically been conducted by a third-party subcontractor in China. PowerLight has historically had significant sales in Germany, Portugal and Spain. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other government approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations such as our manufacturing facility in the Philippines, as well as cultural differences; • difficulties and costs in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; • increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; • potentially adverse tax consequences; 31 Table of Contents • inadequate local infrastructure; • financial risks, such as longer sales and payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; and • political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions. Specifically, SunPower faces risks associated with political and economic instability and civil unrest in the Philippines. In addition, in the Asia/Pacific region generally, we face risks associated with a recurrence of SARS, tensions between countries in that region, such as political tensions between China and Taiwan, the ongoing discussions with North Korea regarding its nuclear weapons program, potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, government-fixed foreign exchange rates, relatively uncertain legal systems and developing telecommunications infrastructures. In addition, some countries in this region, such as China, have adopted laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in that country or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. In addition, although base wages are lower in the Philippines than in the United States, wages for SunPower’s employees in the Philippines are increasing, which could result in increased costs to employ our manufacturing engineers. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 94% of SunPower’s employees were located in the Philippines. We also are faced with competition in the Philippines for employees, and we expect this competition to increase as additional solar companies enter the market and expand their operations. In particular, there may be limited availability of qualified manufacturing engineers. We have benefited from an excess of supply over demand for college graduates in the field of engineering in the Philippines. If this favorable imbalance changes due to increased competition, it could affect the availability or cost of qualified employees, who are critical to our performance. This could increase our costs and turnover rates. A significant portion of the operations for SunPower and PowerLight occur outside the United States. Currency fluctuations in the Euro, Philippine peso or the South Korean won relative to the U.S. dollar could decrease revenue or increase its expenses. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, approximately 68% of SunPower’s total revenue, including sales to PowerLight, was generated outside the United States. We presently have currency exposure arising from sales, capital equipment purchases, prepayments and customer advances denominated in foreign currencies. A majority of SunPower’s total revenue is denominated in Euros, including fixed price agreements with Conergy and Solon, and a significant portion is denominated in U.S. dollars, while a portion of SunPower’s costs are incurred and paid in Euros and a smaller portion of SunPower’s expenses are paid in Philippine pesos and Japanese yen. In addition, SunPower’s prepayment to Wacker-Chemie AG, a polysilicon supplier to SunPower, and SunPower’s customer advances from Solon are denominated in Euros. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and in 2005 approximately 34% and 19%, respectively, of PowerLight’s total revenue was generated outside the U.S. PowerLight presently has currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. A large portion of PowerLight’s total revenue is denominated in Euros, and a significant portion of its costs are incurred and paid in Euros. SunPower and PowerLight are exposed to the risk of a decrease in the value of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, which would decrease our total revenue. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it will make it more expensive in terms of U.S. dollars to purchase inventory or pay expenses with foreign currencies. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency as well as make our products, which are usually purchased with U.S. dollars, relatively more expensive than products manufactured locally. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our solar cells more expensive for international customers, thus potentially leading to a 32 Table of Contents reduction in our sales and profitability. Furthermore, many of our competitors will be foreign companies that could benefit from such a currency fluctuation, making it more difficult for us to compete with those companies. We currently conduct hedging activities, which involve the use of currency forward contracts. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business and operating results. In the past, we have experienced an adverse impact on our total revenue and profitability as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. SunPower’s current tax holidays in the Philippines will expire within the next several years. SunPower currently benefits from income tax holiday incentives in the Philippines pursuant to our Philippine subsidiary’s registrations with the Board of Investments and Philippine Economic Zone Authority, which provide that we pay no income tax in the Philippines for four years pursuant to our Board of Investments non-pioneer status and Philippine Economic Zone Authority registrations, and six years pursuant to our Board of Investments pioneer status registration. Our current income tax holidays expire in 2010, and we intend to apply for extensions. However, these tax holidays may or may not be extended. We believe that as our Philippine tax holidays expire, (a) gross income attributable to activities covered by our Philippine Economic Zone Authority registrations will be taxed at a 5% preferential rate, and (b) our Philippine net income attributable to all other activities will be taxed at the statutory Philippine corporate income tax rate of 32%. As of yet no tax benefit has been realized from the income tax holiday due to operating losses in the Philippines. Neither SunPower nor PowerLight may be able to increase or sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. Neither SunPower nor PowerLight may be able to continue to expand our business or manage future growth. Our recent expansion has placed, and our planned expansion and any other future expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. We plan to purchase additional equipment to significantly expand our manufacturing capacity and to hire additional employees to support an increase in manufacturing, research and development and our sales and marketing efforts. To successfully manage our growth and handle the responsibilities of being a public company, we believe we must effectively: • hire, train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers for research and development activities, sales and marketing personnel, and financial and information technology personnel; • retain key management and augment our management team, particularly if we lose key members; • continue to enhance our customer resource management and manufacturing management systems; • implement and improve additional and existing administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls, including the need to integrate our financial internal control systems in our Philippines facility with those of our San Jose, California headquarters; • expand and upgrade our technological capabilities; and • manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. PowerLight experienced significant revenue growth due primarily to the development and market acceptance of its PowerGuard ® roof system, the acquisition and introduction of its PowerTracker ® ground and elevated parking systems, its development of other technologies and increasing global interest and demand for renewable energy sources, including solar power generation. As a result, PowerLight increased its revenues in a relatively short period of time. Its annual revenue increased from $50.9 million in 2003 to $87.6 million in 2004 to $107.8 million in 2005 and to $140.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006, respectively. Our PowerLight business may not experience similar revenue growth in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of the future operating performance of our PowerLight business. 33 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by rapid growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new solar cells and other products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. SunPower and PowerLight had approximately 1,759 full-time employees as of January 1, 2007, on a pro forma combined basis, and we anticipate that we will need to hire a significant number of highly skilled technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing, administrative and accounting personnel. The competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to support our anticipated growth. Since we are a public company, may have more difficulty than our private competitors in attracting personnel because of the perception that the stock option component of our compensation package may not be as valuable. The success of our PowerLight business will depend in part on the continuing formation of such companies and the potential revenue source they represent. In deciding whether to form and invest in such companies, potential investors weigh a variety of considerations, including their projected return on investment. Such projections are based on current and proposed federal, state and local laws, particularly tax legislation. Changes to these laws, including amendments to existing tax laws or the introduction of new tax laws, tax court rulings as well as changes in administrative guidelines, ordinances and similar rules and regulations could result in different tax assessments and may adversely affect an investor’s projected return on investment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The steps SunPower has taken to increase the efficiency of our polysilicon utilization are unproven at volume production levels and may not enable us to realize the cost reductions we anticipate. Given the polysilicon shortage, we believe the efficient use of polysilicon will be critical to SunPower’s ability to reduce our manufacturing costs. We continue to implement several measures to increase the efficient use of polysilicon in our manufacturing process. For example, we are developing processes to utilize thinner wafers which require less polysilicon and improved wafer-slicing technology to reduce the amount of material lost while slicing wafers, otherwise known as kerf loss. Although we have implemented some production on thinner wafers and anticipate further reductions in wafer thickness, these methods may have unforeseen negative consequences on our yields or our solar cell efficiency or reliability once they are put into large-scale commercial production or they may not enable us to realize the cost reductions we hope to achieve. PowerLight recognized revenue on a “percent completion” basis and upon the achievement of contractual milestones. We intend to recognize revenue from projects our PowerLight business on a similar basis, and any delay or cancellation of a project could adversely affect our business. PowerLight recognized revenue on a “percent completion” basis and, as a result, the revenue from this business was driven by its performance of its contractual obligations, which is generally driven by timelines for the installation of its solar power systems at customer sites. We will recognize revenue from projects of the PowerLight business on a similar basis. As a consequence of the Merger, we will delay the recognition of revenue from sales of cells and panels to PowerLight until PowerLight recognizes revenue. This could result in unpredictability of revenue and, in the near term, a revenue decrease. As with any project-related business, there is the potential for delays within any particular customer project. Variation of project timelines and estimates may impact our ability to recognize revenue in a particular period. In addition, certain customer contracts may include payment milestones due at specified points during a project. Because our PowerLight business usually must invest substantial time and incur significant expense in advance of achieving milestones and the receipt of payment, failure to achieve such milestones could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Our PowerLight business’ sales cycles can be longer than the sales cycle for our solar cells and panels and may require significant upfront investment which may not ultimately result in signing of a sales contract and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our PowerLight business’ sales cycles, which measure the time between its first contact with a customer and the signing of a sales contract for a particular project, vary substantially and average approximately eight months. Sales cycles for the PowerLight business’ systems are lengthy for a number of reasons, including: • its customers often delay purchasing decisions until their eligibility for an installation rebate is confirmed, which generally takes several months; • the long time required to secure adequate financing for system purchases on terms acceptable to customers; and • the customer’s review and approval processes for system purchases are lengthy and time consuming. As a result of these long sales cycles, our PowerLight business must make significant upfront investments of resources in advance of the signing of sales contracts and the receipt of any revenues, most of which are not recognized for several additional months following contract signing. Accordingly, our PowerLight business must focus its limited resources on sales opportunities that it believes it can secure. Its inability to enter into sales contracts with potential customers after it makes such an investment could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. SunPower depends on a combination of our own wafer-slicing operations and those of other vendors for the wafer-slicing stage of our manufacturing, and any technical problems, breakdowns, delays or cost increases could significantly delay our manufacturing operations, decrease our output and increase our costs. SunPower has historically depended on the wafer-slicing operations of third-party vendors to slice ingots into wafers. We have established our own wafer-slicing operations, and in 2006, we sliced approximately 60% of our wafers. If our third-party vendors increase their prices or decrease or discontinue their shipments to us, as a result of equipment malfunctions, competing purchasers or otherwise, and we are unable to obtain substitute wafer-slicing from another vendor on acceptable terms, or increase our own wafer-slicing operations on a timely basis, our sales will decrease, our costs may increase or our business will otherwise be harmed. SunPower obtains capital equipment used in our manufacturing process from sole suppliers and if this equipment is damaged or otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products on time will suffer, which in turn could result in order cancellations and loss of revenue. Some of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of SunPower’s solar power products and in our wafer-slicing operations has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. In addition, we currently obtain the equipment for many of our manufacturing processes from sole suppliers and we obtain our wafer-slicing equipment from one supplier. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to or a breakdown of our manufacturing or wafer-slicing equipment at a time when we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products, our business would suffer. In addition, a supplier’s failure to supply this equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay our capacity expansion of our manufacturing facility and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. SunPower and PowerLight generally do not have long-term agreements with our customers and accordingly could lose customers without warning. SunPower’s solar cells, solar panels and imaging detector products are generally not sold pursuant to long-term agreements with customers, but instead are sold on a purchase order basis. PowerLight typically contracts to 35 Table of Contents perform large projects with no assurance of repeat business from the same customers in the future. Although we believe that cancellations on our purchase orders to date have been insignificant, our customers may cancel or reschedule purchase orders with us on relatively short notice. Cancellations or rescheduling of customer orders could result in the delay or loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce, or delay the incurrence of, our corresponding inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from these or other customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. This, in addition to the completion and non-repetition of large PowerLight projects, in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate. Sales contracts for PowerLight’s products with increasing frequency have begun to include provisions regarding liquidated damages for installation delays, electricity generation or other solar power system performance guarantees and conditional payments. If they continue, such provisions will put us at economic risk for future uncertain events. Some of PowerLight’s larger customers require that it pay substantial liquidated damages for each day or other period its solar installation is not completed beyond an agreed target date. This is particularly true in Europe, where long-term, fixed feed-in tariffs available to investors are typically set during the year of project completion, but the fixed amount declines over time for projects completed in subsequent years. In addition, investors often require that the solar power system generate specified levels of electricity in order to maintain their investment returns, allocating risk and financial penalties to PowerLight if those levels are not achieved. Furthermore, its customers often require protections in the form of conditional payments, payment retentions or holdbacks, and similar arrangements that condition its future payments on performance. Delays in solar panel or other supply shipments, other construction delays, unexpected performance problems in electricity generation or other events could cause our PowerLight business to fail to meet these performance criteria, resulting in unanticipated revenue and earnings losses and financial penalties. If the trend for requiring such provisions continues, our PowerLight business would be subject to the same risks as PowerLight prior to the Merger, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. PowerLight prior to the Merger usually acted as the general contractor for its customers in connection with the installations of its solar power systems and was subject to risks associated with cost overruns, delays and other contingencies. We intend to operate the PowerLight business in the same manner, and will be subject to the same risks. PowerLight prior to the Merger acted as the general contractor for its customers in connection with the installation of its solar power systems. All essential costs were estimated at the time of entering into the sales contract for a particular project, and these were reflected in the overall price that it charges its customers for the project. These cost estimates were preliminary and may or may not be covered by contracts between PowerLight or the other project developers, subcontractors, suppliers and other parties to the project. In addition, PowerLight required qualified, licensed subcontractors to install most of its systems. Shortages of such skilled labor could significantly delay a project or otherwise increase PowerLight’s costs. Should miscalculations in planning a project or defective or late execution occur, PowerLight may not have achieved its expected margins or cover its costs. In particular, construction delays, including those caused by inclement weather, failure to timely receive necessary approvals and permits, or delays in obtaining necessary solar panels, inverters or other materials. Because we intend to operate our PowerLight business in the same manner, our PowerLight business could be subject to the same risks, and such risks could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our PowerLight business could be adversely affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles. Our PowerLight business is subject to significant industry-specific seasonal fluctuations. Its sales have historically reflected these seasonal trends with the largest percentage of total revenues being realized during the last two calendar quarters. Low seasonal demand normally results in reduced shipments and revenues in the first 36 Table of Contents two calendar quarters. There are various reasons for this seasonality, mostly related to economic incentives and weather patterns. For example, in European countries with feed-in tariffs, the construction of solar power systems is concentrated during the second half of the calendar year, largely due to the annual reduction of the applicable minimum feed-in tariff and the fact that the coldest winter months are January through March. In the United States, customers will sometimes make purchasing decisions towards the end of the year in order to take advantage of tax credits or for other budgetary reasons. In addition, to the extent the PowerLight business is successful in implementing its strategy to enter the new home development market, it expects the seasonality of its business and financial results to become more pronounced as sales in this market are often tied to construction market demands which tend to follow national trends in construction, including declining sales during cold weather months. The expansion of our PowerLight business into the residential market may increase its exposure to certain risks, including class action product liability claims. PowerLight has expanded into the residential market by beginning to sell its systems to large production homebuilders. It currently expects this new growth strategy to initially focus on new home development projects in excess or 50 homes, though it considers projects below this amount. As part of this strategy, PowerLight developed SunTile® , a product that integrates a solar panel into a roof tile. To date PowerLight has focused on large-scale commercial applications and has almost no experience serving the residential market. Our PowerLight business’ new residential products and services may not gain market acceptance and it may not otherwise be successful in entering the residential market, which would limit its growth and adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, the residential construction market has peculiar characteristics that may increase its exposure to certain risks it currently faces or expose it to new risks. These risks include increased seasonality, sensitivity to interest rates and other macroeconomic conditions, as well as enhanced legal exposure. In particular, new home developments often result in class action litigation when one or more homes within a development experiences construction problems. Unlike our PowerLight business’ core activities, where it typically acts as general contractor, it will be generally acting as subcontractor to homebuilders overseeing the development projects. In many instances subcontractors may be held liable for work of the homebuilder or other subcontractors. In addition, homebuilders often require onerous indemnification obligations that effectively allocate most of the potential liability from homeowner or class action lawsuits to subcontractors, including our PowerLight business. Insurance policies for its residential work have significant limitations on coverage that may render such policies inapplicable to these lawsuits. If our PowerLight business is not successful in entering the new residential construction market, or if as a result of the litigation and indemnification risks associated with such market, our PowerLight business incurs significant costs, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If SunPower and PowerLight fail to successfully develop and introduce new products and services, we will not be able to compete effectively, and our ability to generate revenues will suffer; technological changes in the solar power industry could render SunPower’s and PowerLight’s solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate PowerLight’s or other new technology into our products, we will face risks relating to such transitions including, among other things, technical challenges, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, insufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects arising from the integration of new technology and a potentially different sales and support environment relating to any new technology. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into our products could adversely affect our business’ operating results and financial results. The solar power market is characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as increased efficiency and higher power output and improved aesthetics. This will require us to 37 Table of Contents continuously develop new solar power products and enhancements for existing solar power products to keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. Technologies developed by others, including thin film solar panels, concentrating solar cells or other solar technologies, may prove more advantageous than ours for the commercialization of solar power products and may render our technology obsolete. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. SunPower’s research and development expense was $9.7 million in 2006 and $6.5 million in 2005. PowerLight’s net research and development expense after deduction for government funding was $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and $0.5 million in 2005. PowerLight’s total research and development expense before government funding was $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and $2.1 million in 2005. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to maintain our market position, keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and effectively compete in the future. Evaluating SunPower’s business and future prospects may be difficult due to our limited history in producing and shipping solar cells and solar panels in commercial volumes. There is limited historical information available about SunPower upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. Although we began to develop and commercialize high-efficiency solar cell technology for use in solar concentrators in 1988 and began shipping product from our pilot manufacturing facility in 2003, we shipped our first commercial A-300 solar cells from our Philippines manufacturing facility in late 2004. Relative to the entire solar industry, we have shipped only a limited number of solar cells and solar panels and have recognized limited revenue. Our future success will require us to continue to scale our Philippines facilities significantly beyond their current capacity. In addition, our business model, technology and ability to achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields at higher volumes are unproven at significant scale. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly growing market. SunPower and PowerLight’s reliance on government programs to partially fund our research and development programs could impair our ability to commercialize our solar power products and services and increase our research and development expenses. We intend to continue our policy of selectively pursuing contract research, product development and market development programs funded by various agencies of the federal and state governments to complement and enhance our own resources. Funding from government grants is recorded as an offset to our research and development expense. For the nine months ended September 30, 2006 funding from government grants offset approximately 65% of PowerLight’s research and development expense and for the year ended December 31, 2006, government grants offset SunPower’s research and development expense by approximately 8%. These government agencies may not continue their commitment to programs relevant to our development projects. Moreover, we may not be able to compete successfully to obtain funding through these or other programs. A reduction or discontinuance of these programs or of our participation in these programs would materially increase our research and development expenses, which would adversely affect our profitability and could impair our ability to develop our solar power products and services. In addition, contracts involving government agencies may be terminated or modified at the convenience of the agency. Many of our PowerLight business’ government contracts also contain royalty provisions that require it to pay certain amounts based on specified formulas. Government contracts are subject to audit and governmental agencies may dispute its royalty calculations. Any such dispute could result in fines, increased royalty payments, cancellation of the agreement or other penalties, which could have material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Our PowerLight business’ government-sponsored research contracts require that it provide regular written technical updates on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, and, at the conclusion of the research contract, a final 38 Table of Contents report on the results of its technical research. Because these reports are generally available to the public, third parties may obtain some aspects of its sensitive confidential information. Moreover, the failure to provide accurate or complete reports may provide the government with rights to any intellectual property arising from the related research. Funding from government contracts also may limit when and how we can deploy our products and services developed under those contracts. In addition, technology and intellectual property that we develop with government funding provides the government with “march-in” rights. March-in rights refer to the right of the government or a government agency to require us to grant a license to the developed technology or products to a responsible applicant or, if it refuses, the government may grant the license itself. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the technology or because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations or to give the United States industry preference. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than SunPower and PowerLight, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. SunPower’s solar products compete with a large number of competitors in the solar power market, including BP Solar International Inc., Evergreen Solar, Inc., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Q-Cells AG, Sanyo Corporation, Sharp Corporation, First Solar, SolarWorld AG and Suntech Power Holdings Co., Ltd. In addition, universities, research institutions and other companies have brought to market alternative technologies such as thin films and concentrators, which may compete with our technology in certain applications. We expect to face increased competition in the future. Further, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies that may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. PowerLight’s solar power products and services compete against other power generation sources including conventional fossil fuels supplied by utilities, other alternative energy sources such as wind, biomass, CSP and emerging distributed generation technologies such as micro-turbines, sterling engines and fuel cells. In the large-scale on-grid solar power systems market, PowerLight will face direct competition from a number of companies that manufacture, distribute, or install solar power systems. Many of these companies sell PowerLight’s products as well as their own or those of other manufacturers. Our PowerLight business’ primary competitors in the United States include Arizona Public Service Company, BP Solar International, Inc., a subsidiary of BP p.l.c., Conergy Inc., Dome-Tech Group, Eastwood Energy, EI Solutions, Inc., GE Energy, a subsidiary of General Electric Corporation, Global Solar Energy, Inc., a subsidiary of Solon, Power-Fab, Schott Solar, Inc., Solar Integrated Technologies, Inc., SPG Solar, Inc., Sun Edison LLC, SunTechnics Installation & Services, Inc., Thompson Technology Industries, Inc. and WorldWater & Power Corporation. Our PowerLight business’ primary competitors in Europe include BP Solar, Conergy (through its subsidiaries AET Alternitive Energie Technik GmbH, SunTechnics Solartechnik GmbH and voltwerk AG), PV-Systemtechnik Gbr, SAG Solarstrom AG, Solon AG and Taufer Solar GmbH. Additionally, our PowerLight business will occasionally compete with distributed generation equipment suppliers such as Caterpillar, Inc. and Cummins Inc. Other existing and potential competitors in the solar power market include universities and research institutions. We also expect that future competition will include new entrants to the solar power market offering new technological solutions. As we enter new markets and pursues additional applications for our PowerLight business’ products and services, we expect to face increased competition, which may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. Competition is intense, and many of our competitors have significantly greater access to financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, management and other resources than we do. Many also have greater name recognition, a more established distribution network and a larger installed base of customers. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential suppliers, resellers and their 39 Table of Contents customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, these competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion and sale of their products and respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements than we will be able to. Consolidation or strategic alliances among such competitors may strengthen these advantages and may provide them greater access to customers or new technologies. We may also face competition from some of PowerLight’s resellers, who may develop products internally that compete with our PowerLight business’ product and service offerings, or who may enter into strategic relationships with or acquire other existing solar power system providers. To the extent that government funding for research and development grants, customer tax rebates and other programs that promote the use of solar and other renewable forms of energy are limited, we will compete for such funds, both directly and indirectly, with other renewable energy providers and their customers. If we cannot compete successfully in the solar power industry, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Furthermore, we expect competition in PowerLight’s markets to increase, which could result in lower prices or reduced demand for PowerLight’s services and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. SunPower and PowerLight expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures, particularly in our manufacturing facilities, and if adequate funds are not available or if the covenants in our credit agreements impair our ability to raise capital when needed, our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity and our business will suffer. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures, particularly in our manufacturing facilities, including, for example, through building purchases or long-term leases. SunPower and PowerLight anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we expand our manufacturing operations, hire additional personnel, pay more or make advance payments for raw material, especially polysilicon, increase our sales and marketing efforts, invest in joint ventures and acquisitions, and continue our research and development efforts with respect to our products and manufacturing technologies. We expect total capital expenditures of approximately $170 million to $190 million in 2007 to build out facilities and infrastructure for additional cell production lines. We expect the first two or three lines to commence production of solar cells during 2007. These expenditures would be greater if we decide to bring capacity on line more rapidly. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and funds available under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our capital and operating expenditures over the next 12 months. However, if our financial results or operating plans change from our current assumptions, we may not have sufficient resources to support our business plan. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. We may also issue equity securities in the future to suppliers of raw materials in order to secure adequate materials to satisfy our production needs. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could require us to abide by covenants that would restrict our operations. Our credit facilities contain customary covenants and defaults, including, among others, limitations on dividends, incurrence of indebtedness and liens and mergers and acquisitions and may restrict our operating flexibility. If adequate funds are not available or not available on acceptable terms or terms consistent with any new our credit agreement we may enter into, our ability to fund our operations, develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, maintain our research and development efforts or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. The demand for products requiring significant initial capital expenditures such as SunPower’s and PowerLight’s solar power products and services are affected by general economic conditions. The United States and international economies have recently experienced a period of slow economic growth. A sustained economic recovery is uncertain. In particular, terrorist acts and similar events, continued turmoil in the Middle East or war in general could contribute to a slowdown of the market demand for products that require significant initial capital expenditures, including demand for solar cells and solar power systems and new residential and commercial buildings. In addition, increases in interest rates may increase financing costs to 40 Table of Contents customers, which in turn may decrease demand for our solar power products. If the economic recovery slows down as a result of the recent economic, political and social turmoil, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, SunPower and/or PowerLight may experience decreases in the demand for our solar power products, which may harm our operating results. Increases in interest rates may decrease the return on investment for certain customers or investors in projects of PowerLight, which could decrease demand for its products and services and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. PowerLight has benefited from historically low interest rates in recent years, as these rates have made it more attractive for its customers to use debt financing to purchase its solar power systems. Interest rates have been rising and may continue to rise, which will likely increase the cost of financing these systems and may reduce an operating company’s profits and investors’ expected returns on investment. Rising interest rates may also make certain alternative investments more attractive to investors, and therefore lead to a decline in demand for PowerLight’s solar power systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. SunPower depends on a third-party subcontractor in China to assemble a majority of our solar cells into solar panels and any failure to obtain sufficient assembly and test capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our solar panels and damage our customer relationships. Historically, SunPower has relied on Jiawei, a third-party subcontractor in China, to assemble a majority of our solar cells into solar panels and perform panel testing and to manage test, packaging, warehousing and shipping of our solar panels. SunPower does not have a long-term agreement with Jiawei and we typically obtain services from them based on short-term purchase orders that are generally aligned with timing specified by our customers’ purchase orders and our sales forecasts. If the operations of Jiawei were disrupted or their financial stability impaired, or if they should choose not to devote capacity to our solar panels in a timely manner, our business would suffer as we may be unable to produce finished solar panels on a timely basis. In addition, we supply inventory to Jiawei and we bear the risk of loss, theft or damage to our inventory while it is held in their facilities. As a result of outsourcing this final step in our production, we face several significant risks, including: • lack of assembly and testing capacity and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • delays resulting from an inability to move production to an alternate provider. The ability of our subcontractor to perform assembly and test is limited by their available capacity. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with our subcontractor, and it is difficult to accurately forecast our capacity needs because of the shifting mix between sales of solar cells and solar panels and the timing of expanding our manufacturing capacity. Other customers of Jiawei that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements in place, may induce Jiawei to reallocate capacity to them. Any reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of solar panels that we need for our customers. In addition, interruptions to the panel manufacturing processes caused by a natural or man-made disaster could result in partial or complete disruption in supply until we are able to shift manufacturing to another facility. It may not be possible to obtain sufficient capacity or comparable production costs at another facility. Migrating our design methodology to a new third-party subcontractor or to a captive panel assembly facility could involve increased costs, resources and development time. Utilizing additional third party subcontractors could expose us to further risk of losing control over our intellectual property and the quality of our solar panels. Any reduction in the 41 Table of Contents supply of solar panels could impair our revenue by significantly delaying our ability to ship products and potentially damage our relationships with existing customers. One of PowerLight’s key products, PowerTracker® , was acquired through an assignment and acquisition of the patents associated with the product from a third party individual, and if we are unable to continue to use this product, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. In September 2002, PowerLight entered into a Technology Assignment and Services Agreement and other ancillary agreements with Jefferson Shingleton and MaxTracker Services, LLC, a New York limited liability company controlled by Mr. Shingleton. These agreements form the basis for its intellectual property rights in its PowerTracker® products. Under such agreements, as later amended, Mr. Shingleton assigned to PowerLight his MaxTracker™ , MaxRack™ , MaxRack Ballast™ and MaxClip™ products and all related intellectual property rights. Mr. Shingleton is obligated to provide consulting services to PowerLight related to such technology until December 31, 2012 and is required to assign to PowerLight any enhancements he makes to the technology while providing such consulting services. Mr. Shingleton retains a first security interest in the patents and patent applications assigned until the earlier of the expiration of the patents, full payment by PowerLight to Mr. Shingleton of all of the royalty obligations under the Technology Assignment and Services Agreement, or the termination of the Technology Assignment and Services Agreement. In the event of PowerLight’s default under the Technology Assignment and Services Agreement, MaxTracker Services and Mr. Shingleton may terminate the agreements and the related assignments and cause the intellectual rights assigned to it to be returned to Mr. Shingleton or MaxTracker Services, including patents related to PowerTracker® . In addition, upon such termination, PowerLight must grant Mr. Shingleton a perpetual, non-exclusive, royalty-free right and license to use, sell, and otherwise exploit throughout the world any intellectual property MaxTracker Services or Mr. Shingleton developed during the provision of consulting services to PowerLight. Events of default by PowerLight which could enable Mr. Shingleton or Max Tracker Services to terminate the agreements and the related assignments and cause the intellectual rights assigned to it to be returned to Mr. Shingleton or MaxTracker Services include the following: • if PowerLight files a petition in bankruptcy or equivalent order or petition under the laws of any jurisdiction; • if a petition in bankruptcy or equivalent order or petition under the laws of any jurisdiction is filed against it which is not dismissed within 60 days of such filing; • if PowerLight’s assets are assigned for the benefit of creditors; • if PowerLight voluntarily or involuntarily dissolves (except in connection with the Merger, for which PowerLight received a waiver of this condition); • if PowerLight fails to pay any amount due under the agreements when due and does not remedy such failure to pay within 10 days of written notice of such failure to pay; or • if PowerLight defaults in the performance of any of its material obligations under the agreements when required (other than payment of amounts due under the agreements), and such failure is not remedied within 30 days of written notice to it of such default from Mr. Shingleton or MaxTracker Services. However, if such a default can reasonably be cured after the 30-day period, and PowerLight commences cure of such default within 30-day period and diligently prosecutes that cure to completion, such default does not trigger a termination right unless and until PowerLight ceases commercially reasonable efforts to cure such default. If PowerLight is unable to continue to use and sell PowerTracker ® as a result of the termination of the agreements and the related assignment or any other reason, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. 42 Table of Contents SunPower and PowerLight are dependent on our intellectual property, and we may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could result in the loss of significant rights. From time to time, SunPower, PowerLight, our respective customers or third-parties with whom we work may receive letters, including letters from various industry participants, alleging infringement of their patents. Although we are not currently aware of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Also, because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our products. Our third-party suppliers may also become subject to infringement claims, which in turn could negatively impact our business. SunPower ceased use of certain licensed technology for which we have not paid royalties since the second quarter of 2004 because our current products do not use the licensed technology. However, the licensor could challenge these actions and litigate against us. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, our customers or our third-party intellectual property providers, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the International Trade Commission that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of our solar cells. Any of these judgments could materially damage the our business. We may have to develop non-infringing technology, and our failure in doing so or in obtaining licenses to the proprietary rights on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. SunPower or PowerLight may file claims against other parties for infringing our intellectual property that may be very costly and may not be resolved in our favor. We cannot guarantee that infringement of SunPower’s or PowerLight’s intellectual property by other parties does not exist now or that it will not occur in the future. To protect our intellectual property rights and to maintain our competitive advantage, we may file suits against parties who we believe infringe our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, and our enforcement efforts may not be successful. In certain situations, we may have to bring such suit in foreign jurisdictions, in which case we are subject to additional risk as to the result of the proceedings and the amount of damage that we can recover. Certain foreign jurisdictions may not provide protection to intellectual property comparable to that in the United States. Our engagement in intellectual property enforcement actions may negatively impact our financial results. We may not be able to prevent others from using the SunPower and PowerLight names or similar marks in connection with their solar power products which could adversely affect the market recognition of our name and our revenue. “SunPower” is our registered trademark in the United States for use with solar cells and solar panels. We are seeking similar registration of the “SunPower” trademark in foreign countries but we may not be successful in some of these jurisdictions. For example, we have received initial rejection of our application to register the “SunPower” trademark in Canada and Japan based on prior registration by other people. In the foreign jurisdictions where we are unable to obtain this registration or have not tried, others may be able to sell their products using the SunPower trademark which could lead to customer confusion. In addition, if there are jurisdictions where someone else has already established trademark rights in the SunPower name, we may face trademark disputes and may have to market our products with other trademarks, which also could hurt our marketing efforts. We may encounter trademark disputes with companies using marks which are confusingly 43 Table of Contents similar to SunPower which if not resolved favorably could cause our branding efforts to suffer. In addition, we may have difficulty in establishing strong brand recognition with consumers if others use similar marks for similar products. PowerLight holds registered trademarks for PowerLight®, PowerGuard® , PowerTracker® and SunTile® in the United States, registered trademarks for PowerLight® and PowerGuard® in Europe, and a pending trademark application for PowerTilt™ in the United States. It has not registered, and may not be able to register, these trademarks elsewhere. SunPower and PowerLight rely primarily upon copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights, and, if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenue could suffer. SunPower and PowerLight seek to protect our proprietary manufacturing processes, documentation and other written materials primarily under trade secret and copyright laws. We also typically require employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • people may not be deterred from misappropriating our technologies despite the existence of laws or contracts prohibiting it; • policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use; and • the laws of other countries in which we market our solar cells, such as some countries in the Asia/Pacific region, may offer little or no protection for our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights could harm our ability to compete, to generate revenue and to grow our business. Neither SunPower nor PowerLight may obtain sufficient patent protection on the technology embodied in the solar cells or solar system components we currently manufacture and market, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Although SunPower and PowerLight rely primarily on trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect the technology in the solar cells and solar system components we currently manufacture and market, our success and ability to compete in the future may also depend to a significant degree upon obtaining patent protection for our proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2006, in the United States, SunPower owned eight issued patents and jointly owned another three patents, and had 17 U.S. and 12 foreign patent applications pending. These patent applications cover aspects of the technology in the solar cells we currently manufacture and market. Patents that we currently own or license-in do not cover the solar cells that we presently manufacture and market. As of December 31, 2006, including the United States and foreign countries, PowerLight had a total 61 issued patents and 47 pending patent applications. PowerLight intends to continue to seek patent protection for those aspects of its technology, designs, and methodologies and processes that it believes provide significant competitive advantages. PowerLight’s material patents primarily relate to PowerGuard® , PowerTilt™ and PowerTracker®. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if they result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we seek. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. The term of any issued patents would be 20 years from their filing date and if our applications are pending for a long time period, we may have a correspondingly shorter term for any patent that 44 Table of Contents may issue. Our present and future patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could be successful in challenging any issued patents or, alternatively, could develop similar or more advantageous technologies on their own or design around our patents. Also, patent protection in certain foreign countries may not be available or may be limited in scope and any patents obtained may not be as readily enforceable as in the United States, making it difficult for us to effectively protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. Our inability to obtain and enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. If the effective term of SunPower’s or PowerLight’s patents is decreased due to changes in patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenue we derive from products protected by the patents may be decreased. The value of SunPower’s and PowerLight’s patents depends in part on their duration. A shorter period of patent protection means less value of a patent. For example, the United States patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years after the date of the patent’s issuance to 20 years after the earliest effective filing date of the application for a patent, unless the application was pending on June 8, 1995, in which case the term of a patent’s protection expires either 17 years after its issuance or 20 years after its filing, whichever is later. Because the time required from the filing of patent application to issuance of a patent is often longer than three years, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. Also, we may need to refile some of our patent applications and, in these situations, the patent term will be measured from the date of the earliest priority application to which benefit is claimed in such a patent application. This would also shorten our period of patent exclusivity. A shortened period of patent exclusivity may negatively impact our revenue protected by our patents. SunPower’s and PowerLight’s intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. SunPower and PowerLight are required by contract to indemnify some of our customers and our third-party intellectual property providers for certain costs and damages of patent infringement in circumstances where our products are a factor creating the customer’s or these third-party providers’ infringement liability. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers and our third-party providers. We cannot assure you that indemnification claims will not be made or that these claims will not harm our business, operating results or financial condition. The success of SunPower’s and PowerLight’s business depends on the continuing contributions of our key personnel. SunPower and PowerLight rely heavily on the services of our key executive officers, including Thomas H. Werner, our Chief Executive Officer, Emmanuel T. Hernandez, our Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Richard Swanson, our President and Chief Technology Officer, PM Pai, our Chief Operating Officer and Thomas L. Dinwoodie, PowerLight’s Chief Executive Officer. The loss of services of any principal member of our management team, particularly Thomas H. Werner, Emmanuel T. Hernandez, Dr. Richard Swanson, PM Pai and Thomas L. Dinwoodie could adversely impact our operations. In addition, our technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. However, we cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed at the Company for any definite period of time since all of our employees, including Messrs. Werner, Hernandez, Swanson, Pai and Dinwoodie, serve at-will and may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. 45 Table of Contents Our headquarters for both the SunPower and PowerLight businesses, and other facilities, as well as the facilities of certain of our key subcontractors, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our headquarters for both the SunPower and PowerLight businesses, including research and development operations, our manufacturing facilities and the facilities of SunPower’s subcontractor upon which we rely to assemble and test our solar panels are located in countries that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our headquarters and research and development operations are located in the United States, SunPower’s manufacturing facilities is located in the Philippines, and the facilities of SunPower’s subcontractor for assembly and test of solar panels is located in China. Since we do not have redundant facilities, any earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster in these countries could materially disrupt our production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of our solar cells. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines for SunPower or PowerLight. SunPower and PowerLight are required to comply with all foreign, U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding pollution control and protection of the environment. In addition, under some statutes and regulations, a government agency, or other parties, may seek recovery and response costs from operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if the operator was not responsible for such release or otherwise at fault. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. In addition, if more stringent laws and regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new laws and regulations could be substantial. To date such laws and regulations have not had a significant impact on SunPower’s or our PowerLight business’ operations, and we believe that we have all necessary permits to conduct their respective operations as they are presently conducted. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws and regulations, however, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. Under SunPower’s separation agreement with Cypress, SunPower will indemnify Cypress from any environmental liabilities associated with SunPower’s operations and facilities in San Jose, California and the Philippines. SunPower maintains self-insurance for certain indemnities we have made to SunPower’s and PowerLight’s officers and directors. SunPower’s certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify the officers and directors of SunPower and PowerLight for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. We self-insure with respect to potential indemnifiable claims. Although we have insured our officers and directors against certain potential third-party claims for which we are legally or financially unable to indemnify them, we intend to self-insure with respect to potential third-party claims which give rise to direct liability to such third-party or an indemnification duty on our part. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our combined results of operations and cause SunPower and/or PowerLight to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our combined reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is 46 Table of Contents announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conducts our business. For example, accounting policies affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to employee stock option grants, have recently been revised. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, and other agencies have made changes to U.S. GAAP, that required U.S. companies, starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We may have significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grant and other equity awards that could reduce our net income or increase our net loss. In addition, since SunPower and PowerLight historically used equity-related compensation as a component of their total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. If SunPower fails to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Beginning in connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires SunPower to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm annually attest to our evaluation, as well as issue its own opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. We have concluded and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested that SunPower’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006. However, we have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. SunPower is complying with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. However, the continuous process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting, or that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will be able to provide the attestation and opinion required under Section 404 in future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, future non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq Global Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. Our efforts to establish an effective, unified system of internal control over financial reporting with respect to PowerLight could present challenges and we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud on a combined basis. PowerLight has not been required to prepare a report on the effectiveness of its internal controls over financial reporting because it was not subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In August 2006, PowerLight’s audit committee received a letter from its independent auditors identifying certain material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting relating to its audits for 2005, 2004 and 2003. These material weaknesses included problems with financial statement close processes and procedures, inadequate accounting resources, unsatisfactory application of the percentage of completion accounting method, inaccurate physical inventory counts, incorrect accounting for complex capital transactions and inadequate disclosure of related party transactions. In addition, PowerLight had to restate its 2004 and 2003 financial statements to correct previously reported amounts primarily related to its contract revenue, contract costs, accrued warranty, California state sales tax accrual and inventory items. We have begun remediation efforts with respect to the material weaknesses identified by PowerLight’s independent auditors. Although initiated, our plan to improve the effectiveness of the internal controls and processes at PowerLight is not complete. It will take some time to put in place the rigorous disclosure controls and procedures desired by our management and our board of directors. While we expect to complete this remediation process as quickly as possible, doing so depends on several factors beyond our control, including the hiring of additional 47 Table of Contents qualified personnel and, as a result, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take to complete the steps identified above. Our management will continue to evaluate the effectiveness of the control environment at PowerLight and will continue to refine existing controls. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date or any future measures will remediate the material weaknesses reported by PowerLight’s independent auditors. Additional deficiencies in PowerLight’s or our internal controls may be discovered in the future. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our prior period financial statements. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. We are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the Exchange Act Rules. We are required to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for the first time in this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, although our report on our internal controls over financial reporting is not required to include an assessment of PowerLight’s internal controls until our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (the first fiscal year to end after the date of the Merger), unanticipated factors may hinder the effectiveness or delay the integration of SunPower’s and PowerLight’s control systems. We cannot predict whether we will be able to establish an effective, unified system of internal controls over financial reporting. SunPower faces competition in the market for our imaging detectors and infrared detectors, and if we fail to compete effectively, we will lose or fail to gain market share. SunPower competes with companies such as Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. and UDT Sensors, Inc. in the market for high performance imaging detectors. In addition we compete with companies such as Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., Rohm Co., Ltd. and Agilent Technologies, Inc. in the market for infrared detectors. We may face competition in the future from other manufacturers of high performance imaging detectors, infrared detectors or alternative devices. The use of alternative devices, including low power, high data rate wireless protocols, may replace existing detectors and limit our market opportunity. Our current and future competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and greater financial, sales and marketing, technical and other resources than us or may develop technologies superior to those incorporated in our imaging detectors and infrared detectors. If we fail to compete successfully, we may be unable to expand our customer base for our imaging detectors and our business would suffer. Because of the lengthy sales cycles for SunPower’s imaging detectors and the relatively fixed nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our imaging detectors. SunPower’s sales cycles from design to manufacture of our imaging detectors can typically take 12 to 18 months. Sales cycles for our imaging detectors are lengthy for a number of reasons, including: • our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our imaging detectors before they place a purchase order; • the commercial adoption of our imaging detectors is typically limited during the initial release of their products to evaluate performance and consumer demand; • failure to deliver a product in a timely manner can seriously delay or cancel introduction; and • the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating complex technology frequently are delayed or canceled. As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, SunPower may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenue. If customer cancellations or product changes occur, this could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our operating expenses. 48 Table of Contents SunPower’s debt agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. The agreements governing SunPower’s credit facilities contain, and any of our other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt or issue guarantees; • create liens; • make certain investments; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • sell certain assets; • redeem capital stock or make other restricted payments; • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and • merge or consolidate with any person. In addition, our credit facilities contain additional affirmative and negative covenants that are more restrictive than those contained in the indenture governing the debentures. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the debentures and our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. Provisions of SunPower’s debentures issued in February 2007 could discourage an acquisition of us by a third party. Certain provisions of the $200.0 million in principal amount of 1.25% senior convertible debentures we issued in February could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the debentures will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase, at a cash repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest on the debentures, all of their debentures or any portion of the principal amount of such debentures in integral multiples of $1,000. We may also be required to issue additional shares of our class A common stock upon conversion of the debentures in the event of certain fundamental changes. Risks Related to SunPower’s Class A Common Stock The effect of the issuance of our shares of class A common stock pursuant to the share lending agreement, including sales of our class A common stock in short sale transactions by purchasers of the Debentures, may lower the market price of our class A common stock. Concurrently with our February 2007 offering of debentures, we offered 2,947,132 shares of our class A common stock, all of which are being borrowed by an affiliate of Lehman Brothers Inc., under a share lending agreement we have entered into with such affiliate and Lehman Brothers Inc. We will not receive any proceeds from that offering of class A common stock, but we will receive a nominal lending fee from that affiliate. Such loaned shares must be returned to us by February 15, 2027, or earlier in certain circumstances. Such affiliate of Lehman Brothers Inc. has agreed to use such sales to facilitate the establishment by the debenture 49 Table of Contents investors of hedged positions in the offering of our debentures. The market price of our class A common stock could be negatively affected by these or other short sales of our class A common stock by the purchasers of the debentures to hedge investments in the debentures. In addition, the effect of the increase in the number of outstanding shares of our class A common stock issued pursuant to the share lending agreement could have a negative effect on the market price of our class A common stock. Conversion of the debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. To the extent we issue class A common stock upon conversion of the debentures, the conversion of some or all of the debentures will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. Any sales in the public market of the class A common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our class A common stock. In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could depress the price of our class A common stock. Substantial future sales or other dispositions of our class A common stock or other securities could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of our class A common stock in the public market or sales of any of our other securities, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our class A common stock to decline. As of February 23, 2007, SunPower had 22,318,702 shares of class A common stock outstanding, and Cypress owned the 52,033,287 outstanding shares of SunPower’s class B common stock, representing approximately 70% of the total outstanding shares of SunPower’s common stock. Cypress may convert these shares into class A common stock at any time. Cypress has no contractual obligation to retain its shares of class A common stock, except that Cypress has agreed not to sell or distribute any of its shares of our common stock without the consent of Lehman Brothers Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC until 60 days after February 2, 2007, the date of prospectus supplement for the debentures. Subject to applicable United States federal and state securities laws, Cypress may sell or distribute to its stockholders any or all of the shares of our common stock that it owns, which may or may not include the sale of a controlling interest in us. Cypress announced on October 6, 2006 and reiterated on October 19, 2006 that it was exploring ways in which to allow its stockholders to fully realize the value of its investment in SunPower. Cypress has made public statements since October 19, 2006 that were consistent with these announcements. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering 6,332,549 shares of SunPower class A common stock issuable under outstanding options under SunPower’s 1988 Incentive Stock Plan, under SunPower’s 1996 Stock Plan and under non-plan options granted to employees and consultants and 147,286 shares reserved for future issuance as of December 31, 2006 under SunPower’s 2005 Stock Incentive Plan. We have also registered for resale up to 4,106,884 shares of class A common stock for resale by holders of former PowerLight shares. These shares are available for sale in the open market, although sales of shares held by PowerLight shareholders who are now affiliates of SunPower will be subject to sales restrictions under the Securities Act. In addition, we recently filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering 1,602,027 shares of class A common stock issuable pursuant to options, some of which are subject to vesting, assumed pursuant to the Merger. If Cypress elects to convert its shares of class B common stock into shares of class A common stock, an additional 52,033,287 shares of class A common stock will be available for sale, subject to customary sales restrictions. In addition, except for a limited time in connection with the Merger, Cypress has the right to cause us to register the sale of its shares of class A common stock under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares, other than shares purchased by our affiliates, becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. 50 Table of Contents If Cypress distributes to its stockholders shares of class A common stock that it owns, substantially all of these shares would be eligible for immediate resale in the public market. We are unable to predict whether significant amounts of class A common stock would be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or after, any such distribution. We also are unable to predict whether a sufficient number of buyers for shares of our class A common stock would be in the market at that time. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our class A common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business or our market. We have only been a public company since our initial public offering in November 2005, and accordingly our stock is covered by fewer securities analysts than that of more mature public companies. If one or more of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The price of our class A common stock, and therefore of the debentures may fluctuate significantly, and a liquid trading market for our class A common stock may not be sustained. Our class A common stock has a limited trading history in the public markets. The trading price of our class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and in the risk factors incorporated by reference. In addition, the stock market in general, and The Nasdaq Global Market and the securities of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations, including our own market valuation and those of companies in our industry generally, may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Moreover, because the debentures are convertible into our class A common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our class A common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the debentures. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The difference in the voting rights of our class A and our class B common stock may reduce the value and liquidity of our class A common stock. The rights of class A and class B common stock are substantially similar, except with respect to voting, conversion and other protective provisions. The class B common stock is entitled to eight votes per share and the class A common stock is entitled to one vote per share. The difference in the voting rights of our class A and class B common stock both before and after any distribution of our class B common stock by Cypress to its stockholders could reduce the value of the class A common stock to the extent that any investor or potential future purchaser of our common stock ascribes value to the right of class B common stock to eight votes per share. The existence of two classes of common stock could result in less liquidity for either class of common stock than if there were only one class of our common stock. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; 51 Table of Contents • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,042,490 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; and • in the event that Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries no longer collectively own shares of our common stock equal to at least 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes: • our board of directors will be divided into three classes of directors, with the classes to be as nearly equal in number as possible; • no action can be taken by stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders called in accordance with our bylaws, and stockholders may not act by written consent; • stockholders may not call special meetings of the stockholders; and • our board of directors will be able to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval. Until such time as Cypress, its successor in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes, the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the then-authorized number of members of our board of directors will be required to: (1) adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or certificate of incorporation; (2) appoint or remove our chief executive officer; (3) designate, appoint or allow for the nomination or recommendation for election by our stockholders of an individual to our board of directors; (4) change the size of our board of directors to be other than five members; (5) form a committee of our board of directors or establish or change a charter, committee responsibilities or committee membership of any committee of our board of directors; (6) adopt any stockholder rights plan, “poison pill” or other similar arrangement; or (7) approve any transactions that would involve a merger, consolidation, restructuring, sale of substantially all of our assets or any of our subsidiaries or otherwise result in any person or entity obtaining control of us or any of our subsidiaries. Cypress may at any time in its sole discretion waive this requirement to obtain such a supermajority vote of our board of directors. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than they would without these provisions. As a result of SunPower’s offering of debentures completed in February 2007, we will have a significant amount of debt. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the debentures and our other debt. As a result of our $200.0 million debenture offering completed in February 2007, we have significant indebtedness and substantial debt service requirements. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the debentures and our other outstanding debt; 52 Table of Contents • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable; • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases on our indebtedness with variable interest rates, including borrowings under our amended senior credit facility; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the debentures and our other debt. Our ability to meet our payment and other obligations under our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate significant cash flow in the future. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our existing or any amended credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our payment obligations under the debentures and our other debt and to fund other liquidity needs. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, including the debentures, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. If we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to meet our payment obligations under the debentures and our other debt. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Cypress Semiconductor Corporation As long as Cypress controls us, the ability of our other stockholders to influence matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited. As of February 23, 2007, Cypress owned all 52,033,287 shares of outstanding SunPower class B common stock, representing approximately 70% of the total outstanding shares of SunPower common stock, or approximately 64% of such shares on a fully diluted basis after taking into account outstanding options, and 95% of the voting power of SunPower’s outstanding capital stock. Shares of class A common stock and class B common stock have substantially similar rights, preferences and privileges except with respect to voting and conversion rights and other protective provisions. Shares of class B common stock are entitled to eight votes per share of class B common stock, and shares of class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share of class A common stock. If Cypress transfers shares of class B common stock to any party other than a successor in interest or a subsidiary of Cypress prior to a tax-free distribution to its stockholders, those shares would automatically convert into shares of class A common stock. Other than through such transfers or voluntary conversions by Cypress of shares of class B common stock into shares of class A common stock, only at such time, if at all, that Cypress, its successors in interest (not including its stockholders following a dissolution) and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding will all shares of class B common stock automatically convert into shares of our class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. Until such time, by virtue of the voting power afforded the shares of class B common stock, Cypress will be able to effectively elect all of the members of our board of directors. In addition, until such time as Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer 53 Table of Contents consolidating us for accounting purposes, Cypress will have the ability to take stockholder action without the vote of any other stockholder and, by virtue of the voting power afforded the shares of class B common stock, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote during this period. As a result, Cypress will have the ability to control all matters affecting us, including: • the composition of our board of directors and, through the board of directors, any determination with respect to the Combined Company’s business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing activities; • changes to the agreements providing for our separation from Cypress; • the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for us; • the payment of dividends on the class A common stock; and • the number of shares available for issuance under our stock plans. Cypress’s voting control may discourage transactions involving a change of control of SunPower, including transactions in which holders of class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. Except for a limited time in connection with the Merger, Cypress is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without approval of holders of class A common stock and without providing for a purchase of class A common stock. Accordingly, shares of class A common stock may be worth less than they would be if Cypress did not maintain voting control over us. Our ability to continue to manufacture our imaging detectors and our solar cells in our current facilities with our current and planned manufacturing capacities, and therefore to maintain and increase revenue and achieve profitability, depends to a large extent upon the continued success of our relationship with Cypress. Our imaging detectors are manufactured for us by Cypress and are processed and tested in our San Jose, California facility. We do not have a long-term fixed-price agreement with Cypress for the manufacturing of our imaging detectors, but instead operate on a purchase order basis. The processes for manufacturing our imaging detectors are highly complex, specialized and proprietary. If Cypress is unable to continue manufacturing our imaging detectors for us, our manufacturing output would be interrupted and delayed, and we would incur increased expenses in establishing relationships with alternative manufacturers at market prices. We may not be able to find alternative manufacturers on terms acceptable to us, and we may be unable to establish our own operations in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all. We manufacture our solar cells in our Philippines manufacturing facility which we lease from Cypress. We are in the process of expanding existing facilities for solar and panel assembly. If we are unable to expand in our current facility or are required to move our manufacturing facility, we would incur significant expenses as well as lost sales. Furthermore, we may not be able to locate a facility that meets our needs on terms acceptable to us. Any of these circumstances would increase our expenses and decrease our total revenue and could prevent us from sustaining profitability. Our historical financial information as a business segment of Cypress may not be representative of our results as an independent public company. Our historical financial information does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity. The historical costs and expenses reflected in our audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements include an allocation for certain 54 Table of Contents corporate functions historically provided by Cypress, including centralized legal, tax, treasury, information technology, employee benefits and other Cypress corporate services and infrastructure costs. These expense allocations were based on what we and Cypress considered reasonable reflections of the utilization of services provided or the benefit received by us. Our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or costs and expenses will be in the future. We have not made adjustments to such historical financial information to reflect many significant changes that occurred or may yet occur in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our separation from Cypress, including changes in our employee base, changes in our tax structure, potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with being a publicly traded, stand-alone company. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we are unable to cost-effectively establish our own administrative and other support functions in order to operate as a stand-alone company after the expiration of our services agreements with Cypress. As a subsidiary of Cypress, we have relied on administrative and other resources of Cypress to operate our business. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into various service agreements to retain the ability for specified periods to use these Cypress resources. These agreements will expire upon the earlier or November 2009 or a change of control of our Company. We need to create our own administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace Cypress’ systems. In addition, we recently established disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as part of our becoming a separate public company in November 2005. These services may not be provided at the same level as when we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Cypress, and we may not be able to obtain the same benefits that we received prior to the separation. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and after our agreements with Cypress expire, we may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at prices and on terms as favorable as we currently have with Cypress. Any failure or significant downtime in our own administrative systems or in Cypress’ administrative systems during the transitional period could result in unexpected costs, impact our results and/or prevent us from paying our suppliers or employees and performing other administrative services on a timely basis. We may experience increased costs resulting from a decrease in our purchasing power and we may have difficulty obtaining new customers due to our relatively small size after our separation from Cypress. Historically, we were able to take advantage of Cypress’ size and purchasing power in procuring goods, technology and services, including insurance, employee benefit support and audit services. We are a smaller company than Cypress, and we cannot assure you that we will have access to financial and other resources comparable to those available to us prior to our separation from Cypress. These risks would be come more pronounced if Cypress were to cease to own a majority of our stock. As an independent company, we may be unable to obtain goods, technology and services at prices or on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to our separation from Cypress, which could increase our costs and reduce our profitability. In addition, as a smaller, separate, stand-alone company, we may encounter more customer concerns about our viability as a separate entity, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to maintain our current relationships with existing customers, and we may have difficulty attracting new customers. Our agreements with Cypress require us to indemnify Cypress for certain tax liabilities. These indemnification obligations may limit our ability to obtain additional financing or participate in future acquisitions for up to two years. We have entered into a tax sharing agreement with Cypress, under which we and Cypress agree to indemnify one another for certain taxes and similar obligations that the other party could incur under certain circumstances. In general, we will be responsible for taxes relating to our business. Furthermore, we may be held jointly and severally liable for taxes determined on a consolidated basis even though Cypress is required to 55 Table of Contents indemnify us for its taxes pursuant to the tax sharing agreement. After the date we cease to be a member of Cypress’ consolidated group for federal income tax purposes or state income tax purposes, as and to the extent that we become entitled to utilize on our separate tax returns portions of those credit or loss carryforwards existing as of such date, we will distribute to Cypress the tax effect (estimated to be 34% for federal income tax purposes) of the amount of such tax loss carryforwards so utilized and the amount of any credit carryforwards so utilized. We will distribute these amounts to Cypress in cash or in our shares, at our option. Upon completion of our follow-on public offering of class A common stock in June 2006, we were no longer considered to be a member of Cypress’ consolidated group for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, we will be subject to the obligations payable to Cypress for any federal income tax credit or loss carryforwards utilized in its federal tax returns. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $50.6 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards and approximately $4.8 million of California net operating loss carryforwards, meaning that such potential future payments to Cypress, which would be made over a period of several years, would therefore aggregate between $15.0 million and $16.0 million. If Cypress distributes our class B common stock to Cypress stockholders in a transaction intended to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, Cypress intends to obtain an opinion of counsel to the effect that such distribution qualifies under Section 355 of the Code. Despite such an opinion, however, the distribution may nonetheless be taxable to Cypress under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of our voting power or economic value is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution of our stock. The tax sharing agreement includes our obligation to indemnify Cypress for any liability incurred as a result of issuances or dispositions of our stock after the distribution, other than liability attributable solely to certain dispositions of our stock by Cypress, that cause Cypress’ distribution of shares of our stock to its stockholders to be taxable to Cypress under Section 355(e) of the Code. Under current law, following a distribution by Cypress and for up to two years thereafter, our obligation to indemnify Cypress will be triggered only if we issue stock or otherwise participate in one or more transactions other than the distribution in which 50% or more of our voting power or economic value is acquired in financing or acquisition transactions that are part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. If such an indemnification obligation is triggered, the extent of our liability to Cypress will generally equal the product of (a) Cypress’ top marginal federal and state income tax rate for the year of the distribution, and (b) the difference between the fair market value of our class B common stock distributed to Cypress stockholders and Cypress’ tax basis in such stock as determined on the date of the distribution. Our ability to use our equity to obtain additional financing or to engage in acquisition transactions for a period of time after a distribution will be restricted if we can only sell or issue a limited amount of our stock before triggering our obligation to indemnify Cypress for taxes it incurs under Section 355(e) of the Code. For example, under the current tax rules, if Cypress were to make a complete distribution of its class B common stock and our total outstanding capital stock at the time of such distribution was 69,000,000 shares, unless we qualified for one of several safe harbor exemptions available under the Treasury Regulations, in order to avoid our indemnification obligation to Cypress, we could not, for up two years from the date of Cypress’ distribution, issue 69,000,000 or more shares of class A common stock, nor could we participate in one or more transactions (excluding the distribution itself) in which 34,500,000 or more shares of our then existing class A common stock were to be acquired in connection with a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. In addition, these limits could be lower depending on certain actions that we or Cypress might take before or after a distribution. If we were to participate in such a transaction, assuming Cypress distributed 52,000,000 shares, Cypress’ top marginal income tax rate is 40% for federal and state income tax purposes, the fair market value of our class B common stock is $42.00 per share and Cypress’ tax basis in such stock is $5.00 per share on the date of their distribution, then our liability under our indemnification obligation to Cypress would be approximately $769.6 million. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Cypress. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for Cypress’ liabilities. Under our separation agreements with Cypress, Cypress will indemnify us for claims and losses relating to liabilities related to Cypress’ business and 56 Table of Contents not related to our business. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Cypress. Our inability to resolve any disputes that arise between us and Cypress with respect to our past and ongoing relationships may result in a significant reduction of our revenue. Disputes may arise between Cypress and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Cypress; • the cost of wafers for our imaging detectors; • employee retention and recruiting; • business combinations involving us; • pricing for transitional services; • sales or distributions by Cypress of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; • the nature, quality and pricing of services Cypress has agreed to provide us; and • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Cypress and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The agreements we entered into with Cypress may be amended upon agreement between the parties. While we are controlled by Cypress, we may not have the leverage to negotiate amendments to these agreements if required on terms as favorable to us as those we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party. Some of our directors and executive officers may have conflicts of interest because of their ownership of Cypress common stock, options to acquire Cypress common stock and positions with Cypress. Some of our directors and executive officers own Cypress common stock and options to purchase Cypress common stock. In addition, some of our directors are executive officers and/or directors of Cypress. Ownership of Cypress common stock and options to purchase Cypress common stock by our directors and officers and the presence of executive officers or directors of Cypress on our board of directors could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving both us and Cypress. For example, corporate opportunities may arise that concern both of our businesses, such as the potential acquisition of a particular business or technology that is complementary to both of our businesses. In these situations, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that directors and officers who are also directors or officers of Cypress have no duty to communicate or present such corporate opportunity to us unless it is specifically applicable to the solar energy business and not applicable to or reasonably related to any business conducted by Cypress, have the right to deal with such corporate opportunity in their sole discretion and shall not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that such director or officer pursues or acquires such corporate opportunity for itself or for Cypress. In addition, we have not established at this time any procedural mechanisms to address actual or perceived conflicts of interest of these directors and officers and expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, will determine how to address any actual or perceived conflicts of interest on a case-by-case basis. If any corporate opportunity arises and if our directors and officers do not pursue it on our behalf pursuant to the provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we may not become aware of, and may potentially lose, a significant business opportunity. 57 Table of Contents Because Cypress is not obligated to distribute to its stockholders or otherwise dispose of our common stock that it owns, we will continue to be subject to the risks described above relating to Cypress’ control of us if Cypress does not complete such a transaction. Cypress is not obligated to distribute to its stockholders or otherwise dispose of the shares of our class B common stock that it beneficially owns, although it might elect to do so in the future. Cypress announced on October 6, 2006 and reiterated on October 19, 2006 that it was exploring ways in which to allow its stockholders to fully realize the value its investment in us. Cypress has made public statements since October 19, 2006 that were consistent with these announcements. Moreover, completion of any such transaction could be contingent upon, among other things, the receipt of a favorable tax ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and/or a favorable opinion of Cypress’ tax advisor as to the tax-free nature of such a transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Unless and until such a distribution occurs or Cypress otherwise disposes of shares so that it, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding, we will continue to face the risks described above relating to Cypress’ control of us and potential conflicts of interest between Cypress and us. We may be unable to realize potential benefits that could result from such a distribution by Cypress, such as greater strategic focus, greater access to capital markets, better incentives for employees and more accountable management, although we cannot guarantee that we would realize any of these potential benefits if such a distribution did occur. In addition, speculation by the press, investment community, our customers, our competitors or others regarding whether Cypress intends to complete such a distribution or otherwise dispose of its controlling interest in us could harm our business or lead to volatility in our stock price. So long as Cypress continues to hold a controlling interest in us or is otherwise a significant stockholder, the liquidity and market price of our class A common stock may be adversely impacted. In addition, there can be no assurance that Cypress will distribute or otherwise dispose of any of its shares of our class B common stock. Cypress’ ability to replace our board of directors may make it difficult for us to recruit independent directors. Cypress may at any time replace our entire board of directors. Furthermore, some actions of our board of directors require the approval of 75% of our directors except to the extent this condition is waived by Cypress. As a result, unless and until Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes, Cypress could exercise significant control over our board of directors. As such, individuals who might otherwise accept a board position at SunPower may decline to serve, and Cypress may be able to control important decisions made by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 