Risk Factors - We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures, particularly in our manufacturing facilities, and if adequate funds are not available or if the covenants in our credit agreements impair our ability to raise capital when needed, our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity and our business will suffer.” Our outstanding debentures are effectively subordinated to any existing and future secured indebtedness and structurally subordinated to existing and future liabilities and other indebtedness of our subsidiaries. Our outstanding debentures are our general, unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured indebtedness. All of our $425.0 million in outstanding principal amount of debentures rate equally in right of payment. Our outstanding debentures are effectively subordinated to our existing and any future secured indebtedness we may have to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness, and structurally subordinated to any existing and future liabilities and other indebtedness of our subsidiaries. These liabilities may include indebtedness, trade payables, guarantees, lease obligations and letter of credit obligations. The debentures do not restrict us or our subsidiaries from incurring indebtedness, including senior secured indebtedness in the future, nor do they limit the amount of indebtedness we can issue that is equal in right of payment. The terms of our outstanding debentures do not contain restrictive covenants and provide only limited protection in the event of a change of control. The indentures under which our outstanding debentures were issued do not contain restrictive covenants that would protect holders from several kinds of transactions that may adversely affect them. In particular, the indentures do not contain covenants that will limit our ability to pay dividends or make distributions on or redeem our capital stock or limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness and, therefore, may not protect holders of our debentures in the event of a highly leveraged transaction or other similar transaction. The requirement that we offer to repurchase our outstanding debentures upon a change of control is limited to the transactions specified in the definitions of a “fundamental change” in the indentures. Similarly, the circumstances under which we are required to adjust the conversion rate upon the occurrence of a “non-stock change of control” are limited to circumstances where a debenture is converted in connection with such a transaction as set forth in the indentures. Accordingly, subject to restrictions contained in our other debt agreements, we could enter into certain transactions, such as acquisitions, refinancings or recapitalizations, that could affect our capital structure and the value of the debentures and our class A common stock but would not constitute a fundamental change under the debentures. - 41 - - Table of Contents We may be unable to repurchase the debentures for cash when required by the holders, including following a fundamental change. Holders of our outstanding debentures have the right to require us to repurchase such debentures on specified dates or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change prior to maturity as described in the indentures governing such debentures. We may not have sufficient funds to make the required repurchase in cash at such time or the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our ability to repurchase the debentures in cash may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our debt outstanding at the time, including our current credit facility which limits our ability to purchase the debentures for cash in certain circumstances. If we fail to repurchase the debentures in cash as required by the indenture governing the debentures, it would constitute an event of default under each indenture governing our outstanding debentures, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under our credit facility and the other indenture. Some significant restructuring transactions may not constitute a fundamental change, in which case we would not be obligated to offer to repurchase our outstanding debentures. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, holders of our debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase their debentures. However, the fundamental change provisions of our indentures will not afford protection to holders of debentures in the event of certain transactions. For example, transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations, refinancings, restructurings or acquisitions initiated by us, as well as stock acquisitions by certain companies, would not constitute a fundamental change requiring us to repurchase the debentures. In the event of any such transaction, holders of debentures would not have the right to require us to repurchase their debentures, even though each of these transactions could increase the amount of our indebtedness, or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings, thereby adversely affecting the holders of our debentures. The adjustment to the conversion rates of our outstanding debentures upon the occurrence of certain types of fundamental changes may not adequately compensate holders for the lost option time value of their debentures as a result of such fundamental change. If certain types of fundamental changes occur prior to August 1, 2010 with respect to our 0.75% debentures or prior to February 13, 2012 with respect to our 1.25% debentures, we may adjust the conversion rate of the debentures to increase the number of shares issuable upon conversion. The number of additional shares to be added to the conversion rate will be determined based on the date on which the fundamental change becomes effective and the price paid per share of our class A common stock in the fundamental change as described in the indentures for such debentures. Although this adjustment is designed to compensate holders for the lost option value of their debentures as a result of certain types of fundamental changes, the adjustment is only an approximation of such lost value based upon assumptions made at the time when their debentures were issued and may not adequately compensate them for such loss. In addition, with respect to our 0.75% debentures, if the price paid per share of our class A common stock in the fundamental change is less than $64.50 or more than $155.00 (subject to adjustment), or if such transaction occurs on or after August 1, 2010, there will be no such adjustment. Moreover, in no event will the total number of shares issuable upon conversion as a result of this adjustment exceed 15.5039 per $1,000 principal amount of the 0.75% debentures, subject to adjustment for stock splits, combinations and the like. With respect to our 1.25% debentures, if the price paid per share of our class A common stock in the fundamental change is less than $44.51 or more than $135.00 (subject to adjustment), or if such transaction occurs on or after February 15, 2012, there will be no such adjustment. Moreover, in no event will the total number of shares issuable upon conversion as a result of this adjustment exceed 22.4668 per $1,000 principal amount of the 1.25% debentures, subject to adjustment for stock splits, combinations and the like. There is currently no public market for our outstanding debentures, and an active trading market may not develop for these debentures. The failure of a market to develop for our debentures could adversely affect the liquidity and value of our debentures. We do not intend to apply for listing of the debentures on any securities exchange or for quotation of the debentures on any automated dealer quotation system. Although we have been advised by the underwriters that the underwriters intend to make a market in the debentures, none of the underwriters is obligated to do so and may discontinue market making at any time without notice. No assurance can be given as to the liquidity of the trading market, if any, for the debentures. An active market may not develop for any of our outstanding debentures, and there can be no assurance as to the liquidity of any market that may develop for the debentures. If active, liquid markets do not develop for our debentures, the market price and liquidity of the affected debentures may be adversely affected. Any of the debentures may trade at a discount from their initial offering price. The liquidity of the trading market and future trading prices of our debentures will depend on many factors, including, among other things, the market price of our class A common stock, prevailing interest rates, our operating results, financial performance and prospects, the market for similar securities and the overall securities market, and may be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in these factors. - 42 - - Table of Contents Historically, the market for convertible debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused volatility in prices. It is possible that the market for our debentures will be subject to disruptions which may have a negative effect on the holders of these debentures, regardless of our operating results, financial performance or prospects. Upon any conversion of our outstanding debentures, we will pay cash in lieu of issuing shares of our class A common stock with respect to an amount up to the principal amount of debentures converted. We retain the right to satisfy any remaining conversion obligation, in whole or part, in additional shares of class A common stock or, in the case of our 0.75% debentures, in cash, based upon a predetermined formula. Therefore, upon conversion, holders of our debentures may not receive any shares of our class A common stock, or may receive fewer shares than the number into which their debentures would otherwise be convertible. Upon any conversion of debentures, we will pay cash in lieu of issuing shares of our common stock with respect to an amount up to the principal amount of debentures converted. We retain the right to satisfy any remaining conversion obligation, in whole or part, in additional shares of our class A common stock or, in the case of our 0.75% debentures, in cash, with respect to the conversion value in excess thereof, based on a daily conversion value (as defined herein) calculated based on a proportionate basis for each day of the 20 trading day conversion period. Accordingly, upon conversion of debentures, holders may not receive any shares of our class A common stock. In addition, because of the 20 trading day calculation period, in certain cases, settlement will be delayed until at least the 26th trading day following the related conversion date. Moreover, upon conversion of debentures, holders may receive less proceeds than expected because the price of our class A common stock may decrease (or not appreciate as much as they may expect) between the conversion date and the day the settlement amount of their debentures is determined. Further, as a result of cash payments, our liquidity may be reduced upon conversion of the debentures. In addition, in the event of our bankruptcy, insolvency or certain similar proceedings during the conversion period, there is a risk that a bankruptcy court may decide a holder’s claim to receive such cash and/or shares could be subordinated to the claims of our creditors as a result of such holder’s claim being treated as an equity claim in bankruptcy. As of the first trading day of the first quarter in fiscal 2008, holders of the outstanding debentures are able to exercise their right to convert the debentures any day in that fiscal quarter because the closing price of our class A common stock equaled or exceeded $70.94 and $102.80, which represents more than 125% of the applicable conversion price for our 1.25% and 0.75% outstanding debentures, respectively, for at least 20 of the last 30 trading days during the preceding fiscal quarter. This test is repeated each fiscal quarter, and prior to August 1, 2025, holders of our outstanding debentures may only exercise their right to convert during a fiscal quarter in which the test was met. After August 1, 2025, the debentures are convertible at any time. In the event of conversion by holders of the outstanding debentures, the principal amount must be settled in cash and to the extent that the conversion obligation exceeds the principal amount of any debentures converted, we must satisfy the remaining conversion obligation of the February 2007 debentures in shares of our class A common stock, and we maintain the right to satisfy the remaining conversion obligation of the July 2007 debentures in shares of our class A common stock or cash. We intend to fund such obligations, if any, through existing cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations and, if necessary, borrowings under our credit agreement with Wells Fargo and/or potential availability of future sources of funding. We believe that it is unlikely that a significant percentage of holders of the outstanding debentures will exercise their right to convert in the near future because they would likely receive less value upon conversion than the current market value of the debentures based on the debentures’ trading prices quoted on Bloomberg in January and February 2008. However, there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case. As of February 29, 2008, no holders of the outstanding debentures exercised their right to convert the debentures. As of December 30, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of $285.2, while the aggregate outstanding principal balance due under the debentures was $425.0 million. For more information about our convertible debentures, please see “Liquidity” within “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The conditional conversion features of our outstanding debentures could result in holders receiving less than the value of the class A common stock into which a debenture would otherwise be convertible. At certain times, the debentures are convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of our class A common stock only if specified conditions are met. If these conditions are not met, holders will not be able to convert their debentures at that time, and, upon a later conversion, holders may not be able to receive the value of the class A common stock into which the debentures would otherwise have been convertible had such conditions been met. - 43 - - Table of Contents The conversion rate of our outstanding debentures may not be adjusted for all dilutive events that may adversely affect their trading prices or the class A common stock issuable upon conversion of these debentures. The conversion rates of our outstanding debentures are subject to adjustment upon certain events, including the issuance of stock dividends on our class A common stock, the issuance of rights or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of capital stock, indebtedness or assets, cash dividends and issuer tender or exchange offers. The conversion rates will not be adjusted for certain other events, including, for example, upon the issuance of additional shares of stock for cash, any of which may adversely affect the trading price of our debentures or the class A common stock issuable upon conversion of the debentures. Even if the conversion price is adjusted for a dilutive event, such as a leveraged recapitalization, it may not fully compensate holders for their economic loss. Holders of our debentures will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our class A common stock, but they will be subject to all changes made with respect to our class A common stock. Holders of our debentures will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our class A common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our class A common stock), but they will be subject to all changes affecting our class A common stock. Holders will have rights with respect to our class A common stock only if they convert their debentures, which they are permitted to do only in limited circumstances. For example, in the event that an amendment is proposed to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to delivery of our class A common stock to holders, they will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although they will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or rights of our class A common stock. Our outstanding debentures may not be rated or may receive lower ratings than anticipated. We do not intend to seek a rating on any of our outstanding debentures. However, if one or more rating agencies rates these debentures and assigns them a rating lower than the rating expected by investors, or reduces their ratings in the future, the market price of the affected debentures and our class A common stock could be reduced. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Cypress Semiconductor Corporation As long as Cypress controls us, the ability of our other stockholders to influence matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited. As of December 30, 2007, Cypress owned all 44.5 million shares of outstanding our class B common stock, representing approximately 56% of the total outstanding shares of our common stock, or approximately 51% of such shares on a fully diluted basis after taking into account outstanding options (or 49% of such shares on a fully diluted basis after taking into account outstanding stock options and loaned shares to underwriters of our convertible indebtedness), and 90% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Shares of our class A common stock and our class B common stock have substantially similar rights, preferences and privileges except with respect to certain voting and conversion rights and other protective provisions. Shares of our class B common stock are entitled to eight votes per share of class B common stock, and shares of our class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share of class A common stock. Cypress, its successors in interest or its subsidiaries may convert their shares of our class B common stock into shares of our class A common stock on a one-for-one basis at any time. Prior to a tax-free distribution by Cypress of its shares of our class B common stock to its stockholders, the class B common shares will automatically convert into shares of class A common stock if such shares are transferred to a person other than Cypress, its successors in interest or its subsidiaries. In most circumstances in the event that Cypress owns less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding, each outstanding share of class B common stock will automatically convert into one share of class A common stock. By virtue of its ownership of class B common stock, Cypress is able to elect all of the members of our board of directors. In addition, until such time as Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes, Cypress will have the ability to take stockholder action without the vote of any other stockholder and, by virtue of the voting power afforded the shares of our class B common stock, investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote during this period. As a result, Cypress will have the ability to control all matters affecting us, including: - 44 - - Table of Contents b • the composition of our board of directors and, through the board of directors, any determination with respect to the combined company’s business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing activities; • changes to the agreements providing for our separation from Cypress; • the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for us; • the payment of dividends on our class A common stock; and • the number of shares available for issuance under our stock plans. For the reasons described above, Cypress may be unwilling to support certain corporate transactions proposed by us that could dilute its ownership below 40%, including financings or acquisitions effected through the issuance of our securities. In addition, Cypress may have tax-related or other objectives that cause it to be unwilling to support these or other transactions that dilute its ownership below 50%. Cypress’s voting control may also discourage transactions involving a change of control of SunPower, including transactions in which holders of our class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. Cypress is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without approval of holders of our class A common stock and without providing for a purchase of our class A common stock. Accordingly, shares of our class A common stock may be worth less than they would be if Cypress did not maintain voting control over us. Our ability to continue to manufacture our solar cells in our current facilities with our current and planned manufacturing capacities, and therefore to maintain and increase revenue and achieve profitability, depends to a large extent upon the continued success of our relationship with Cypress. We manufacture our solar cells in a Philippines manufacturing facility which we lease from Cypress, with the option to purchase the facility. We are in the process of expanding existing facilities for solar and panel assembly. If we are unable to expand in our current facility or are required to move our manufacturing facility, we would incur significant expenses as well as lost sales. Furthermore, we may not be able to locate a facility that meets our needs on terms acceptable to us. Any of these circumstances would increase our expenses and decrease our total revenue and could prevent us from sustaining profitability. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we are unable to cost-effectively establish our own administrative and other support functions in order to operate as a stand-alone company after the expiration of our services agreements with Cypress. As a subsidiary of Cypress, we have relied on administrative and other resources of Cypress to operate our business. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into various service agreements to retain the ability for specified periods to use these Cypress resources. These agreements will expire upon the earlier or November 2009 or a change of control of our Company. We need to create our own administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace Cypress’ systems. In addition, we recently established disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as part of our becoming a separate public company in November 2005. These services may not be provided at the same level as when we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Cypress, and we may not be able to obtain the same benefits that we received prior to the separation. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and after our agreements with Cypress expire, we may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at prices and on terms as favorable as we currently have with Cypress. Any failure or significant downtime in our own administrative systems or in Cypress’ administrative systems during the transitional period could result in unexpected costs, impact our results and/or prevent us from paying our suppliers or employees and performing other administrative services on a timely basis. - 45 - - Table of Contents Our agreements with Cypress require us to indemnify Cypress for certain tax liabilities. These indemnification obligations or related considerations may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, participate in future acquisitions or pursue other business initiatives. We have entered into a tax sharing agreement with Cypress, under which we and Cypress agree to indemnify one another for certain taxes and similar obligations that the other party could incur under certain circumstances. In general, we will be responsible for taxes relating to our business. Furthermore, we may be held jointly and severally liable for taxes determined on a consolidated basis for the entire Cypress group for any particular taxable year that we are a member of the group even though Cypress is required to indemnify us for its taxes pursuant to the tax sharing agreement. As of June 2006, we ceased to be a member of the Cypress consolidated group for federal income tax purposes and most state income tax purposes. Thus, to the extent that we become entitled to utilize on our separate tax returns portions of those credit or loss carryforwards existing as of such date, we will distribute to Cypress the tax effect (estimated to be 40% for federal and state income tax purposes) of the amount of such tax loss carryforwards so utilized and the amount of any credit carryforwards so utilized. We will distribute these amounts to Cypress in cash or in our shares, at our option. Accordingly, we will be subject to the obligations payable to Cypress for any federal income tax credit or loss carryforwards utilized in our federal tax returns. As of December 30, 2007, we had $44.0 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards and approximately $73.5 million of California net operating loss carryforwards, meaning that such potential future payments to Cypress, which would be made over a period of several years, would therefore aggregate approximately $19.1 million. The majority of these net operating loss carryforwards were created by employee stock transactions. Because there is uncertainty as to the realizability of these loss carryforwards, the portion created by employee stock transactions are not reflected on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. If these losses were reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, to the extent the deductions were not matched against previous stock-based compensation charges, the loss carryforwards would be accounted for as an increase to deferred tax assets and stockholders’ equity. If Cypress distributes our class B common stock to Cypress stockholders in a transaction intended to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, Cypress intends to obtain an opinion of counsel to the effect that such distribution qualifies under Section 355 of the Code. Despite such an opinion, however, the distribution may nonetheless be taxable to Cypress under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of our voting power or economic value is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution of our stock. The tax sharing agreement includes our obligation to indemnify Cypress for any liability incurred as a result of issuances or dispositions of our stock after the distribution, other than liability attributable solely to certain dispositions of our stock by Cypress, that cause Cypress’ distribution of shares of our stock to its stockholders to be taxable to Cypress under Section 355(e) of the Code. Under current law, following a distribution by Cypress and for up to two years thereafter (or possibly longer if we are acting pursuant to a preexisting plan), our obligation to indemnify Cypress will be triggered only if we issue stock or otherwise participate in one or more transactions other than the distribution in which 50% or more of our voting power or economic value is acquired in financing or acquisition transactions that are part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. If such an indemnification obligation is triggered, the extent of our liability to Cypress will generally equal the product of (a) Cypress’ top marginal federal and state income tax rate for the year of the distribution, and (b) the difference between the fair market value of our class B common stock distributed to Cypress stockholders and Cypress’ tax basis in such stock as determined on the date of the distribution. For example, under the current tax rules, if Cypress was to make a complete distribution of its shares of our class B common stock, and our total outstanding capital stock at the time of such distribution were 84 million shares, unless we qualified for one of several safe harbor exemptions available under the Treasury Regulations, in order to avoid our indemnification obligation to Cypress, we could not, for up two years (or possibly longer if we are acting pursuant to a preexisting plan) from the date of Cypress’ distribution, issue 84 million or more shares of our class A common stock, nor could we participate in one or more transactions (excluding the distribution itself) in which 42 million or more shares of our then-existing class A common stock were to be acquired in connection with a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. In addition, these limits could be lower depending on certain actions that we or Cypress might take before or after a distribution. If we were to participate in such a transaction, assuming Cypress distributed 44.5 million shares, Cypress’ top marginal income tax rate was 40% for federal and state income tax purposes, the fair market value of our class B common stock was $70.00 per share and Cypress’ tax basis in such stock was $5.00 per share on the date of their distribution, then our liability under our indemnification obligation to Cypress would be approximately $1.2 billion. In order to preserve various options for the separation of our two companies, we and Cypress may seek to preserve Cypress’ ownership of our company at certain levels. Any such effort could limit our ability to use our equity to raise capital, pursue acquisitions, compensate employees or engage in other business initiatives. In addition, our ability to use our equity to obtain additional financing or to engage in acquisition transactions for a period of time after a tax-free distribution of our shares by Cypress will be restricted if we can only sell or issue a limited amount of our stock before triggering our obligation to indemnify Cypress for taxes it incurs under Section 355(e) of the Code. Separation of the two companies is dependent, to a large degree, on the tax efficient provisions within the tax law. Changes to these provisions, either through change of statute or judicial interpretation, may render the separation strategy less attractive. - 46 - - Table of Contents Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Cypress. Under our separation agreements with Cypress, Cypress will indemnify us for claims and losses relating to liabilities related to Cypress’ business and not related to our business. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Cypress. Our inability to resolve any disputes that arise between us and Cypress with respect to our past and ongoing relationships may result in a significant reduction of our revenue. Disputes may arise between Cypress and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Cypress; • employee retention and recruiting; • business combinations involving us; • pricing for transitional services; • sales or distributions by Cypress of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; • the nature, quality and pricing of services Cypress has agreed to provide us; and • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Cypress and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The agreements we entered into with Cypress may be amended upon agreement between the parties. While we are controlled by Cypress, we may not have the leverage to negotiate amendments to these agreements if required on terms as favorable to us as those we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party. Some of our directors and executive officers may have conflicts of interest because of their ownership of Cypress common stock, options to acquire Cypress common stock or their positions as executives or directors at Cypress. Some of our directors and executive officers own Cypress common stock and/or options to purchase Cypress common stock. In addition, some of our directors are executive officers and/or directors of Cypress. Ownership of Cypress common stock and options to purchase Cypress common stock by our directors and officers and the presence of executive officers or directors of Cypress on our board of directors could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving both us and Cypress. For example, corporate opportunities may arise that concern both of our businesses, such as the potential acquisition of a particular business or technology that is complementary to both of our businesses. In these situations, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that directors and officers who are also directors or officers of Cypress have no duty to communicate or present such corporate opportunity to us unless it is specifically applicable to the solar energy business and not applicable to or reasonably related to any business conducted by Cypress, have the right to deal with such corporate opportunity in their sole discretion and shall not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that such director or officer pursues or acquires such corporate opportunity for itself or for Cypress. In addition, we have not established at this time any procedural mechanisms to address actual or perceived conflicts of interest of these directors and officers and expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, will determine how to address any actual or perceived conflicts of interest on a case-by-case basis. If any corporate opportunity arises and if our directors and officers do not pursue it on our behalf pursuant to the provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we may not become aware of, and may potentially lose, a significant business opportunity. Because Cypress is not obligated to distribute to its stockholders or otherwise dispose of our common stock that it owns, we will continue to be subject to the risks described above relating to Cypress’ control of us if Cypress does not complete such a transaction. Cypress is not obligated to distribute to its stockholders or otherwise dispose of the shares of our class B common stock that it beneficially owns, although it might elect to do so in the future. Completion of any distribution transaction could be contingent upon, among other things, the receipt of a favorable tax ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and/or a favorable opinion of Cypress’ tax advisor as to the tax-free nature of such a transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The provisions allowing for a tax efficient distribution may be amended by legislative or judicial interpretation in the future, affecting Cypress’ willingness to distribute or dispose of our class B common stock. - 47 - - Table of Contents Unless and until such a distribution occurs or Cypress otherwise disposes of shares so that it, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding, we will continue to face the risks described above relating to Cypress’ control of us and potential conflicts of interest between Cypress and us. We may be unable to realize potential benefits that could result from such a distribution by Cypress, such as greater strategic focus, greater access to capital markets, better incentives for employees and more accountable management, although we cannot guarantee that we would realize any of these potential benefits if such a distribution did occur. In addition, speculation by the press, investment community, our customers, our competitors or others regarding whether Cypress intends to complete such a distribution or otherwise dispose of its controlling interest in us could harm our business or lead to volatility in our stock price. So long as Cypress continues to hold a controlling interest in us or is otherwise a significant stockholder, the liquidity and market price of our class A common stock may be adversely impacted. In addition, there can be no assurance that Cypress will distribute or otherwise dispose of any of its remaining shares of our class B common stock. Cypress’ ability to replace our board of directors may make it difficult for us to recruit independent directors. Cypress may at any time replace our entire board of directors. Furthermore, some actions of our board of directors require the approval of 75% of our directors except to the extent this condition is waived by Cypress. As a result, unless and until Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes, Cypress could exercise significant control over our board of directors. As such, individuals who might otherwise accept a board position at SunPower may decline to serve, and Cypress may be able to control important decisions made by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 