ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We are operating in a market environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following risk factors may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and the market price of our stock. Although we believe that we have identified and discussed below the key risk factors affecting our business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business We are currently experiencing an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon. The prices that we pay for polysilicon have increased recently and we expect these price increases to continue, which may constrain our revenue growth and decrease our gross margins and profitability. Polysilicon is an essential raw material in our production of photovoltaic, or solar, cells. Polysilicon is created by refining quartz or sand. Polysilicon is melted and grown into crystalline ingots by companies specializing in ingot growth. We procure silicon ingots from these suppliers on a contractual basis and then slice these ingots into wafers. We also purchase wafers from third-party vendors. The ingots are sliced and the wafers are processed into solar cells in our Philippines manufacturing facility. There is currently an industry-wide shortage of polysilicon, which has resulted in significant price increases. Based on our experience, we believe that the average price of polysilicon has continued to increase. Increases in polysilicon prices have in the past increased our manufacturing costs and may impact our manufacturing costs and net income in the future. As demand for solar cells has increased, many of our principal competitors have announced plans to add additional manufacturing capacity. As this manufacturing capacity becomes operational, it will increase the demand for polysilicon and further exacerbate the current shortage. Polysilicon is also used in the semiconductor industry generally and any increase in demand from that sector will compound the shortage. The production of polysilicon is capital intensive and adding additional capacity requires significant lead time. While we are aware that several new facilities for the manufacture of polysilicon are under construction, we do not believe that the supply imbalance will be remedied in the near term. We expect that polysilicon demand will continue to outstrip supply for the foreseeable future. Although we have purchase orders and contracts for what we believe will be an adequate supply of silicon ingots through 2006, our estimates regarding our supply needs may not be correct and our purchase orders may be cancelled by our suppliers. The volume and pricing associated with these purchase orders and contracts may 10 Table of Contents be changed by our suppliers based on market conditions. Our purchase orders are generally non-binding in nature. If our suppliers were to cancel our purchase orders or change the volume or pricing associated with these purchase orders, we may be unable to meet customer demand for our products, which could cause us to lose customers, market share and revenue. This would have a material negative impact on our business and operating results. If our manufacturing yields decrease significantly or our suppliers cancel or fail to deliver, we may not have made adequate provision for our polysilicon needs for the balance of the year. In addition, since some of these arrangements are with suppliers who do not themselves manufacture polysilicon but instead purchase their requirements from other vendors, it is possible that these suppliers will not be able to obtain sufficient polysilicon to satisfy their contractual obligations to us. There are a limited number of polysilicon suppliers. Many of our competitors also purchase polysilicon from our suppliers. Since we have only been purchasing polysilicon in bulk for approximately one year, these other competitors have longer and perhaps stronger relationships with our suppliers than we do. Many of them also have greater buying power than we do. Some of our competitors also have inter-locking board members with their polysilicon suppliers. Since we have committed to significantly increase our manufacturing output, an inadequate allocation of polysilicon would harm us more than it would harm our competitors. The inability to obtain sufficient polysilicon at commercially reasonable prices or at all would adversely affect our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products and could cause us to make fewer shipments, lose customers and market share and generate lower than anticipated revenue, thereby seriously harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently depend on four customers for a high percentage of our total revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers, if not immediately replaced, would significantly reduce our revenue and harm our operating results. Conergy AG, or Conergy, accounted for approximately 7% of our total combined revenue in fiscal 2004 and 45% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. Solon AG, or Solon, accounted for approximately 19% of our total combined revenue in fiscal 2004 and 16% of our total revenue in the 2005. General Electric Company, or GE, and its subcontracting partner, Plexus Corp., or Plexus, accounted for approximately 9% of our total combined revenue in fiscal 2004, and accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue in 2005. Integration Associates accounted for 31% of our total combined revenue in fiscal 2004 and 4% of our total revenue in 2005. Currently, our largest customers for our solar power products are Conergy and Solon, our largest customers for our imaging detector products are GE and Plexus and our largest customer for our infrared detector products is Integration Associates. The loss of sales to any of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. Our agreements with these customers may be cancelled if we fail to meet certain product specifications or materially breach the agreement or in the event of bankruptcy, and our customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. Most of the solar panels we sell to the European market are sold through our agreement with Conergy and we may enter into similar agreements in the future. We currently sell to a relatively small number of customers, and we expect our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers for the foreseeable future, as well as the ability of these customers to sell solar power products that incorporate our solar cells. Our customer relationships have been developed over a short period of time and are generally in their preliminary stages. We cannot be certain that these customers will generate significant revenue for us in the future or if these customer relationships will continue to develop. If our relationships with our other customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. This is exacerbated by our current manufacturing constraints for solar cells which limit our ability to sell to other customers and our contractual arrangements which require us to sell part of our future output to Conergy and Solon. In addition, our business is affected by competition in the market for the end products that each of Solon, Conergy and Plexus sell, and any decline in their business could harm our business and cause our revenue to decline. 11 Table of Contents The reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives could cause our revenue to decline. We believe that the near-term growth of the market for “on-grid” applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer’s electricity purchased from the utility network, depends in large part on the availability and size of government and economic incentives. Because a majority of our sales are in the on-grid market, the reduction or elimination of government and economic incentives may adversely affect the growth of this market or result in increased price competition, both of which could cause our revenue to decline. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in many locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Germany, Japan and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated altogether. For example, Germany has been a strong supporter of solar power products and systems and political changes in Germany could result in significant reductions or eliminations of incentives, including the reduction of feed-in tariffs over time. Some solar program incentives expire, decline over time, are limited in total funding or require renewal of authority. Net metering policies in Japan could limit the amount of solar power installed there. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives could result in decreased demand for our products and lower revenue. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet quarterly financial expectations, our stock price will likely decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters will be below market expectations. Our quarterly operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: • the availability and pricing of raw materials, particularly polysilicon; • the rate and cost at which we are able to expand our manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand, including costs and timing of adding personnel; • timing, availability and changes in government incentive programs; • unplanned additional expenses such as manufacturing failures, defects or downtime; • unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders, some of which are not fixed by contract but vary on a purchase order basis; • the loss of one or more key customers or the significant reduction or postponement of orders from these customers; • Geopolitical turmoil within any of the countries in which we operate or sell our products; • foreign currency fluctuations, particularly in the Euro or Philippine peso; • our currency hedging activities; • our ability to establish and expand customer relationships; • changes in our manufacturing costs; • changes in the relative sales mix of our solar cells, solar panels and imaging detectors; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other products, such as inverters which are sourced by a single supplier for our North American customers, necessary for our solar power products to function; • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced solar power products in a timely manner, and the amount and timing of related research and development costs; • the timing of new product or technology announcements or introductions by our competitors and other developments in the competitive environment; 12 Table of Contents • decreases in the overall average selling prices of our solar power products and imaging detectors; • increases or decreases in electric rates due to fossil fuel prices; and • shipping delays. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. This may cause us to miss analysts’ guidance or any future guidance announced by us. If we fail to meet or exceed analyst or investor expectations or our own future guidance, even by a small amount, our stock price could decline, perhaps substantially. We have incurred losses since inception and may not be able to generate sufficient revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred net losses since inception and, at December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $58.5 million. To achieve profitability, we will need to generate and sustain higher revenue while maintaining reasonable cost and expense levels. We do not know if our revenue will grow, or if so whether it will grow sufficiently to outpace our expenses, which we expect to increase as we expand our manufacturing capacity. We may not be able to achieve or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. If we do not achieve or sustain profitability or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Our dependence on a limited number of third-party suppliers for key components for our solar power products could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes, which could result in order cancellations and loss of market share. In North America, where we intend to increase our sales and marketing efforts, systems incorporating our solar cells and solar panels currently require a specialized inverter. We currently obtain the inverters we sell with our solar panels from a single supplier and expect to continue to obtain inverters from a single supplier for the foreseeable future. We believe there are only a few suppliers of inverters which are compatible with our solar cells and solar panels, and our supplier is the only one that is currently in commercial production. We have no long-term commitments regarding supply or price from our supplier, which leaves us vulnerable to the risk that our supplier may stop supplying inverters to us for any reason, including its financial viability. If we or our customers cannot obtain substitute sources of inverters on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, these supply problems may cause our revenue to decline, increase our costs, delay solar power system installations, result in loss of market share or otherwise harm our business. We manufacture all of our solar power products using components procured from a limited number of third-party suppliers. For example, we currently purchase glass from one supplier and aluminum frames and plastic back-sheet materials which we use in our products from a limited number of suppliers. If we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these or our other suppliers, we may be unable to manufacture our products or our products may be available only at a higher cost or after a long delay, which could prevent us from delivering our products to our customers within required timeframes and we may experience order cancellation and loss of market share. To the extent the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative suppliers. The failure of a supplier to supply components in a timely manner, or to supply components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements, could impair our ability to manufacture our products or decrease their costs, particularly if we are unable to obtain substitute sources of these components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. The steps we have taken to increase the efficiency of our polysilicon utilization are unproven at volume production levels and may not enable us to realize the cost reductions we anticipate. Given the polysilicon shortage, we believe the efficient use of polysilicon will be critical to our ability to reduce our manufacturing costs. We are considering several measures to increase the efficient use of polysilicon 13 Table of Contents in our manufacturing process. For example, we are developing processes to utilize thinner wafers which require less polysilicon and improved wafer-slicing technology to reduce the amount of material lost while slicing wafers, otherwise known as kerf loss. Although we have implemented some production on thinner wafers, these methods may have unforeseen negative consequences on our yields or our solar cell efficiency or reliability once they are put into large-scale commercial production or they may not enable us to realize the cost reductions we hope to achieve. We depend on a combination of our own wafer-slicing operations and those of other vendors for the wafer-slicing stage of our manufacturing, and any technical problems, breakdowns, delays or cost increases could significantly delay our manufacturing operations, decrease our output and increase our costs. We have historically depended on the wafer-slicing operations of third-party vendors to slice ingots into wafers. We recently established our own wafer-slicing operations, and in the fourth quarter of 2005, we sliced approximately 72% of our wafers. If our third-party vendors increase their prices or decrease or discontinue their shipments to us, as a result of equipment malfunctions, competing purchasers or otherwise, and we are unable to obtain substitute wafer-slicing from another vendor on acceptable terms, or increase our own wafer-slicing operations on a timely basis, our sales will decrease, our costs may increase or our business will otherwise be harmed. We obtain capital equipment used in our manufacturing process from sole suppliers and if this equipment is damaged or otherwise unavailable, our ability to deliver products on time will suffer, which in turn could result in order cancellations and loss of revenue. Some of the capital equipment used in the manufacture of our solar power products and in our wafer-slicing operations has been developed and made specifically for us, is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become damaged or stop working. In addition, we currently obtain the equipment for many of our manufacturing processes from sole suppliers and we obtain our wafer-slicing equipment from one supplier. If any of these suppliers were to experience financial difficulties or go out of business, or if there were any damage to or a breakdown of our manufacturing or wafer-slicing equipment at a time when we are manufacturing commercial quantities of our products, our business would suffer. In addition, a supplier’s failure to supply this equipment in a timely manner, with adequate quality and on terms acceptable to us, could delay our capacity expansion of our manufacturing facility and otherwise disrupt our production schedule or increase our costs of production. We have three solar cell production lines which are located in our manufacturing facility in the Philippines and if we experience interruptions in the operation of these production lines or are unable to add additional production lines, it would likely result in lower revenue and earnings than anticipated. We currently have three solar cell production lines in operation, which are located at our manufacturing facility in the Philippines. If our current production lines were to experience any problems or downtime, including those caused by intermittent electricity supply at our Philippines facility, we would be unable to meet our production targets and our business would suffer. If any piece of equipment were to break down or experience down-time, it could cause our production lines to go down. We have acquired equipment for a fourth cell production line that is rated at 33 megawatts per year and is expected to decrease per unit operating costs and we are also evaluating the timing for construction of a second production facility. This expansion has required and will continue to require significant management attention and a significant investment of capital and substantial engineering expenditures and is subject to significant risks including: • we may experience cost overruns, delays, equipment problems and other operating difficulties; • we may experience difficulties expanding our processes to larger production capacity; • our custom-built equipment may take longer and cost more to engineer than planned and may never operate as designed; and 14 Table of Contents • we are incorporating first-time equipment designs and technology improvements, which we expect to lower unit capital and operating costs, but this new technology may not be successful. If we experience any of these or similar difficulties, we may be unable to complete the addition of new production lines or expand our manufacturing facility and our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained. If this were to occur, our per-unit manufacturing costs would increase, we would be unable to increase sales as planned and our earnings would likely be materially impaired. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures, particularly in our manufacturing facility, and if adequate funds are not available or if the covenants in our credit agreements impair our ability to raise capital when needed, our ability to expand our manufacturing capacity and our business will suffer. We expect to continue to make significant capital expenditures, particularly in our manufacturing facility, and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we expand our manufacturing operations, hire additional personnel, pay more or make advance payments for raw material, especially polysilicon, increase our sales and marketing efforts and continue our research and development efforts with respect to our products and manufacturing technologies. We expect capital expenditures of approximately $100.0 million in 2006 as we continue to increase our manufacturing capacity. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and funds available under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our capital and operating expenditures over the next 12 months. However, if our financial results or operating plans change from our current assumptions, we may not have sufficient resources to support our business plan. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could require us to abide by covenants that would restrict our operations. If adequate funds are not available or not available on acceptable terms or terms consistent with any new our credit agreement we may enter into, our ability to fund our operations, develop and expand our manufacturing operations and distribution network, maintain our research and development efforts or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly impaired. Because we have fixed-price agreements with two of our largest customers and operate on a purchase order basis with our third largest customer, our financial results, including gross margin, may suffer if our manufacturing costs were to increase or purchase orders were changed or cancelled. Agreements with PowerLight and Solon provide that they will purchase our products from us on a fixed-price basis. Our agreement with Solon provides for a fixed-price basis for the first two years of the agreement, which expires in 2010. However, our manufacturing costs, including the cost of polysilicon, are variable. If our manufacturing costs increase, we would be unable to raise our prices to these customers, which in turn would negatively impact our margins and profits. We do not have a long-term agreement with Plexus but instead operate on a purchase order basis. Although we believe that cancellations to date have been insignificant, our customers may cancel or reschedule purchase orders with us on relatively short notice. Cancellations or rescheduling of customer orders could result in the delay or loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce, or delay the incurrence of, our corresponding inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from these or other customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate. Technological changes in the solar power industry could render our solar power products uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. The solar power markets are characterized by continually changing technology requiring improved features, such as more efficient and higher power output, improved aesthetics and smaller size. This requires us to 15 Table of Contents continuously develop new solar power products and enhancements for existing solar power products to keep pace with evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. Technologies developed by others may prove more advantageous than ours for the commercialization of solar power products and may render our technology obsolete. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce new solar power products could cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete, which could reduce our market share and cause our sales to decline. Our research and development expense was $9.8 million in fiscal 2003, $13.5 million combined in fiscal 2004 and $6.5 million in 2005. We will need to invest significant financial resources in research and development to maintain our market position, keep pace with technological advances in the solar power industry and to effectively compete in the future. If our future innovations fail to enable us to maintain or improve our competitive position, especially with respect to solar cell efficiency, we may lose market share. Some solar cells designed by our competitors in laboratory conditions have demonstrated higher efficiency than our solar cells which are currently available for the mass market and other companies have competing products in development. If we are unable to successfully design, develop and introduce or bring to market competitive new solar cells or other products, or enhance our existing solar cells, we may not be able to compete successfully. Competing solar power technologies may result in lower manufacturing costs or higher product performance than those expected from our solar cells. In addition, if we, or our customers, are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations would be negatively affected. Evaluating our business and future prospects may be difficult due to our limited history in producing and shipping solar cells and solar panels in commercial volumes. There is limited historical information available about our company upon which you can base your evaluation of our business and prospects. Although we began to develop and commercialize high-efficiency solar cell technology for use in solar concentrators in 1988 and began shipping product from our pilot manufacturing facility in 2003, we shipped our first commercial A-300 solar cells from our Philippines manufacturing facility in late 2004. Relative to the entire solar industry, we have shipped only a limited number of solar cells and solar panels and have recognized limited revenue. Our future success will require us to continue to scale our manufacturing capacity in our Philippines facility significantly beyond its current capacity. In addition, our business model, technology and ability to achieve satisfactory manufacturing yields at higher volumes are unproven at significant scale. As a result, you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and challenges that we will face as an early-stage company seeking to develop and manufacture new products in a rapidly growing market. Our reliance on government contracts to partially fund our research and development programs could impair our ability to develop and incorporate new technologies into our solar power product, and these contracts could negatively affect our intellectual property rights. Our government contracts enable us to develop new technologies more rapidly than we would have pursued otherwise. Funding from government contracts is recorded as an offset to our research and development expense. We recently entered into a cost-sharing research and development project with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory to fund the design of our next generation solar panels. Payments received under this contract help offset our research and development expense. This contract is expected to fund approximately $1.0 million per year of our research and development expense through May 2008. In fiscal 2005, funding from government contracts offset our research and development expense by approximately 7.0%. A reduction or discontinuance of these programs or of our participation in these programs would increase our expenses, which could affect our profitability and impair our ability to develop our solar power technologies. In addition, contracts involving government agencies may be terminated or modified at the convenience of the agency. Other risks include potential disclosure of our confidential information to third parties and the exercise of “march-in” rights by the government. March-in rights refer to the right of the United States government or government agency to require us to grant a license to the technology to a responsible applicant or, 16 Table of Contents if we refuse, the government may grant the license itself. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the technology or because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations or to give the United States industry preference. Our government-sponsored research contracts are subject to audit and require that we provide regular written technical updates on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis, and, at the conclusion of the research contract, a final report on the results of our technical research. Because these reports are generally available to the public, third parties may obtain some aspects of our sensitive confidential information. Moreover, the failure to provide these reports or to provide inaccurate or incomplete reports may provide the government with rights to any intellectual property arising from the related research. Funding from government contracts also may limit when and how we can deploy our technology developed under those contracts. Problems with product quality or product performance, including defects, in our solar cells could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our solar cells are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as ours may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our solar cells and solar panels may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or are installed because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. These defects could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver solar cells or solar panels with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our solar cells or solar panels contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our solar power products could be harmed. The possibility of future product failures could cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Furthermore, widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and reduce our market share and cause sales to decline. We have agreed to indemnify our customers and our distributors in some circumstances against liability from defects in our solar cells. A successful indemnification claim against us could require us to make significant damage payments, which would negatively affect our financial results. Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. Like other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products that are used by consumers, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of the solar power products into which our solar cells and solar panels are incorporated results in injury. Since our solar power products are electricity producing devices, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. In addition, since we only began selling our solar cells and solar panels in late 2004 and the products we are developing incorporate new technologies and use new installation methods, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting negative publicity on our business. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. We have evaluated the potential risks we face and believe that we have appropriate levels of insurance for product liability claims. We rely on our general liability insurance to cover product liability claims and have not obtained separate product liability insurance. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and if our insurance protection is inadequate to cover these claims, they could require us to make significant payments. Since we cannot test our solar panels for the duration of our standard 25-year warranty period, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense. Our current standard product warranty for our solar panels includes a 10-year warranty period for defects in material and workmanship and a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance as well as a one-year warranty on the functionality of our solar cells. We believe our warranty periods are consistent with 17 Table of Contents industry practice. Due to the long warranty period and our proprietary technology, we bear the risk of extensive warranty claims long after we have shipped product and recognized revenue. We have sold solar cells only since late 2004. Any increase in the defect rate of our products would cause us to increase the amount of warranty reserves and have a corresponding negative impact on our financial statement. Although we conduct accelerated testing of our solar cells and have several years of experience with our all back contact cell architecture, our solar panels have not and cannot be tested in an environment simulating the 25-year warranty period. As a result, we may be subject to unexpected warranty expense, which in turn would harm our financial results. Existing regulations and policies and changes to these regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and in a number of other countries, these regulations and policies are being modified and may continue to be modified. Customer purchases of, or further investment in the research and development of, alternative energy sources, including solar power technology, could be deterred by these regulations and policies, which could result in a significant reduction in the potential demand for our solar power products. For example, without a regulatory mandated exception for solar power systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. These fees could increase the cost to our customers of using our solar power products and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that our solar power products and their installation will be subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, utility interconnection and metering and related matters. It is difficult to track the requirements of individual states and design equipment to comply with the varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our solar power products may result in significant additional expenses to us and our resellers and their customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our solar power products. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than us, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. We compete with a large number of competitors in the solar power market, including BP Solar International Inc., Evergreen Solar, Inc., Mitsubishi Electric Corporation, Q-Cells AG, Sanyo Corporation and Sharp Corporation. In addition, universities, research institutions and other companies are developing alternative technologies such as thin films and concentrators, which may compete with our technology. We expect to face increased competition in the future. Further, many of our competitors are developing and are currently producing products based on new solar power technologies that may ultimately have costs similar to, or lower than, our projected costs. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Our business relies on sales of our solar power products and our competitors with more diversified product offerings may be better positioned to withstand a decline in the demand for solar power products. Some of our competitors own, partner with, have longer term or stronger relationships with polysilicon providers which could result in them being able to obtain raw materials on a more favorable basis than us. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire 18 Table of Contents significant market share, which would harm our business. If we fail to compete successfully, our business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. In addition, the solar power market in general competes with other sources of renewable energy and conventional power generation. If prices for conventional and other renewable energy resources decline, or if these resources enjoy greater policy support than solar power, the solar power market could suffer. We face competition in the market for our imaging detectors and infrared detectors, and if we fail to compete effectively, we will lose or fail to gain market share. We compete with companies such as Hamamatsu Photonics K.K. and UDT Sensors, Inc. in the market for high performance imaging detectors. In addition we compete with companies such as Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., Rohm Co., Ltd. and Agilent Technologies, Inc. in the market for infrared detectors. We may face competition in the future from other manufacturers of high performance imaging detectors, infrared detectors or alternative devices. The use of alternative devices, including low power, high data rate wireless protocols, may replace existing detectors and limit our market opportunity. Our current and future competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and greater financial, sales and marketing, technical and other resources than us or may develop technologies superior to those incorporated in our imaging detectors and infrared detectors. If we fail to compete successfully, we may be unable to expand our customer base for our imaging detectors and our business would suffer. The demand for products requiring significant initial capital expenditures such as our solar power products is affected by general economic conditions. The United States and international economies have recently experienced a period of slow economic growth. A sustained economic recovery is uncertain. In particular, terrorist acts and similar events, continued turmoil in the Middle East or war in general could contribute to a slowdown of the market demand for products that require significant initial capital expenditures, including demand for solar cells and solar power systems and new residential and commercial buildings. In addition, increases in interest rates may increase financing costs to customers, which in turn may decrease demand for our solar power products. If the economic recovery slows down as a result of the recent economic, political and social turmoil, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our solar power products, which may harm our operating results. Because of the lengthy sales cycles for our imaging detectors and the relatively fixed nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our imaging detectors. Our sales cycles from design to manufacture of our imaging detectors can typically take 12 to 18 months. Sales cycles for our imaging detectors are lengthy for a number of reasons, including: • our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our imaging detectors before they place a purchase order; • the commercial adoption of our imaging detectors is typically limited during the initial release of their products to evaluate performance and consumer demand; • failure to deliver a product in a timely manner can seriously delay or cancel introduction; and • the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating complex technology frequently are delayed or canceled. As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenue. If customer cancellations or product changes occur, this could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our operating expenses. 19 Table of Contents We depend on a third-party subcontractor in China to assemble our solar cells into solar panels and any failure to obtain sufficient assembly and test capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our solar panels and damage our customer relationships. We rely on Jaiwei, a third-party subcontractor in China, to assemble our solar cells into solar panels and perform panel testing and to manage test, packaging, warehousing and shipping of our solar panels. We do not have a long-term agreement with Jaiwei and we typically obtain services from them based on short-term purchase orders that are generally aligned with timing specified by our customers’ purchase orders and our sales forecasts. If the operations of our subcontractor was disrupted or their financial stability impaired, or if they should choose not to devote capacity to our solar panels in a timely manner, our business would suffer as we would be unable to produce finished solar panels on a timely basis. In addition, we supply inventory to Jaiwei and we bear the risk of loss, theft or damage to our inventory while it is held in their facilities. As a result of outsourcing this final step in our production, we face several significant risks, including: • lack of assembly and testing capacity and higher prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • delays resulting from an inability to move production to an alternate provider. The ability of our subcontractor to perform assembly and test is limited by their available capacity. We do not have a guaranteed level of production capacity with our subcontractor, and it is difficult to accurately forecast our capacity needs because of the shifting mix between sales of solar cells and solar panels and the timing of expanding our manufacturing capacity. Other customers of Jaiwei that are larger and better financed than we are, or that have long-term agreements in place, may induce Jaiwei to reallocate capacity to them. Any reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of solar panels that we need for our customers. In addition, interruptions to the panel manufacturing processes caused by a natural or man-made disaster could result in partial or complete disruption in supply until we are able to shift manufacturing to another facility. It may not be possible to obtain sufficient capacity or comparable production costs at another facility. Migrating our design methodology to a new third-party subcontractor could involve increased costs, resources and development time. Utilizing additional third party subcontractors could expose us to further risk of losing control over our intellectual property and the quality of our solar panels. Any reduction in the supply of solar panels could impair our revenue by significantly delaying our ability to ship products and potentially damage our relationships with existing customers. If we do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality in manufacturing our solar cells, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. The manufacture of solar cells is a highly complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield no output. We have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. This often occurs during the production of new products or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. For example, we recently commenced production in our third 25 megawatts per year production line and we have purchased equipment for a fourth line. We are also evaluating the timing for a second production facility. As we expand our manufacturing capacity and bring additional lines or facilities into production, we may experience lower yields initially as is typical with any new equipment or process. We also expect to experience lower yields initially as we migrate our manufacturing processes to thinner wafers. If we do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase, and product availability would decrease resulting in lower revenues than expected. Our ability to continue to manufacture our imaging detectors and our solar cells in our current facilities with our current and planned manufacturing capacities, and therefore to maintain and increase revenue and achieve profitability, depends to a large extent upon the success of our continued relationship with Cypress. Our imaging detectors are manufactured for us by Cypress and are processed and tested in our Sunnyvale, California facility. We do not have a long-term agreement with Cypress for the manufacturing of our imaging 20 Table of Contents detectors, but instead operate on a purchase order basis. The processes for manufacturing our imaging detectors are highly complex, specialized and proprietary. If Cypress determines to cancel its arrangement with us, our manufacturing output would be interrupted and delayed, and we would incur increased expenses in establishing relationships with alternative manufacturers at market prices. We may not be able to find alternative manufacturers on terms acceptable to us, and we may be unable to establish our own operations in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all. We manufacture our solar cells in our Philippines manufacturing facility which we lease from Cypress. If we are unable to expand in our current facility or are required to move our manufacturing facility, we would incur significant expenses as well as lost sales. Furthermore, we may not be able to locate a facility that meets our needs on terms acceptable to us. Any of these circumstances would increase our expenses and decrease our total revenue and could prevent us from achieving profitability. We have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue these efforts, which subject us to additional business risks, including logistical complexity, political instability and currency fluctuations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 70% of our sales were made to customers outside of the United States. We currently have three solar cell production lines in operation, which are located at our manufacturing facility in the Philippines. In addition, our assembly functions are conducted by a third-party subcontractor in China. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other government approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations such as our manufacturing facility in the Philippines, as well as cultural differences; • difficulties and costs in recruiting and retaining individuals skilled in international business operations; • increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • inadequate local infrastructure; • financial risks, such as longer sales and payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; and • political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions. Specifically, we face risks associated with political and economic instability and civil unrest in the Philippines. In addition, in the Asia/Pacific region generally, we face risks associated with a recurrence of SARS, tensions between countries in that region, such as political tensions between China and Taiwan, the ongoing discussions with North Korea regarding its nuclear weapons program, potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, government-fixed foreign exchange rates, relatively uncertain legal systems and developing telecommunications infrastructures. In addition, some countries in this region, such as China, have adopted laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in that country or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. In addition, although base wages are lower in the Philippines, wages for our employees in the Philippines are increasing, which could result in increased costs to employ our manufacturing engineers. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 90% of our employees were located in the Philippines. We also are faced with competition in the Philippines for employees, and we expect this competition to increase as additional solar companies enter the market and expand their operations. In particular, there may be limited availability of qualified manufacturing engineers. We have benefited from an excess of supply over demand for college graduates in the field of engineering in the Philippines. If this favorable imbalance changes due to increased competition, it could affect 21 Table of Contents the availability or cost of qualified employees, who are critical to our performance. This could increase our costs and turnover rates. Currency fluctuations in the Euro or the Philippine peso relative to the U.S. dollar could decrease our revenue or increase our expenses. In fiscal 2004, on a combined basis, and for the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 44% and 70%, respectively, of our total revenue was generated outside the United States. We presently have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in foreign currencies. A majority of our total revenue is denominated in Euros, including our fixed price agreements with Conergy and Solon, and a significant portion is denominated in U.S. dollars while a portion of our costs are incurred and paid in Euros and a smaller portion of our expenses are paid in Philippine pesos and Japanese yen. We are exposed to the risk of a decrease in the value of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, which would decrease our total revenue. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our operating margins. For example, if these foreign currencies appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it will make it more expensive in terms of U.S. dollars to purchase inventory or pay expenses with foreign currencies. In addition, currency devaluation can result in a loss to us if we hold deposits of that currency as well as make our products, which are usually purchased with U.S. dollars, relatively more expensive than products manufactured locally. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our solar cells more expensive for our international customers, thus potentially leading to a reduction in our sales and profitability. Furthermore, many of our competitors are foreign companies that could benefit from such a currency fluctuation, making it more difficult for us to compete with those companies. We currently conduct hedging activities, which involve the use of currency forward contracts. We cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our business and operating results. In the past, we have experienced an adverse impact on our total revenue and profitability as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. We may not be able to prevent others from using the SunPower name or similar mark in connection with their solar power products which could adversely affect the market recognition of our name and our revenue. “SunPower” is our registered trademark in the United States for use with solar cells and solar panels. We are seeking similar registration of the “SunPower” trademark in foreign countries but we may not be successful in some of these jurisdictions. For example, we have received initial rejection of our application to register the “SunPower” trademark in Canada and Japan based on prior registration by other people. In the foreign jurisdictions where we are unable to obtain this registration or have not tried, others may be able to sell their products using the SunPower trademark which could lead to customer confusion. In addition, if there are jurisdictions where someone else has already established trademark rights in the SunPower name, we may face trademark disputes and may have to market our products with other trademarks, which also could hurt our marketing efforts. We may encounter trademark disputes with companies using marks which are confusingly similar to SunPower which if not resolved favorably could cause our branding efforts to suffer. In addition, we may have difficulty in establishing strong brand recognition with consumers if others use similar marks for similar products. We rely primarily upon copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights, and, if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenue could suffer. We seek to protect our proprietary manufacturing processes, documentation and other written materials primarily under trade secret and copyright laws. We also typically require employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • people may not be deterred from misappropriating our technologies despite the existence of laws or contracts prohibiting it; 22 Table of Contents • policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use; and • the laws of other countries in which we market our solar cells, such as some countries in the Asia/Pacific region, may offer little or no protection for our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights could harm our ability to compete, to generate revenue and to grow our business. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection on the technology embodied in the solar cells we currently manufacture and market, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Although we rely primarily on trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect the technology in the solar cells we currently manufacture and market, our success and ability to compete in the future may also depend to a significant degree upon obtaining patent protection for our proprietary technology. As of December 31, 2005, we had 16 patent applications pending in the United States and 10 applications pending in foreign jurisdictions which cover aspects of the technology in the solar cells we currently manufacture and market. Patents that we currently own or license-in do not cover the solar cells that we presently manufacture and market. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if they result in issued patents, the patents may not have claims of the scope we seek. In addition, any issued patents may be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. The term of any issued patents would be 20 years from their filing date and if our applications are pending for a long time period, we may have a correspondingly shorter term for any patent that may issue. Our present and future patents may provide only limited protection for our technology and may not be sufficient to provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could be successful in challenging any issued patents or, alternatively, could develop similar or more advantageous technologies on their own or design around our patents. Also, patent protection in certain foreign countries may not be available or may be limited in scope and any patents obtained may not be as readily enforceable as in the United States, making it difficult for us to effectively protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. Our inability to obtain and enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business. In addition, given the costs of obtaining patent protection, we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later turn out to be important. If the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenue we derive from products protected by the patents may be decreased. The value of our patents depends in part on their duration. A shorter period of patent protection means less value of a patent. For example, the United States patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years after the date of the patent’s issuance to 20 years after the earliest effective filing date of the application for a patent, unless the application was pending on June 8, 1995, in which case the term of a patent’s protection expires either 17 years after its issuance or 20 years after its filing, whichever is later. Because the time required from the filing of patent application to issuance of a patent is often longer than three years, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. Also, we may need to refile some of our patent applications and, in these situations, the patent term will be measured from the date of the earliest priority application to which benefit is claimed in such a patent application. This would also shorten our period of patent exclusivity. A shortened period of patent exclusivity may negatively impact our revenue protected by our patents. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We are required by contract to indemnify some of our customers and our third-party intellectual property providers for certain costs and damages of patent infringement in circumstances where our solar cells are a factor 23 Table of Contents creating the customer’s or these third-party providers’ infringement liability. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers and our third-party providers. We cannot assure you that indemnification claims will not be made or that these claims will not harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights. From time to time, we, our customers or third-parties with whom we work may receive letters, including letters from various industry participants, alleging infringement of their patents. Although we are not currently aware of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. Also, because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are kept confidential for 18 months before they are published, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our solar cells. Our third-party suppliers may also become subject to infringement claims, which in turn could negatively impact our business. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property. We recently terminated a license as to which we have not paid royalties since the second quarter of 2004 because our current products do not use the licensed technology. However, the licensor could challenge our actions and litigate against us. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, our customers or our third-party intellectual property providers, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property, or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the International Trade Commission that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of our solar cells. All these judgments could materially damage our business. We may have to develop non-infringing technology, and our failure in doing so or obtaining licenses to the proprietary rights on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may file claims against other parties for infringing our intellectual property that may be very costly and may not be resolved in our favor. Although we are not aware of infringement of our intellectual property by other parties except potential trademark infringement, we cannot guarantee that such infringement does not exist now or that it will not occur in the future. To protect our intellectual property rights and to maintain our competitive advantage, we may file suits against parties who we believe infringe our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, and our enforcement effort may not be successful. In certain situations, we may have to bring such suit in foreign jurisdictions, in which case we are subject to additional risk as to the result of the proceedings and the amount of damage that we can recover. Certain foreign jurisdictions may not provide protection to intellectual property comparable to that in the United States. Our engagement in intellectual property enforcement actions may negatively impact our financial results. The current tax holidays in the Philippines will expire within the next several years. We currently benefit from income tax holiday incentives in the Philippines pursuant to our Philippine subsidiary’s registrations with the Board of Investments and Philippine Economic Zone Authority, which provide that we pay no income tax in the Philippines for four years pursuant to our Board of Investments non-pioneer status and Philippine Economic Zone Authority registrations, and six years pursuant to our Board of Investments pioneer status registration. Our current income tax holidays expire in 2010, and we intend to apply for extensions. However, these tax holidays may or may not be extended. We believe that as our Philippine tax holidays expire, (a) gross income attributable to activities covered by our Philippine Economic Zone Authority 24 Table of Contents registrations will be taxed at a 5% preferential rate, and (b) our Philippine net income attributable to all other activities will be taxed at the statutory Philippine corporate income tax rate of 32%. As of yet no tax benefit has been realized from the income tax holiday due to operating losses in the Philippines. Future transactions may limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2005, we had U.S. federal tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $36.5 million. These net operating loss carryforwards may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to use its net operating loss carry forwards to reduce its tax liability. Due in part to equity financings, we experienced “ownership changes” as defined in Section 382 of the Code. Accordingly, our use of the net operating loss carryforwards and credit carryforwards may be limited by the annual limitations described in Sections 382 and 383 of the Code. We may not be able to increase or sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. We may be unable to continue to expand our business or manage future growth. Our recent expansion has placed, and our planned expansion and any other future expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. We plan to purchase additional equipment to significantly expand our manufacturing capacity and to hire additional employees to support an increase in manufacturing, research and development and our sales and marketing efforts. To successfully manage our growth and handle the responsibilities of being a public company, we believe we must effectively: • hire, train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers for research and development activities, sales and marketing personnel, and financial and information technology personnel; • retain key management and augment our management team, particularly if we lose key members; • continue to enhance our customer resource management and manufacturing management systems; • implement and improve additional and existing administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls, including the need to integrate our financial internal control systems in our Philippines facility with those of our Sunnyvale, California headquarters; • expand and upgrade our technological capabilities; and • manage multiple relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We may encounter difficulties in effectively managing the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by rapid growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new solar cells and other products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. We had approximately 788 full-time employees as of December 31, 2005, and we anticipate that we will need to hire a significant number of highly skilled technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing, administrative and accounting personnel if we are to successfully develop and market our products and expand and operate our expanded manufacturing facility. The competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to support our anticipated growth. We may have more difficulty attracting personnel after we become a public company because of the perception that the stock option component of our compensation package may not be as valuable. The success of our business depends on the continuing contributions of our key personnel. We rely heavily on the services of our key executive officers, including Thomas H. Werner, our Chief Executive Officer, Emmanuel T. Hernandez, our Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Richard Swanson, our President 25 Table of Contents and Chief Technology Officer, and PM Pai, our Chief Operating Officer. The loss of services of any principal member of our management team, particularly Thomas H. Werner, Emmanuel T. Hernandez, Dr. Richard Swanson and PM Pai, could adversely impact our operations. In addition, our technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. However, we cannot guarantee that any employee will remain employed at the Company for any definite period of time since all of our employees, including Messrs. Werner, Hernandez, Swanson and Pai, serve at-will and may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. Our headquarters, research and development and manufacturing facilities, the facilities of our subcontractor upon which we rely to assemble and test our solar panels and facilities of our suppliers of silicon ingots, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our headquarters, including research and development operations, our manufacturing facility and the subcontractor upon which we rely to assemble and test our solar panels are located in countries that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. Our headquarters and research and development operations are located in the United States, our manufacturing facility is located in the Philippines, and our subcontractor for assembly and test of solar panels is located in China. Since we do not have redundant facilities, any earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster in these countries could materially disrupt our production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of our solar cells. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, accounting policies affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to employee stock option grants, have recently been revised. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, and other agencies have made changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, that will require us, starting in our first quarter of fiscal 2006, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We may have significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grant and other equity incentive expensing that could reduce our overall net income or increase our net loss. In addition, since we historically have used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm annually attest to our evaluation, as well as issue their own opinion on our internal control over financial reporting, which will be required for the first time in connection with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Although Cypress completed its Section 404 compliance for its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, the review of our internal controls 26 Table of Contents as part of this process was limited in scope and you should not conclude from this Cypress process that our internal controls were adequate to the extent required of an independent public company at that time. We are preparing for compliance with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. However, the continuous process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting. Furthermore, as we rapidly grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex and will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls overall remain effective. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, future non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from The Nasdaq National Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and noncompliance with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages and fines. We are required to comply with all foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding pollution control and protection of the environment. In addition, under some statutes and regulations, a government agency, or other parties, may seek recovery and response costs from operators of property where releases of hazardous substances have occurred or are ongoing, even if the operator was not responsible for such release or otherwise at fault. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile and otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research and development and manufacturing activities. Any failure by us to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to potentially significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions in our business operations. In addition, if more stringent laws and regulations are adopted in the future, the costs of compliance with these new laws and regulations could be substantial. To date such laws and regulations have not had a significant impact on our business and we believe that we have all necessary permits to conduct our business as it is presently conducted. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental laws and regulations, however, we may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend production or cease operations. Under our separation agreement with Cypress, we will indemnify Cypress from any environmental liabilities associated with our operations and facilities in Sunnyvale, California and the Philippines, whether prior to or after the separation. We may engage in acquisitions or invest in joint ventures with other companies that could adversely affect our operating results, dilute our stockholders’ equity, or cause us to incur additional debt or assume contingent liabilities. To increase our business and maintain our competitive position, we may acquire other companies or engage in joint ventures with other companies in the future. Acquisitions and joint ventures involve a number of risks that could harm our business and result in the acquired business or joint venture not performing as expected, including: • insufficient experience with technologies and markets in which the acquired business is involved, which may be necessary to successfully operate and integrate the business; • problems integrating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products with the existing business and products; • diversion of management time and attention from our core business to the acquired business or joint venture; • potential failure to retain key technical, management, sales and other personnel of the acquired business or joint venture; 27 Table of Contents • difficulties in retaining relationships with suppliers and customers of the acquired business; and • subsequent impairment of the acquired assets, including intangible assets. In addition, acquisitions or joint ventures could require investment of significant financial resources and may require us to obtain additional equity financing, which may dilute our stockholders’ equity, or to incur additional indebtedness. We maintain self-insurance for certain indemnities we have made to our officers and directors. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify our officers and directors for certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their service to us. We self-insure with respect to potential indemnifiable claims. Although we have insured our officers and directors against certain potential third-party claims for which we are legally or financially unable to indemnify them, we intend to self-insure with respect to potential third-party claims which give rise to direct liability to such third-party or an indemnification duty on our part. If we were required to pay a significant amount on account of these liabilities for which we self-insure, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Cypress Semiconductor Corporation As long as Cypress controls us, your ability to influence matters requiring stockholder approval will be limited. As of December 31, 2005 Cypress owned all 52,033,287 shares of class B common stock, representing approximately 85% of the total outstanding shares of common stock or 98% of the voting power of outstanding capital stock. The holders of our class A common stock and our class B common stock have substantially similar rights, preferences, and privileges except with respect to voting and conversion rights and other protective provisions as set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Holders of our class B common stock are entitled to eight votes per share of class B common stock, and the holders of our class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share of class A common stock. If Cypress transfers shares of our class B common stock to any party other than a successor in interest or a subsidiary of Cypress prior to a tax-free distribution to its stockholders, those shares would automatically convert into class A common stock. Other than through such transfers or voluntary conversions by Cypress of class B common stock to class A common stock, only at such time, if at all, as Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress has not effected a tax-free distribution of our class B common stock to its stockholders prior to such time will all shares of our class B common stock automatically convert into shares of our class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. For so long as Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries hold shares of our class B common stock, Cypress will be able to elect all of the members of our board of directors. In addition, until such time as Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes, Cypress will have the ability to take stockholder action without the vote of any other stockholder, and investors will not be able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote during this period. As a result, Cypress will have the ability to control all matters affecting us, including: • the composition of our board of directors and, through our board of directors, any determination with respect to our business plans and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; • any determinations with respect to mergers and other business combinations; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our financing activities; • changes to the agreements providing for our separation from Cypress; • the allocation of business opportunities that may be suitable for us and Cypress; 28 Table of Contents • the payment of dividends on our common stock; and • the number of shares available for issuance under our stock plans. Cypress’ voting control may discourage transactions involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which holders of our class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. Cypress is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in us to a third party and may do so without approval of class A stockholders and without providing for a purchase of class A common stock. Accordingly, shares of class A common stock may be worth less than they would be if Cypress did not maintain voting control over us. Our historical financial information as a business segment of Cypress may not be representative of our results as an independent public company. The historical financial information we have included in this Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity during the historical periods presented. The historical costs and expenses reflected in our consolidated financial statements include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by Cypress, including centralized legal, tax, treasury, information technology, employee benefits and other Cypress corporate services and infrastructure costs. These expense allocations were based on what we and Cypress considered to be reasonable reflections of the utilization of services provided or the benefit received by us. The historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of what our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or costs and expenses will be in the future. We have not made adjustments to reflect many significant changes that will occur in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our separation from Cypress, including changes in our employee base, changes in our tax structure, potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with being a publicly traded, stand-alone company. For additional information, see “Selected Consolidated Financial Data,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we are unable to cost-effectively establish our own administrative and other support functions in order to operate as a stand-alone company after the expiration of our services agreements with Cypress. As a subsidiary of Cypress, we have relied on administrative and other resources of Cypress to operate our business. In connection with our separation from Cypress, we have entered into various service agreements to retain the ability for specified periods to use these Cypress resources. Thereafter, we will need to create our own administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace Cypress’ systems. In addition, we recently established disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as part of our becoming a separate public company in November 2005. These services may not be provided at the same level as when we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Cypress, and we may not be able to obtain the same benefits that we received prior to the separation. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and after our agreements with Cypress expire, we may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at prices and on terms as favorable as we currently have with Cypress. Any failure or significant downtime in our own administrative systems or in Cypress’ administrative systems during the transitional period could result in unexpected costs, impact our results and/or prevent us from paying our suppliers or employees and performing other administrative services on a timely basis. For a description of these services, please see the section entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. We may experience increased costs resulting from a decrease in our purchasing power and we may have difficulty obtaining new customers due to our relatively small size after our separation from Cypress. Historically, we were able to take advantage of Cypress’ size and purchasing power in procuring goods, technology and services, including insurance, employee benefit support and audit services. We are a smaller 29 Table of Contents company than Cypress, and we cannot assure you that we will have access to financial and other resources comparable to those available to us prior to the offering. As an independent company, we may be unable to obtain goods, technology and services at prices or on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to our separation from Cypress, which could increase our costs and reduce our profitability. In addition, as a smaller, separate, stand-alone company, we may encounter more customer concerns about our viability as a separate entity, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to maintain our current relationships with existing customers, and we may have difficulty attracting new customers. Our agreements with Cypress require us to indemnify Cypress for certain tax liabilities. These indemnification obligations may limit our ability to obtain additional financing or participate in future acquisitions for up to two years. We have entered into a tax sharing agreement with Cypress, under which we and Cypress agree to indemnify one another for certain taxes and similar obligations that the other party could incur under certain circumstances. In general, we will be responsible for taxes relating to our business. Furthermore, we may be held jointly and severally liable for taxes determined on a consolidated basis even though Cypress is required to indemnify us for its taxes pursuant to the tax sharing agreement. After the date we cease to be a member of Cypress’ consolidated, combined or unitary group for federal or state income tax purposes, as and to the extent that we become entitled to utilize on our separate tax returns portions of those credit or loss carryforwards existing as of such date, we will distribute to Cypress the tax effect (estimated to be 40%) of the amount of such tax loss carryforwards so utilized and the amount of any credit carryforwards so utilized. We will distribute these amounts to Cypress in cash or in our shares, at our option. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $36.5 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards and approximately $4.8 million of California net operating loss carryforwards, meaning that such potential future payments to Cypress, which would be made over a period of several years, would therefore aggregate between $15.0 million and $16.0 million. For a more complete description of the tax sharing agreement, please see the section entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions—Relationship with Cypress Semiconductor Corporation—Tax Sharing Agreement” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. If Cypress distributes our class B common stock to Cypress stockholders in a transaction intended to qualify as a tax-free distribution under Section 355 of the Code, Cypress intends to obtain an opinion of counsel and/or a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such distribution qualifies under Section 355 of the Code. Despite such an opinion or ruling, however, the distribution may nonetheless be taxable to Cypress under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more of our voting power or economic value is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution of our stock. The tax sharing agreement includes our obligation to indemnify Cypress for any liability incurred as a result of issuances or dispositions of our stock after the distribution, other than liability attributable to certain dispositions of our stock by Cypress, that cause Cypress’ distribution of shares of our stock to its stockholders to be taxable to Cypress under Section 355(e) of the Code. Under current law, following a distribution by Cypress and up to two years thereafter, our obligation to indemnify Cypress will be triggered only if we issue stock or participate in a transaction in which 50% or more of our voting power or economic value is acquired in a financing or acquisition transaction that is part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. If such an indemnification obligation is triggered, the extent of our liability to Cypress will generally equal the product of (a) Cypress’ top marginal federal and state income tax rate for the year of the distribution, and (b) the difference between the fair market value of our class B common stock distributed to Cypress stockholders and Cypress’ tax basis in such stock as determined on the date of the distribution. Our ability to use our equity to obtain additional financing or to engage in acquisition transactions for a period of time after a distribution will be restricted if we can only sell or issue a limited amount of our stock before triggering our obligation to indemnify Cypress for taxes it incurs under Section 355(e) of the Code. For example, under the current tax rules, if Cypress were to make a complete distribution of its class B common stock and our total outstanding capital stock at the time of such distribution was 67,000,000 shares, 30 Table of Contents unless we qualified for one of several safe harbor exemptions available under the Treasury Regulations, in order to avoid our indemnification obligation to Cypress, we could not, for up two years from Cypress’ distribution, issue 67,000,000 or more shares of class A common stock, nor could we participate in a transaction in which 33,500,000 or more shares of our then existing class A common stock is to be acquired in connection with a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. If we were to participate in such a transaction, assuming Cypress held 52,000,000 shares at the time of their distribution, Cypress’ top marginal income tax rate is 40%, the fair market value of our class B common stock is $35.00 per share and Cypress’ tax basis in such stock is $10.00 per share on the date of their distribution, then our liability under our indemnification obligation to Cypress would be approximately $520,000,000. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for liabilities of Cypress. Third parties may seek to hold us responsible for Cypress’ liabilities. Under our separation agreements with Cypress, Cypress will indemnify us for claims and losses relating to liabilities related to Cypress’ business and not related to our business. However, if those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover the full amount of our losses from Cypress. Our inability to resolve any disputes that arise between us and Cypress with respect to our past and ongoing relationships may result in a significant reduction of our revenue. Disputes may arise between Cypress and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including: • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Cypress; • the cost of wafers for our imaging detectors; • employee retention and recruiting; • business combinations involving us; • pricing for transitional services; • sales or distributions by Cypress of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; • the nature, quality and pricing of services Cypress has agreed to provide us; and • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Cypress and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. The agreements we entered into with Cypress may be amended upon agreement between the parties. While we are controlled by Cypress, we may not have the leverage to negotiate amendments to these agreements if required on terms as favorable to us as those we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party. Some of our directors and executive officers may have conflicts of interest because of their ownership of Cypress common stock, options to acquire Cypress common stock and positions with Cypress. Some of our directors and executive officers own Cypress common stock and options to purchase Cypress common stock. For information regarding the ownership of Cypress common stock and options to purchase Cypress common stock, see the section entitled “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in our Proxy Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, some of our directors are executive officers and/or directors of Cypress. Ownership of Cypress common stock and options to purchase Cypress common stock by our directors and officers and the presence of executive officers or directors of Cypress on our board of directors could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters 31 Table of Contents involving both us and Cypress. For example, corporate opportunities may arise that concern both of our businesses, such as the potential acquisition of a particular business or technology that is complementary to both of our businesses. In these situations, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that directors and officers who are also directors or officers of Cypress have no duty to communicate or present such corporate opportunity to us unless it is specifically and primarily applicable to converting solar energy into electrical energy and using the resulting electrical energy other than in applications for consumers where photodiode technology is combined with micro-controllers and other integrated circuits made by Cypress, have the right to deal with such corporate opportunity in their sole discretion and shall not be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that such director or officer pursues or acquires such corporate opportunity for itself or for Cypress. In addition, we have not established at this time any procedural mechanisms to address actual or perceived conflicts of interest of these directors and officers and expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, will determine how to address any actual or perceived conflicts of interest on a case-by-case basis. If any corporate opportunity arises and if our directors and officers do not pursue it on our behalf pursuant to the provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we may not become aware of, and may potentially lose, a significant business opportunity. Because Cypress is not obligated to distribute our common stock that it owns to its stockholders, we will continue to be subject to the risks described above relating to Cypress’ control of us if Cypress does not complete such a distribution. Cypress has advised us that it does not have any current plans to distribute to its stockholders the shares of our class B common stock that it beneficially owns. Completion of any such distribution in the future would be contingent upon, among other things, the receipt of a favorable tax ruling from the Internal Revenue Service and/ or a favorable opinion of Cypress’ tax advisor as to the tax-free nature of the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, Cypress is not obligated to undertake the distribution, and the distribution may not occur for the foreseeable future or at all. Unless and until such a distribution occurs or Cypress otherwise disposes of shares so that it, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding, we will continue to face the risks described above relating to Cypress’ control of us and potential conflicts of interest between Cypress and us. We may be unable to realize potential benefits that could result from such a distribution by Cypress, such as greater strategic focus, greater access to capital markets, better incentives for employees and more accountable management, although we cannot guarantee that we would realize any of these potential benefits if such a distribution did occur. In addition, speculation by the press, investment community, our customers, our competitors or others regarding whether Cypress intends to complete such a distribution or otherwise dispose of its controlling interest in us could harm our business. So long as Cypress continues to hold a controlling interest in us or is otherwise a significant stockholder, the liquidity and market price of our class A common stock may be adversely impacted. Through potential control of our board of directors, Cypress may cause our board to act in Cypress’ best interests which may diverge from the best interests of other stockholders and make it difficult for us to recruit quality independent directors. Cypress may at any time replace our entire board of directors. Furthermore, some actions of our board of directors require the approval of 75% of our directors except to the extent this condition is waived by Cypress. As a result, unless and until Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes, Cypress could effectively control and direct our board of directors, which means that to the extent the interests of Cypress and we diverge, Cypress can cause us to act in Cypress’ best interest to the detriment of the value of our class A common stock. In certain circumstances (e.g. if outside directors disagree with Cypress’s position on issues and subsequently resign), talented individuals who might otherwise accept a board position at SunPower may decline to serve. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile, and a liquid trading market for our class A common stock may not develop or be sustained. Our class A common stock has a limited trading history in a public market. We cannot predict how liquid the market for our common stock might become. The trading price of our class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, the stock market in general and the Nasdaq National Market and technology companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our class A common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our class A common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business or our market. If one or more of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Substantial future sales of our class A common stock or other securities in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of our class A common stock in the public market or sales of any other securities in our company, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of our class A common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2005 we had 9,059,197 shares of class A common stock outstanding and Cypress owns 52,033,287 outstanding shares of our class B common stock, representing approximately 85% of the outstanding shares of our common stock which Cypress may convert into class A common stock at any time. Cypress has no contractual obligation to retain its shares of our common stock, except that it has agreed not to sell or distribute any of its shares of our common stock without the consent of Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Lehman Brothers Inc. until 270 days after November 16, 2005 (the date of our final prospectus for our IPO). Subject to applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws, Cypress may sell or distribute to its stockholders any or all of the shares of our common stock that it owns, which may or may not include the sale of a controlling interest in us, either (1) after the expiration of this 270-day period or (2) before the expiration of this 270-day period with the consent of Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Lehman Brothers Inc. Our directors and officers and all of our existing stockholders entered into 180-day lock-up (following November 16, 2005 (the date of our final prospectus for our IPO) agreements with us or with Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Lehman Brothers Inc., subject to certain exceptions, except that Cypress has agreed to a 270-day lock-up period. However, on March 9, 2006 Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Lehman Brothers Inc. agreed to the release of certain employee stockholders (other than the executive officers of the Company and Cypress) from the 180-day lock-up stock trading restriction with respect to a percentage of their shares. This release resulted in approximately 260,000 class A common shares becoming freely tradable on March 9, 2006. Our executive officers and Cypress remain subject to their original lock-up agreements. All shares sold in our IPO are freely transferable without restriction or additional registration under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, and subject to the lock-up arrangements, volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If Cypress elects to convert its shares of class B common stock into 33 Table of Contents class A common stock, an additional 52,033,287 shares of class A common stock will be available for sale 270 days following November 16, 2005 (the date of our final prospectus for our IPO) subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and 701 of the Securities Act. Any or all of these shares may be released prior to expiration of the lock-up period at the discretion of both Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Lehman Brothers Inc. without prior notice. To the extent shares are released before the expiration of the lock-up period and these shares are sold into the market, the market price of our common stock could decline. The remaining shares of our common stock will become available for sale at various times thereafter upon the expiration of one-year holding periods. In addition, Cypress has the right to cause us to register the sale of its shares of our common stock under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares, other than shares purchased by our affiliates, becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. If Cypress distributes to its stockholders shares of our common stock that it owns, which it has agreed not to do for at least 270 days after November 16, 2005 (the date of our final prospectus for our IPO) substantially all of these shares would be eligible for immediate resale in the public market. We are unable to predict whether significant amounts of our common stock would be sold in the open market in anticipation of, or after, any such distribution. We also are unable to predict whether a sufficient number of buyers for shares of our class A common stock would be in the market at that time. The difference in the voting rights of our class A and our class B common stock may harm the value and liquidity of our class A common stock. The rights of the holders of class A and class B common stock are substantially similar, except with respect to voting, conversion and other protective provisions. The holders of class B common stock are entitled to eight votes per share and the holders of our class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share. The difference in the voting rights of our class A and class B common stock both before and after any distribution of our class B common stock by Cypress to its stockholders could harm the value of the class A common stock to the extent that any investor or potential future purchaser of our common stock ascribes value to the right of the holders of our class B common stock to eight votes per share. The existence of two classes of common stock could result in less liquidity for either class of common stock than if there were only one class of our common stock. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,042,490 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; and 34 Table of Contents • in the event that Cypress, its successors in interest and its subsidiaries no longer collectively own shares of our common stock equal to at least 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes: • our board of directors will be divided into three classes of directors, with the classes to be as nearly equal in number as possible; • no action can be taken by stockholders except at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders called in accordance with our bylaws, and stockholders may not act by written consent; • stockholders may not call special meetings of the stockholders; and • our board of directors will be able to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval. Until such time as Cypress, its successor in interest and its subsidiaries collectively own less than 40% of the shares of all classes of our common stock then outstanding and Cypress is no longer consolidating us for accounting purposes, the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the then-authorized number of members of our board of directors will be required to: (a) adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or certificate of incorporation; (b) appoint or remove our chief executive officer; (c) designate, appoint or allow for the nomination or recommendation for election by our stockholders of an individual to our board of directors; (d) change the size of our board of directors to be other than five members; (e) form a committee of our board of directors or establish or change a charter, committee responsibilities or committee membership of any committee of our board of directors; (f) adopt any stockholder rights plan, “poison pill” or other similar arrangement; or (g) approve any transactions that would involve a merger, consolidation, restructuring, sale of substantially all of our assets or any of our subsidiaries or otherwise result in any person or entity obtaining control of us or any of our subsidiaries. Cypress may at any time in its sole discretion waive this requirement to obtain such a supermajority vote of our board of directors. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than they would without these provisions. We incur substantial compliance costs as a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs in 2006 and beyond, and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these new rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 