ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should give careful consideration to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose some or all of your investment. We rely on a small number of customers who may not consistently purchase our products in the future and if we lose any one of these customers, our revenues may decline. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014, our three largest customers represented approximately 21%, 21% and 14%, respectively, of our total revenues. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, our two largest customers represented approximately 54% and 13%, respectively, of our total revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during those periods. At June 30, 2014, receivables from our three largest customers were 30%, 17% and 11%, respectively, of the total accounts receivable. In the future, a small number of customers may continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in any given period. These customers may not consistently purchase our products at a particular rate over any subsequent period. A loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our revenues. We could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts receivable, which would adversely affect our financial results. At June 30, 2014, receivables from our three largest customers were 30%, 17% and 11%, respectively, of the total accounts receivable. While we believe we have a varied customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, we may experience changes in our customer base, including reductions in purchasing commitments, which could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues and liquidity. We have not purchased insurance on our accounts receivable balances. We rely heavily upon the talents of our Chief Executive Officer, the loss of whom could damage our business. Our performance depends to a large extent on a small number of key scientific, technical, managerial and marketing personnel. In particular, we believe our success is highly dependent upon the services and reputation of our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Joseph N. Forkey. The loss of Dr. Forkey’s services could damage our business. Dr. Forkey provides highly valuable contributions to our capabilities in optical instrument development, in management of new technology and in potentially significant longer-term Company initiatives related to biophysics and biomedical instrumentation. We must continue to be able to attract employees with the scientific and technical skills that our business requires and if we are unable to attract and retain such individuals, our business could be severely damaged. Our ability to attract employees with a high degree of scientific and technical talent is crucial to the success of our business. There is intense competition for the services of such persons and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain individuals possessing the necessary qualifications. If we cannot attract such individuals, we may not be able to produce our products and our business could be damaged. We are subject to a high degree of regulatory oversight and, if we do not continue to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, our revenues may decline. The FDA has granted us clearance to market the medical products we currently sell in the United States. However, prior FDA approval may be required before we can market additional medical products that we may develop in the future. We may also seek to sell current or future medical products in a manner that requires us to obtain FDA permission to market such products. We may also require the regulatory approval or license of other federal, state or local agencies or comparable agencies in other countries. We may lose the FDA’s permission to market our current products or may not obtain the necessary regulatory permission, approvals or licenses for the marketing of any of our future products. Also, we cannot predict the impact on our business of FDA regulations or determinations arising from future legislation or administrative action. If we lose the FDA’s permission to market our current products or we do not obtain regulatory permission to market our future products, our revenues may decline and our business may be harmed. 5 We face risks inherent in product development and production under fixed-price purchase orders and these purchase orders may not be profitable over time. A portion of our business has been devoted to research, development and production under fixed-price purchase orders. For our purposes, a fixed-price purchase order is any purchase order under which we will provide products or services for a fixed-price over an extended period of time, usually six months or longer. Fixed-price purchase orders represented approximately 25% to 50% of our total revenues during the last several years. We expect that revenues from fixed-price purchase orders will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in future fiscal years. Because they involve performance over time, we cannot predict with certainty the expenses involved in meeting our obligations under fixed-price purchase orders. Therefore, we can never be sure at the time we enter into any single fixed-price purchase order that such purchase order will be profitable for us. Third parties may infringe on our intellectual property and, as a result, we could incur significant expense in protecting our patents or not have sufficient resources to protect them. We utilize a number of licensed patents that are important to our business. In July 2011, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Intuitive Surgical Operations, Inc., in which we received $2.5 million in connection with the sale of certain intellectual property. Pursuant to the agreement, we agreed to assign to Intuitive Surgical all of the issued and non-expired patents and pending patent applications we held at the time of the agreement and, in return, Intuitive Surgical agreed to grant to us a royalty-free, worldwide license to these patents in fields outside of medical robotics. Although we are not currently aware of any past or present infringements of our patents, we plan, jointly with Intuitive Surgical, to protect these patents from infringement and obtain additional patents whenever feasible. To this end, we have obtained confidentiality agreements from our employees and consultants and others who have access to the design of our products and other proprietary information. Protecting and obtaining patents, however, is both time consuming and expensive. We therefore may not have the resources necessary to assert all potential patent infringement claims or pursue all patents that might be available to us. If our competitors or other third parties infringe on our patents, our business may be harmed. Third parties may claim that we have infringed on their patents and, as a result, we could be prohibited from using all or part of any technology used in our products. Should third parties claim a proprietary right to all or part of any technology that we use in our products, such a claim, regardless of its merit, could involve us in costly litigation. If successful, such a claim could also result in us being unable to freely use the technology that was the subject of the claim, or sell products embodying such technology. If we engage in litigation, our expenses may increase and our business may be harmed. If we are prohibited from using a particular technology in our products, our revenues may decline and our business may be harmed. We depend on the availability of certain key supplies and services that are available from only a few sources and if we experience difficulty with a supplier, we may have difficulty finding alternative sources of these supplies or services. We require certain key supplies to develop and manufacture our products, particularly our precision grade optical glass, which is available from only a few sources, each of which is located outside of the United States. Additionally, we rely on outside vendors to grind and polish certain of our lenses and other optical components, such as prisms and windows. Based upon our ordering experience to date, we believe the materials and services required for the production of our products are currently available in sufficient quantities to meet our needs. Our requirements are small relative to the total supply, and we are not currently encountering problems with availability. However, this does not mean that we will continue to have timely access to adequate supplies of essential materials and services in the future or that supplies of these materials and services will be available on satisfactory terms when the need arises. Our business could be severely damaged if we become unable to procure these essential materials and services in adequate quantities and at acceptable prices. From time to time, subcontractors may produce some of our products for us, and our business is subject to the risk that these subcontractors fail to make timely delivery. Our products and services are also used as components of the products and services of other manufacturers. We are therefore subject to the risk that manufacturers that integrate our products or services into their own products or services are unable to acquire essential supplies and services from third parties in a timely fashion. If this occurs, we may not be able to deliver our products on a timely basis and our revenues may decline. 6 Our customers may claim that the products we sold them were defective and if our insurance is not sufficient to cover such a claim, we would be liable for the excess. Like any manufacturer, we are and always have been exposed to liability claims resulting from the use of our products. We maintain product liability insurance to cover us in the event of liability claims, and as of September 23, 2014, no such claims have been asserted or threatened against us. However, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all possible future product liabilities. We would be liable if our business operations harmed the environment and a failure to maintain compliance with environmental laws could severely damage our business. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. From time to time, we use hazardous materials in our operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, our business could be severely damaged by any failure to maintain such compliance. Our quarterly financial results vary quarter to quarter and depend on many factors. As a result, we cannot predict with a high degree of certainty our operating results in any particular fiscal quarter. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly depending upon factors such as: — the timing of completion of significant customer orders; — the timing and amount of our research and development expenditures; — the costs of initial product production in connection with new products; — the timing of new product introductions—both by us and by our competitors; — the timing and level of market acceptance of new products or enhanced versions of our existing products; — our ability to retain existing customers and customers’ continued demand for our products and services; — our customers’ inventory levels, and levels of demand for our customers’ products and services; and — competitive pricing pressures. We may not be able to grow or sustain revenues or achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis and levels of revenue and/or profitability may vary from one such period to another. Some of our competitors are large, well-financed companies who have research and marketing capabilities that are superior to ours. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have greater financial resources and manufacturing capabilities, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and larger technical staffs than we have. Other companies, some with greater experience in the optics, semiconductor or medical products industries, are seeking to produce products and services that compete with our products and services. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Trading in our common stock is limited and the price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility. Our common stock is quoted on OTCQB, the OTC market tier for companies that report to the SEC, under the symbol PEYE. We expect our common stock to continue to be quoted on the OTCQB for the foreseeable future. Broker-dealers may decline to trade in OTCQB stocks given the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile and the risk to investors is greater. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of their shares. This could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, the price of our common stock may be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: — our ability to successfully conceive and to develop new products and services to enhance the performance characteristics and methods of manufacture of existing products; — our ability to retain existing customers and customers’ continued demand for our products and services; 7 — the timing of our research and development expenditures and of new product introductions; — the timing and level of acceptance of new products or enhanced versions of our existing products; and — price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance. “Penny stock” rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult which may make our stock less liquid and make it harder for investors to buy and sell our securities. Trading in our securities is subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules and it is anticipated that trading in our securities will continue to be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements may discourage broker-dealers from recommending transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and consequently adversely affect the market price for our securities. We are contractually obligated to issue shares in the future, diluting your interest in us. As of June 30, 2014, there were 409,087 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options outstanding, at a weighted average exercise price of $4.49 per share. As of June 30, 2014, a total of 117,200 shares and 27,198 shares, respectively, of our common stock, are reserved for issuance under our 2011 and 2006 Equity Incentive Plans.. As of June 30, 2014, there are also warrants outstanding for the issuance of an aggregate of an additional 2,983,752 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $1.25 per share. Moreover, we expect to issue additional shares and options to purchase shares of our common stock to compensate employees, consultants and directors, and we may issue additional shares to raise capital. Any such issuances will have the effect of further diluting the interest of the holders of our securities. 