ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before making an investment decision, you should give careful consideration to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose some or all of your investment. Our independent auditors have issued a going concern opinion and, if we do not generate enough cash from operations to sustain our business, we may have to liquidate assets or curtail our operations. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. During the year ended June 30, 2010, we incurred net losses of $660,882 and during the year ended June 30, 2009, we incurred net losses of $992,135. Our auditors have issued a going concern qualification in their report related to our financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2010. This report is based on our history of operating losses, negative cash flows from operations and our cash position as of June 30, 2010. Conditions exist which raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our obligations on a timely basis, to obtain additional financing as may be required, and ultimately to attain profitable operations. However, we may not be able to obtain additional financing or achieve profitable operations or sufficient cash flows in the future. Our existing and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition. Effective June 25, 2008, we completed a financing in which we issued 10% Senior Secured Convertible Notes and Warrants. As of June 30, 2010, we had outstanding notes payable of $600,000, with accrued interest as of June 30, 2010 of $120,833. Pursuant to agreements executed with holders of our 10% Senior Secured Convertible Notes, the holders of the Notes agreed to extend the stated maturity date of the Notes to October 15, 2010. While we believe the holders of the Notes will continue to work with us to reach a positive outcome on the repayment of the Notes, if we are not able to do so we may have to curtail our operations or liquidate our assets. 8 Table of Contents We may need to incur additional debt in the future to fund all or part of our capital requirements. Our outstanding debt and future debt obligations could impair our liquidity and could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our other obligations; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow we may generate to payments on our debt obligations, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate requirements; •impede us from obtaining additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; and •make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business prospects and limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our industry. It is highly unlikely that we will be able to generate enough cash from our operations to pay our outstanding debt on the specified due date. If we were to fail in the future to make any required payment under agreements governing indebtedness, or equity issues, or fail to comply with the financial and operating covenants contained in those agreements, we would be in default in regards to that financing transaction. A debt default could significantly diminish the market value and marketability of our common stock. Our lenders would have the ability to require that we immediately pay all outstanding indebtedness, and we might not have sufficient assets to satisfy their demands. In this event, we may be forced to seek protection under bankruptcy laws, which could harm our future operations and overall financial condition. The current worldwide economic downturn could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If the economic downturn continues, our customers may delay, reduce or cancel their purchases of our products, particularly if they or their customers have difficulty obtaining credit, which could reduce our revenues. The economic downturn could increase competition which could have the effect of reducing our prices. We could incur losses if a customer's business fails and is unable to pay us, or pay us on a timely basis. Likewise, if our suppliers have difficulty in obtaining credit or in operating their businesses, they may not be able to provide us with the materials we use to manufacture our products. These actions could result in reduced revenues and higher operating costs, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on a small number of customers who may not consistently purchase our products in the future and if we lose any one of these customers, our revenues may decline. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, our four largest customers represented approximately 33%, 19%, 17% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, our four largest customers represented approximately 22%, 20%, 23% and 11%, respectively, of our total revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues during those periods. At June 30, 2010, receivables from our three largest customers were 39%, 23% and 15%, respectively, of the total accounts receivable. In the future, a small number of customers may continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in any given period. These customers may not consistently purchase our products at a particular rate over any subsequent period. A loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our revenues. 9 Table of Contents Negative economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers' accounts receivable which would adversely affect our financial results. At June 30, 2010, receivables from our three largest customers were 39%, 23% and 15%, respectively, of the total accounts receivable. While we believe we have a varied customer base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if current economic conditions fail to improve we may experience change in our customer base, including reductions in their purchasing commitments to us, which could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues and liquidity. We have not purchased insurance on our accounts receivable balances. We rely heavily upon the talents of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Scientific Officer, the loss of whom could severely damage our business. Our performance depends to a large extent on a small number of key scientific, technical, managerial and marketing personnel. In particular, we believe our success is highly dependent upon the services and reputation of our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Richard E. Forkey. The loss of Mr. Forkey's services could severely damage our business. Additionally, Dr. Joseph N. Forkey, our Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, provides highly valuable contributions to our capabilities in optical instrument development, in management of new technology and in potentially significant longer-term initiatives in biophysics and biomedical instrumentation. The loss of Dr. Forkey's management and scientific contributions could severely damage our business. We must continue to be able to attract employees with the scientific and technical skills that our business requires and if we are unable to attract and retain such individuals, our business could be severely damaged. Our ability to attract employees with a high degree of scientific and technical talent is crucial to the success of our business. There is intense competition for the services of such persons, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to attract and retain individuals possessing the necessary qualifications. If we cannot attract such individuals, we may not be able to produce our products and our business could be damaged. We are subject to a high degree of regulatory oversight and, if we do not continue to receive the necessary regulatory approvals, our revenues may decline. The FDA has allowed us to market the medical products we currently sell in the United States. However, prior FDA approval may be required before we can market additional medical products that we may develop in the future. We may also seek to sell current or future medical products in a manner that requires us to obtain FDA permission to market such products. We may also require the regulatory approval or license of other federal, state or local agencies or comparable agencies in other countries. We may not continue to receive the FDA's permission to market our current products or may not obtain the necessary regulatory permission, approvals or licenses for the marketing of any of our future products. Also, we cannot predict the impact on our business of FDA regulations or determinations arising from future legislation or administrative action. If we lose the FDA's permission to market our current products or we do not obtain regulatory permission to market our future products, our revenues may decline and our business may be harmed. 10 Table of Contents We face risks inherent in product development and production under fixed price purchase orders and these purchase orders may not be profitable over time. A portion of our business has been devoted to research, development and production under fixed price purchase orders. For our purposes, a fixed price purchase order is any purchase order under which we will provide products or services for a fixed price over an extended period of time, usually six months or longer. Fixed price purchase orders represented approximately 25% to 50% of our total revenues during the last several years. We expect that revenues from fixed price purchase orders will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues in future fiscal years. Because they involve performance over time, we cannot predict with certainty the expenses involved in meeting our obligations under fixed price purchase orders. Therefore, we can never be sure at the time we enter into any single fixed price purchase order that such purchase order will be profitable for us. Third parties may infringe on our patents and as a result, we could incur significant expense in protecting our patents or not have sufficient resources to protect them. We hold a number of patents that are important to our business. Although we are not currently aware of any past or present infringements of our patents, we plan to protect these patents from infringement and obtain additional patents whenever feasible. To this end, we have obtained confidentiality agreements from our employees and consultants and others who have access to the design of our products and other proprietary information. Protecting and obtaining patents, however, is both time consuming and expensive. We therefore may not have the resources necessary to assert all potential patent infringement claims or pursue all patents that might be available to us. If our competitors or other third parties infringe on our patents, our business may be harmed. Third parties may claim that we have infringed on their patents and as a result, we could be prohibited from using all or part of any technology used in our products. Should third parties claim a proprietary right to all or part of any technology that we use in our products, such a claim, regardless of its merit, could involve us in costly litigation. If successful, such a claim could also result in us being unable to freely use the technology that was the subject of the claim, or sell products embodying such technology. If we engage in litigation, our expenses may increase and our business may be harmed. If we are prohibited from using a particular technology in our products, our revenues may decline and our business may be harmed. We depend on the availability of certain key supplies and services that are available from only a few sources and if we experience difficulty with a supplier, we may have difficulty finding alternative sources of these supplies or services. We require certain key supplies for our products, particularly precision grade optical glass, that are available from only a few sources, each of which is located outside the United States. Also, outside vendors grind and polish certain of our lenses and other optical components, such as prisms and windows. Based upon our ordering experience to date, we believe the materials and services required for the production of our products are currently available in sufficient quantities. Our requirements are small relative to the total supply, and we are not currently encountering problems with availability. However, this does not mean that we will continue to have timely access to adequate supplies of essential materials and services in the future or that supplies of these materials and services will be available on satisfactory terms when the need arises. Our business could be severely damaged if we become unable to procure essential materials and services in adequate quantities and at acceptable prices. From time to time, subcontractors may produce certain of our products for us, and our business is subject to the risk that these subcontractors fail to make timely delivery. Our products and services are 11 Table of Contents also from time to time used as components of the products and services of other manufacturers. We are therefore subject to the risk that manufacturers that integrate our products or services into their own products or services are unable to acquire essential supplies and services from third parties in a timely fashion. If this occurs, we may not be able to deliver our products on a timely basis and our revenues may decline. Our customers may claim that the products we sold them were defective and if our insurance is not sufficient to cover a claim, we would be liable for the excess. Like any manufacturer, we are and always have been exposed to liability claims resulting from the use of our products. We maintain product liability insurance to cover us in the event of liability claims, and as of September 21, 2010, no such claims have been asserted or threatened against us. However, our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all possible future product liabilities. We would be liable if our business operations harmed the environment and a failure to maintain compliance with environmental laws could severely damage our business. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. From time to time, we use hazardous materials in our operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, our business could be severely damaged by any failure to maintain such compliance. Our quarterly financial results vary quarter to quarter and depend on factors which may adversely affect our stock price. As a result, we cannot predict with a high degree of certainty our operating results in any particular fiscal quarter. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly depending upon factors such as: •the timing of completion of significant orders; •the timing and amount of our research and development expenditures; •the costs of initial product production in connection with new products; •the timing of new product introductions—both by us and by our competitors; •the timing and level of market acceptance of new products or enhanced versions of our existing products; •our ability to retain existing customers and customers' continued demand for our products and services; •our customers' inventory levels, and levels of demand for our customers' products and services; and •competitive pricing pressures. We may not be able to grow or sustain revenues or achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis and levels of revenue and/or profitability may vary from one such period to another. We have a number of large, well-financed competitors who have research and marketing capabilities that are superior to ours. The industries in which we compete are highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have greater financial resources and manufacturing capabilities, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and larger technical staffs than we have. Other companies, some with greater experience in the telecommunications, optics, semiconductor or medical products industries, are seeking to produce products and services that compete with our products and services. 12 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK Trading in our common stock is limited and the price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility. Our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market at the opening of business on December 27, 2005, and is now traded on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, or OTCBB, under the ticker symbol "PEYE.OB," where we expect our common stock to remain for the foreseeable future. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in OTCBB stocks given the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile and the risk to investors is greater. These factors may reduce the potential market for our common stock by reducing the number of potential investors. This may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to sell shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of their shares. This could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, the price of our common stock may be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: •our ability to successfully conceive and to develop new products and services to enhance the performance characteristics and methods of manufacture of existing products; •our ability to retain existing customers and customers' continued demand for our products and services; •the timing of our research and development expenditures and of new product introductions; •the timing and level of acceptance of new products or enhanced versions of our existing products; and •price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance. "Penny stock" rules may make buying or selling our securities difficult which may make our stock less liquid and make it harder for investors to buy and sell our securities. Trading in our securities is subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules and it is anticipated that trading in our securities will continue to be subject to the penny stock rules for the foreseeable future. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules require that any broker-dealer who recommends our securities to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker- dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements may discourage broker-dealers from recommending transactions in our securities, which could severely limit the liquidity of our securities and consequently adversely affect the market price for our securities. We are contractually obligated to issue shares in the future, diluting your interest in us. As of June 30, 2010, there were approximately 94,378 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options outstanding, at a weighted average exercise price of $15.98 per share. An additional 134,698 shares of our common stock are reserved for issuance under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan as of June 30, 2010. Also outstanding as of June 30, 2010 are warrants for the issuance of an additional 898,621 shares of our common stock, at a weighted average exercise price of $4.18 per 13 Table of Contents share. The foregoing information gives effect to a 1 for 25 reverse stock split effective December 11, 2008. Moreover, we expect to issue additional shares and options to purchase shares of our common stock to compensate employees, consultants and directors, and we may issue additional shares to raise capital. Any such issuances will have the effect of further diluting the interest of the holders of our securities. 