ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as any amendments or updates reflected in subsequent filings with the SEC. We believe these risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results and could materially and adversely affect our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Due to the expiration of the TennCare contract and the impending expiration of the Medicare contract, our Board of Directors and management are engaging in a review of potential strategic alternatives, including pursuing a joint venture or other strategic partnership, completing a strategic acquisition or merger, or liquidating our assets. Our Board of Directors and management may not be able to identify any suitable strategic alternative or any identified strategic alternative or transaction may not be completed or successful. On November 1, 2008, UAHC Health Plan’s TennCare members transferred to other managed care organizations. As a result, Medicaid revenue associated with the TennCare contract ceased as of October 31, 2008. UAHC Health Plan performed its remaining obligations under the TennCare contract through the contract’s expiration on June 30, 2009. Further, we will not seek renewal of our contract with CMS to act as a Medicare Advantage qualified organization. The foregoing operations represented all of our consolidated revenues in fiscal 2009 and such recent developments have had a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, earnings, financial condition and cash flows. Due to the foregoing events, our board of directors and management continue to be engaged in a review of a variety of long-term strategic alternatives with the objective of pursuing a strategic alternative that satisfies three primary objectives: providing significant revenues; providing immediate positive EBITDA; and having long-term growth opportunities. During this review, all feasible options are being considered, including pursuing a joint venture or other strategic partnership, completing a strategic acquisition or merger, or liquidating our assets. Further, it is important to note that the exploration of strategic options includes all industries that satisfy the three primary objectives, not solely the healthcare industry. The evaluation of strategic alternatives can be lengthy and has inherent costs and risks. Previously, we noted that we expected to make a decision on any strategic alternative in the near term. Unfortunately, with the continued, extraordinary economic challenges confronting nearly all of the nation’s industry sectors, including healthcare, the process of evaluating our strategic options has taken longer than initially anticipated. Within the current economic climate, the number of potential business ventures that meet our criteria has been limited. Further, there is significant competition for small business opportunities and many of our competitors for acquisitions have greater financial and other resources than we do. We have not determined to pursue any specific strategic alternative at this time or whether to pursue any strategic alternative at all. There can be no assurance that the review of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction, or that the benefits of any strategic alternative pursued will in fact be realized. 9 Table of Contents Further, the market price of our stock may be volatile as we explore strategic alternatives, and volatility may persist or be increased if and when a decision to pursue an alternative is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. Our failure to successfully pursue and complete a strategic transaction could result in a liquidation. Further, any strategic alternative pursued will involve an evaluation and judgment of the risks, uncertainties and present challenges in implementation and integration. As a result, any such business arrangement or transaction may not lead to increased shareholder value. In addition, any strategic decision could lead to non-recurring or other charges. We have had no significant recent experience completing acquisitions or managing the integration of acquisitions. Further, any strategic alternative involving a different sector of the healthcare industry or a different industry altogether would involve greater risks and uncertainties for the current management team and operational structure as well as result in fewer synergies, if any. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee you that we will be able to successfully complete or integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire or seek to acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could harm our business. Any acquisitions of businesses, technologies, products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to offset the associated costs of the acquisitions or may result in other adverse effects. We have made significant personnel reductions in the last year. Our operational concerns and weaker financial condition may make it harder to attract qualified employees in the future. As we review the strategic options available to UAHC, our board and senior management team are also evaluating our current personnel, resources and organizational structure to ensure that we have the appropriate resources in place to achieve our current business objectives and execute our potential strategic action plans. This is especially important as we seek to ensure we fulfill our remaining contractual obligations in Tennessee. Failure to meet our contractual obligations to CMS could result in significant increases in expenses that we are working diligently to avoid. Even so, there are opportunities to reduce our operating costs, and we have significantly reduced our number of employees to fit our lower level of operating activity. At June 30, 2009, our total number of employees was reduced to 16 from 122 employees a year earlier. However, our difficulties in maintaining and growing our revenue and general weaker financial condition may make it harder for us to attract new employees while pursuing, and upon any consummation of, any strategic alternative. Our inability to attract new, qualified employees in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and relationships with third parties We may be subject to further governmental regulation which would adversely affect our operations. Although we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, we believe we are not subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, since we are not engaged in the business of investing or trading in securities. If, among other things, we engage in a strategic alternative which results in holding passive investment interests, we could be subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If so, we would be required to 10 Table of Contents register as an investment company and would incur significant registration and compliance costs. We have not and may not obtain a formal determination from the SEC as to our status under the Investment Company Act, and consequently, violation of the Investment Company Act could subject us to material adverse consequences. If our Board of Directors is unable to consummate a strategic alternative in a reasonable period of time, at a reasonable price or otherwise, the Board of Directors may determine that the best course of action is to commence an orderly winding up and liquidation of our operations over some period of time that is not currently determinable. If our board of directors is unable to consummate a strategic alternative in a reasonable period of time, at a reasonable price or otherwise, the board may determine that the best course of action is to commence an orderly winding up and liquidation of our operations. We may be placed into liquidation as a solvent entity (a voluntary liquidation approved by shareholders). In a winding up or liquidation, we would sell or otherwise dispose of our remaining assets, pay our existing liabilities, including contingent obligations (which would have to be estimated in advance of payment) and distribute net proceeds, if any, to our shareholders in one or more liquidating distributions. In liquidation, we would have significant obligations, including the costs incurred by the independent liquidator appointed. Additionally, we may be required to reduce our cash balance to support our continued operations during the liquidation process and therefore the amount of any liquidation proceeds available for distribution to our shareholders would be reduced. Accordingly, the amount and timing of distributions, if any, to shareholders in a liquidation cannot be determined because such would depend on a variety of factors. Our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, price volatility. The limited trading volume of our common stock may contribute to this price volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. We believe this volatility is due to, among other things, current expectations of our future financial performance and the volatility of the stock market in general. Moreover, our common stock, which trades on The NASDAQ Capital Market, does not have substantial trading volume. As a result, relatively small trades of our common stock may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock and, therefore, may contribute to the price volatility of our common stock. Because of the limited trading volume in our common stock and the price volatility of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares of common stock when you desire or at the price you desire. Moreover, the inability to sell your shares in a declining market because of such illiquidity or at a price you desire may substantially increase your risk of loss. We may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if we do not satisfy continued listing requirements. Our common stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted. NASDAQ’s continued listing standards include, among other things, (1) a $1.00 minimum closing bid price and (2) shareholders’ equity of $2.5 million, a market value of publicly held shares of $35 million or net income from operations of in the most recently completed fiscal year 11 Table of Contents or in two of the three most recently completed fiscal years, as well as additional stringent criteria that may be applied in the exercise of NASDAQ’s discretionary authority. In addition, if we are unable to consummate a strategic alternative in the near term, we may be deemed a “shell” company, which may result in delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market, as well as cause us to be ineligible to utilize Form S-3 and Form S-8 registration statements and cause Rule 144 to be unavailable to our shareholders. If our common stock were delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, you may find it difficult to dispose of your shares. If delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock will likely be quoted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called “pink sheets” or quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board. In addition, our common stock likely would be subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to “penny stocks.” These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. These requirements would make it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market and therefore reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by clients and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Reductions in funding for government healthcare programs could substantially reduce our revenues. Substantially all of the healthcare services we offer are through government-sponsored programs, such as Medicare. As a result, our current revenues are dependent, in large part, on continued funding for government healthcare programs at or above current levels. Reductions in payments over the near term under Medicare or the other programs under which we offer health and prescription drug plans could similarly reduce our revenues. The premium rates paid to Medicare health plans are established by contract, although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, including upper payment limits established by CMS, a member’s health profile and status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility categories, and the plan’s risk scores. Some members of Congress have proposed significant cuts in payments to Medicare Advantage plans. In addition, continuing government efforts to contain healthcare related expenditures, including prescription drug costs, and other federal budgetary constraints that result in changes in the Medicare program, including with respect to funding, could lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits or mandate additional benefits, and reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicare, which in turn could reduce the number of beneficiaries enrolled in our health plans and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. 12 Table of Contents CMS’s risk adjustment payment system and budget neutrality factors make our revenue and operating results difficult to predict and could result in material retroactive adjustments to our results of operations. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) has implemented a risk adjustment payment system for Medicare health plans to improve the accuracy of payments and establish incentives for Medicare plans to enroll and treat less healthy Medicare beneficiaries. CMS is phasing in this payment methodology with a risk adjustment model that bases a portion of the total CMS reimbursement payments on various clinical and demographic factors that include: hospital inpatient diagnoses; diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings, including hospital outpatient facilities and physician visits; gender; age; and Medicaid eligibility. CMS requires that all managed care companies capture, collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS twice a year for reconciliation with CMS’s internal database. As a result, it is difficult to predict with any certainty our future revenue or operating results. In addition, our SNP risk scores for any period may result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the payments we receive from CMS and our Medicare premium revenue. Payments to Medicare Advantage plans are also adjusted by a “budget neutrality” factor that Congress and CMS implemented in 2003 to prevent overall reductions in health plan payments while at the same time directing risk-adjusted payments to plans with more chronically ill enrollees. In general, this adjustment favorably impacted payments to Medicare Advantage plans. In February 2006, legislation was enacted that reduced federal funding for Medicare Advantage plans by approximately $6.5 billion over five years. Among other changes, the legislation provided for an accelerated phase-out of budget neutrality for risk-adjusted payments made to Medicare Advantage plans. These legislative changes will in general result in reduced payments to Medicare Advantage plans. If we are unable to estimate incurred but not reported medical benefits expense accurately, that could affect our reported financial results. Our medical benefits expense includes estimates of medical claims incurred but not reported (“IBNR”). Together with our internal and consulting actuaries, we estimate our medical cost liabilities using actuarial methods based on historical data adjusted for payment patterns, cost trends, product mix, seasonality, utilization of healthcare services and other relevant factors. Actual conditions could, however, differ from those assumed in the estimation process. We continually review and update our estimation methods and the resulting reserves and make adjustments, if necessary, to medical benefits expense when the criteria used to determine IBNR change and when actual claim costs are ultimately determined. Due to the uncertainties associated with the factors used in these assumptions, the actual amount of medical benefits expense that we incur may be materially more than the amount of IBNR originally estimated. If our future estimates of IBNR are inadequate, our reported results of operations could be negatively impacted. Our limited ability to estimate IBNR accurately could also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, exacerbating the extent of any adverse effect on our results. Our records may contain inaccurate information regarding the risk adjustment scores of our members, which could cause us to overstate or understate our revenue. 13 Table of Contents We maintain claims and encounter data that support the risk adjustment scores of our members, which partly determine the revenue we are entitled to for them. These data are submitted to us based on medical charts and diagnosis codes prepared by providers of medical care. Inaccurate coding by medical providers and inaccurate records for new members in our plan could result in inaccurate premium revenue and risk adjustment payments, which are subject to correction or update in later periods. Payments that we receive in connection with such corrected or updated information may be reflected in financial statements for periods subsequent to the period in which the revenue was earned. We may also find that our data regarding our members’ risk adjustment scores, when reconciled, require that we refund a portion of the revenue that we received. The competitive bidding process may adversely affect our revenues. Payments for local and regional Medicare Advantage plans are based on a competitive bidding process that may decrease the amount of premiums paid to us or cause us to increase the benefits we offer without a corresponding increase in premiums. As a result of the competitive bidding process, in order to maintain our current level of revenues, in the future we may need to reduce benefits or charge our members an additional premium, either of which could make our health plan less attractive to members and adversely affect our membership. We derive all of our Medicare revenues from our SNP operations, and legislative or regulatory actions, economic conditions or other factors that adversely affect those operations could materially reduce our revenues and increase our operating losses. Because SNPs are relatively new to Medicare and to the health insurance market generally, we do not know whether we will be able to sustain our SNP operation’s profitability over the long-term, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Factors that could affect our SNP operations include legislative, regulatory, intensity of competition, and utilization of benefit risks. In addition, Medicare beneficiaries who are dual-eligibles generally are able to disenroll and choose another SNP at any time, and certain Medicare beneficiaries also have a limited ability to disenroll from the SNP they initially select and choose a different SNP. We may not be able to retain the auto-assigned members or those members who affirmatively choose our SNP. Financial accounting for the Medicare Part D benefits is complex and requires difficult estimates and assumptions. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) provides for “risk corridors” designed to limit to some extent the losses SNPs would incur if their actual costs are higher than estimated in their bids submitted to CMS. As the risk corridors are designed to be symmetrical, a plan whose actual costs are below its expected costs is required to reimburse CMS based on a methodology similar to that set forth above. Reconciliation payments for estimated upfront federal reinsurance payments, or in some cases the entire amount of reinsurance payments, for Medicare beneficiaries who reach the drug benefits catastrophic threshold are made retroactively on an annual basis, which could expose plans to upfront costs in providing the benefit. 14 Table of Contents The accounting and regulatory guidance regarding the proper method of accounting for Medicare Part D, particularly as it relates to the timing of revenue and expense recognition, taken together with the complexity of the Part D product may lead to variability in our reporting of quarter-to-quarter earnings related to Medicare Part D. If state regulators do not approve payments by our health plan to us, our business and growth strategy could be materially impaired or we could be required to incur indebtedness to fund these strategies. Our health plan subsidiary, UAHC-TN, is subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions it can pay to us for purposes other than to pay income taxes related to its earnings. These laws and regulations also limit the amount of management fees UAHC-TN may pay to its affiliates, including our management subsidiary, United American of Tennessee, Inc., without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. If the regulators were to deny or significantly restrict our subsidiary’s requests to pay dividends to us or to pay management and other fees to its affiliate, the funds available to us would be limited, which could impair our ability to implement our business and growth strategies. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information that require significant compliance costs, and any failure to comply with these laws could result in material criminal and civil penalties. Regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, commonly called HIPAA, require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information within our Company and with third parties, including healthcare providers, business associates and our members. These regulations include: standards for common healthcare transactions, including claims information, plan eligibility and payment information; unique identifiers for providers and employers; security; privacy; and enforcement. We conduct our operations in an attempt to comply with all applicable HIPAA requirements. Given the complexity of the HIPAA regulations, the possibility that the regulations may change and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and sometimes conflicting interpretation, our ongoing ability to comply with the HIPAA requirements is uncertain. Additionally, the costs of complying with any changes to the HIPAA regulations may have a negative impact on our operations. Sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA health information provisions include criminal penalties and civil sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. A failure by us to comply with state health information laws that may be more restrictive than the HIPAA regulations could result in additional penalties. Because our premiums are established by contract and cannot be modified during the contract term, our revenues will likely be reduced if we are unable to manage our medical expenses effectively. Our SNP revenue is generated by premiums consisting of monthly payments per member that are established by the contract with CMS for our Medicare Advantage plan. If our medical expenses exceed our estimates, except in very limited circumstances or as a result of risk score adjustments for Medicare member health acuity, we will be unable to increase the premiums we receive under the contract during its then-current term. As a result, our revenue depends, to a 15 Table of Contents significant degree, on our ability to adequately predict and effectively manage our medical expenses related to the provision of healthcare services. Relatively small changes in our medical loss ratio can create significant changes in our financial results. Accordingly, failure to adequately predict and control medical expenses or to make reasonable estimates and maintain adequate accruals for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Competition in our Medicare Advantage service area may limit our ability to maintain or attract members, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a competitive environment subject to significant changes as a result of business consolidations, evolving Medicare products, new strategic alliances and aggressive marketing practices by other managed care organizations that compete with us for members. Our principal competitors for contracts, members and providers in our local service area include national, regional and local managed care organizations that serve Medicare. Many managed care companies and other new Part D plan participants have greater financial and other resources, larger enrollments, broader ranges of products and benefits, broader geographical coverage, more established reputations in the national market and our market, greater market share, larger contracting scale and lower costs than us. Our failure to maintain or attract members to our Medicare Advantage health plan as a result of such competition could adversely affect our results of operations. A disruption in our healthcare provider networks could have an adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. Our operations and results of operations are dependent in part on our ability to contract with healthcare providers and provider networks on favorable terms. In any particular service area, healthcare providers or provider networks might refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments or take other actions that could result in higher healthcare costs, disruption of benefits to our members or difficulty in meeting our regulatory or accreditation requirements. If healthcare providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, then our ability to market products or to be profitable in our service area could be adversely affected. Our provider networks could also be disrupted by the financial insolvency of a large provider group. Any disruption in our provider network could result in a loss of membership or higher healthcare costs. We rely on the accuracy of lists provided by CMS regarding the eligibility of a person to participate in our plan, and any inaccuracies in those lists could cause CMS to recoup premium payments from us with respect to members who are not ours, which could reduce our revenue and increase operating losses. Premium payments that we receive from CMS are based upon eligibility lists produced by federal and local governments. From time to time, CMS may require us to reimburse it for any premiums that we received from CMS based on eligibility and dual-eligibility lists that CMS later discovers contained individuals who were not in fact residing in our service area or eligible for any government-sponsored program or were eligible for a different premium category or a different program. We may have already provided services to these individuals. In addition to CMS’s potential recoupment of premiums previously paid, we also are at risk that CMS might fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to payment. Our operating losses would 16 Table of Contents increase as a result of such failure to receive payment from CMS if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from them. Outsourced service providers may make mistakes and subject us to financial loss or legal liability. We outsource certain of the functions associated with providing managed care and management services, including claims processing. The service providers to whom we outsource these functions and provide data could inadvertently or incorrectly adjust, revise, omit or transmit the data in a manner that could create inaccuracies in our risk adjustment information, cause us to overstate or understate our revenue, cause us to authorize incorrect payment levels to members of our provider networks, or violate certain laws and regulations, such as HIPAA. Negative publicity regarding the managed healthcare industry generally or the Company in particular could adversely affect our results of operations or business. Negative publicity regarding the managed healthcare industry generally or the Company in particular may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices that further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our results of operations by: • requiring us to change our products and services; • increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate; • adversely affecting our ability to market our products or services; or • adversely affecting our ability to attract and retain members. We are dependent upon our executive officers, and the loss of any one or more of them and their managed care expertise could adversely affect our business. Our operations are highly dependent on the efforts of William C. Brooks, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain other senior executives who have been instrumental in developing our business strategies and forging our business relationships. The Company neither has nor intends to pursue any long-term employment agreement with any of its key personnel. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain such relationships or attract such professionals. Although we believe we could replace any executive we lose, the loss of the leadership, knowledge and experience of Mr. Brooks and our other executive officers could adversely affect our business. Moreover, replacing one or more of our executives may be difficult or may require an extended period of time. We do not currently maintain key man insurance on any of our executive officers. On August 28, 2009, Stephen D. Harris, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company resigned from such positions. Mr. Harris will continue to serve as a director of the Company. The loss of the leadership, knowledge and experience of Mr. Harris could adversely affect our business. Violation of the laws and regulations applicable to us could expose us to liability, reduce our revenue, increase operating losses or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results. 17 Table of Contents The federal and state agencies administering the laws and regulations applicable to us have broad discretion to enforce them. We are subject on an ongoing basis to various governmental reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with our contracts, licenses and applicable laws and regulations. An adverse review, audit or investigation could result in any of the following: • loss of our right to participate in the Medicare program; • loss of our license to act as an HMO or to otherwise provide a service; • forfeiture or recoupment of amounts we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; • imposition of significant civil or criminal penalties, fines or other sanctions on us and our key employees; • damage to our reputation in existing and potential markets; • increased restrictions on marketing our products and services; and • inability to obtain approval for future products and services, geographic expansions or acquisitions. Claims relating to medical malpractice and other litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses. From time to time, we are party to various litigation matters, some of which seek monetary damages. Managed care organizations may be sued directly for alleged negligence, including in connection with the credentialing of network providers or for alleged improper denials or delay of care. In addition, our providers involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Although our network providers are independent contractors, claimants sometimes allege that a managed care organization should be held responsible for alleged provider malpractice, and some courts have permitted that theory of liability. Similar to other managed care companies, we may also be subject to other claims of our members in the ordinary course of business, including claims of improper marketing practices by our independent and employee sales agents and claims arising out of decisions to deny or restrict reimbursement for services. We cannot predict with certainty the eventual outcome of any pending litigation or potential future litigation, and there can be no assurance that we will not incur substantial expense in defending future lawsuits or indemnifying third parties with respect to the results of such litigation. The loss of even one of these claims, if it results in a significant damage award, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our exposure to potential liability under punitive damage or other theories could significantly decrease our ability to settle these claims on reasonable terms. We maintain errors and omissions insurance and other insurance coverage that we believe are adequate based on industry standards. Potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, our 18 Table of Contents insurers may dispute coverage or may be unable to meet their obligations or the amount of our insurance coverage and related reserves may be inadequate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future, or that insurance will continue to be available on a cost-effective basis, if at all. Moreover, even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves against such claims. The defense of any such actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we might incur significant expenses and might be unable to effectively operate our business. We may incur debt in the future. It may be necessary for us to obtain financing with a bank or financial institution to provide funds for working capital, capital purchases, potential acquisitions and business development. However, because of our cash flow position, we do not expect that we will have any immediate need to obtain additional financing. Interest costs associated with any debt financing may increase our operating losses and reduce our cash flows. Further, the terms on which amounts may be borrowed — including standard financial covenants regarding the maintenance of financial ratios and the prohibition against engaging in major corporate transactions or reorganizations and the payment of dividends— may impose additional constraints on our business operations and our financial strength. If we are unable or fail to properly maintain effective and secure management information systems, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs, that could result in operational disruptions and other adverse consequences. Our business depends significantly on effective and secure information systems. The information gathered and processed by our management information systems assists us in, among other things, marketing and sales tracking, billing, claims processing, medical management, medical care cost and utilization trending, financial and management accounting, reporting, planning and analysis. These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs and handle our expansion and growth. Any inability or failure to properly maintain management information systems or related disaster recovery programs, successfully update or expand processing capability or develop new capabilities to meet our business needs in a timely manner could result in operational disruptions, loss of existing members, difficulty in attracting new members or in implementing our growth strategies, disputes with members and providers, regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses, loss of our ability to produce timely and accurate reports, and other adverse consequences. To the extent a failure in maintaining effective information systems occurs, we may need to contract for these services with third-party management companies, which could be on less favorable terms to us and could significantly disrupt our operations and information flow. Furthermore, our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, security breaches could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation and possible liability and loss. 19 Table of Contents Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches and our business operations and operating results could be adversely affected by cancellation of contracts, loss of members and potential criminal and civil sanctions if they are not prevented. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 