Item 1A. Risk Factors Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “we,” “us,” “our” in this subsection “Risk Factors” refer to Bancorp and its subsidiaries. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of future operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 32 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by changes in economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. The thrift industry is affected, directly and indirectly, by local, domestic, and international economic and political conditions, and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, tight money supply, real estate values, international conflicts and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our potential profitability. Any future rises in interest rates, while increasing the income yield on our earning assets, may adversely affect loan demand and the cost of funds and, consequently, our profitability. Any future decreases in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability because such decreases may reduce the amounts that we may earn on our assets. Economic downturns have resulted and may continue to result in the delinquency of outstanding loans. We do not expect any one particular factor to materially affect our results of operations. However, downtrends in several areas, including real estate, construction and consumer spending, have had and may continue to have a material adverse impact on our ability to remain profitable. Further, there can be no assurance that the asset values of the loans included in our loan portfolio, the value of properties and other collateral securing such loans, or the value of foreclosed real estate will remain at current levels. The changing economic environment poses significant challenges for Bancorp. Negative developments in the financial services industry from 2008 into 2013 have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn globally. While we are beginning to experience modest improvement in performance, we may experience similar negative conditions in 2014. In addition, as a consequence of the recent United States recession, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the decline in the housing market and lack of consumer spending. Unemployment continues to be higher than historical averages. As a result of these financial economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including residential, construction, land and residential building lots, multi-family, commercial and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly while the significant decline in economic growth has led to a slowdown in banking related activities. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. We are operating in a challenging economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local market conditions. Negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. If the economy does not continue to improve or worsen, declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses and other factors, could have adverse effects on our borrowers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate properties are often dependent upon the successful operation of management of the properties, repayment of these loans are subject to adverse conditions in the economy. If consumer spending decreases, businesses located in commercial real estate property may close, reducing the rental income of the Bank’s borrower. The reduction in rental income may result in the borrower being unable to make payments on the loan. Any deterioration in economic conditions could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and could result in the following: · an increase in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures; · a decline in demand for our products and services; · a decrease in low cost or non-interest-bearing deposits; and · a decline in the value of the collateral for our loans, which in turn may reduce customers’ borrowing capacities, and reduce the value of assets and collateral supporting our existing loans. 33 Table of Contents During recent years, we experienced higher than normal levels of non-performing loans. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve in the near term or will not worsen. Moreover, such conditions may result in a further increase in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income, and may continue to have an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, possibly requiring us to add to our allowance for loan losses. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The operations of financial institutions, such as ours, are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest that in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the policies of various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, our balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government bonds, corporate securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than those offered by financial institutions such as ours. During the last few years the Federal Reserve’s involvement in the purchase of U.S. government debt securities, commonly known as “quantitative easing,” has caused interest rates to be lower than they would have been without such involvement. Actual or anticipated efforts by the Federal Reserve to taper or reduce quantitative easing could cause interest rates to rise, disrupt financial markets and could adversely impact the value of our investment portfolio or general economic conditions. We expect to experience continual competition for deposit accounts which may make it difficult to reduce the interest paid on some deposits. We believe that, in the current market environment, we have adequate policies and procedures for maintaining a conservative interest rate sensitive position. However, there is no assurance that this condition will continue. A sharp movement up or down in deposit rates, loan rates, investment fund rates and other interest-sensitive instruments on our balance sheet could have a significant, adverse impact on our net interest income and operating results. Further downgrades of the U.S. credit rating, impending automatic spending cuts or another government shutdown could negatively impact our liquidity, financial conditions and earnings. Recent U.S. debt ceiling and budget deficit concerns have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns, or a recession in the United States. Although lawmakers passed legislation to raise the federal debt ceiling on multiple occasions, ratings agencies have lowered or threatened to lower the long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States. The impact of this or any further downgrades to the government’s sovereign credit rating or its perceived creditworthiness could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. Absent further quantitative easing by the Federal Reserve, these developments could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. In addition, disagreement over the federal budget has caused the U.S. federal government to shut down for periods of time. Continued adverse political and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents Most of our loans are secured by real estate located in our market area. If there is a continuing downturn in the real estate market, additional borrowers may default on their loans and we may not be able to fully recover our loans. A continuing downturn in the real estate market could adversely affect our business because most of our loans are secured by real estate. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in the states of Maryland, Virginia and Delaware. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. In addition to the risks generally present with respect to mortgage lending activities, our operations are affected by other factors affecting our borrowers, including: · the ability of our mortgagors to make mortgage payments, · the ability of our borrowers to attract and retain buyers or tenants, which may in turn be affected by local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for rental space in the area, the attractiveness of properties to buyers and tenants, and competition from other available space, or by the ability of the owner to pay leasing commissions, provide adequate maintenance and insurance, pay tenant improvements costs and make other tenant concessions, · interest rate levels and the availability of credit to refinance loans at or prior to maturity, and · increased operating costs, including energy costs, real estate taxes and costs of compliance with environmental controls and regulations. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 99% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans will be reduced. Our ability to recover defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to incur financial losses on defaulted loans. In addition, approximately 50% of the book value of our loans consisted of construction, land acquisition and development loans, commercial real estate loans and land loans, which present additional risks described in “Item 1. Business - Construction Loans” of this Form 10-K. Our loan portfolio exhibits a high degree of risk. We have a significant amount of nonresidential loans, as well as construction and land loans granted on a speculative basis. Although permanent single-family, owner-occupied loans represent the largest single component of assets and currently impaired loans, a significant level of nonresidential loans, construction loans, and land loans, results in an above-average risk exposure. Our monitoring of higher risk loans and the internal asset review function may be inadequate in view of current real estate market weaknesses. At December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, our nonperforming loans (those loans 90 or more days in arrears) equaled $11,035,000 and $37,495,000, respectively. There were 45 residential loans (including construction, acquisition and development, land loans and home equity lines of credit) in non-accrual status totaling $9,576,000 and 11 commercial loans in non-accrual status totaling $1,459,000 at December 31, 2013 compared to 87 residential loans in non-accrual status totaling $29,714,000, and 17 commercial loans in non-accrual status totaling $7,781,000 at December 31, 2012. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, there were $22,259,000 and $9,225,000 of net loan charge-offs, respectively. At December 31, 2013, the total allowance for loan losses was $11,739,000, which was 1.94% of total net loans, compared with $17,478,000, which was 2.64% of total net loans, as of December 31, 2012. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Our operations are located in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, which makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. An economic downturn or recession in this area may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Unlike larger banking organizations that are geographically diversified, our operations are concentrated in Anne Arundel County, Maryland. In addition, nearly all of our loans have been made to borrowers in the states of Maryland, Virginia and Delaware. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in our market area. A deterioration or recession in economic conditions in this market could result in one or more of the following: · a decrease in deposits; · an increase in loan delinquencies; · an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; · a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and · a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, and reduction in customers’ borrowing capacities. Any of the foregoing factors may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Failure to comply with the Supervisory and Formal Agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In November 2009, we and the Bank each entered into a supervisory agreement with the OTS, which agreements primarily addressed issues identified in the OTS’ reports of examination of our and the Bank’s operations and financial condition conducted in 2009. Our supervisory agreement is now enforced by the FRB. In April 2013, the Bank entered into a formal agreement with the OCC, which primarily addressed issues identified in the OCC’s report of examination of the Bank’s operations and financial condition in 2012 and prescribes certain corrective actions that the Bank must take. The formal agreement supersedes and terminates the supervisory agreement entered into between OTS and the Bank. Although we and the Bank each intend to take such actions as may be necessary to enable us to comply with our respective requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply fully with the provisions of these agreements, or to do so within the timeframes required. Moreover, there can be no assurance that compliance with such requirements will not be more time consuming or more expensive than anticipated, or that efforts to comply with such requirements will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of us or the Bank. Failure to comply with these agreements, or other supervisory directives, could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties, orders to cease and desist or other regulatory or enforcement actions. Accordingly, any material failure to comply with these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to federal and state regulation and the monetary policies of the FRB. Such regulation and policies can have a material adverse effect on our earnings and prospects. Our operations are heavily regulated and will be affected by present and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. In particular, the monetary policies of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past, and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the FRB to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary polices of the FRB or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. 36 Table of Contents If the Bank becomes “undercapitalized” as determined under the “prompt corrective action” initiatives of the federal bank regulators, such regulatory authorities will have the authority to require the Bank to, among other things, alter, reduce or terminate any activity that the regulator determines poses an excessive risk to the Bank. The Bank could further be directed to take any other action that the regulatory agency determines will better carry out the purpose of prompt corrective action. The Bank could be subject to these prompt corrective action restrictions if federal regulators determine that the Bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. Some or all of the foregoing actions and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, which is still being implemented, may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS was merged into the OCC, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies are now regulated by the FRB. Also, included was the creation of a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was previously performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally charted depository institutions was reduced as well. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations may not be known for years until all regulations implementing the statute are written, adopted and implemented. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Bancorp will become subject to more stringent capital requirements, which may have a material adverse effect on Bancorp’s operations. The federal banking agencies have recently adopted proposals that when effective will substantially amend the regulatory capital rules applicable to us and the Bank. The amendments implement the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The amended rules establish new higher capital ratio requirements, narrow the definitions of capital, impose new operating restrictions on banking organizations with insufficient capital buffers and increase the risk weighting of certain assets. The amended rules will be effective with respect to us and the Bank in January 2015, with certain requirements to be phased in beginning in 2016. The application of more stringent capital requirements to us and the Bank could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could further limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares, We have established an allowance for loan losses based on our management's estimates. Actual losses could differ significantly from those estimates. If the allowance is not adequate, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and the price of our common stock. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy of our market area. Bancorp has seen a significant decrease in TDR’s balances in 2013 compared to 2012, due to the bulk loan sales. However, TDR balances are still high compared to historical averages. 37 Table of Contents In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we may need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We compete with a number of local, regional and national financial institutions for customers. We face strong competition from savings and loan associations, banks, and other financial institutions that have branch offices or otherwise operate in our market area, as well as many other companies now offering a range of financial services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and larger branch systems than us. In addition, many of our competitors have higher legal lending limits than us. Particularly intense competition exists for sources of funds including savings and retail time deposits as well as for loans and other services offered by us. In addition, over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and this trend is expected to continue. Significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry may result in one or more large competitors emerging in our primary target market. The financial resources, human capital and expertise of one or more large institutions could threaten our ability to maintain our competitiveness. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and mutual funds, have been permitted to engage in activities that compete directly with traditional bank business. Competition with various financial institutions could hinder our ability to maintain profitable operations and grow our business. We face intense competitive pressure on customer pricing, which may materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability. We generate net interest income, and charge our customers fees, based on prevailing market conditions for deposits, loans and other financial services. In order to increase deposit, loan and other service volumes, enter new market segments and expand our base of customers and the size of individual relationships, we must provide competitive pricing for such products and services. In order to stay competitive, we have had to intensify our efforts around attractively pricing our products and services. To the extent that we must continue to adjust our pricing to stay competitive, we will need to grow our volumes and balances in order to offset the effects of declining net interest income and fee-based margins. Increased pricing pressure also enhances the importance of cost containment and productivity initiatives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. 38 Table of Contents Our brand, reputation and relationship with our customers are key assets of our business and may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. Our brand and its attributes are key assets of our business. The ability to attract and retain customers to Bancorp’s products and services is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of us and the industry in which we operate. Our business may be affected by actions taken by competitors, customers, third party providers, employees, regulators, suppliers or others that impact the perception of the brand, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as “predatory,” customer service quality issues, and employee relations issues. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. Our business is highly reliant on technology and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with technology. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Our business involves storing and processing sensitive customer data. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in theft of customer data or failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, data storage, processing and other systems. Our inability to access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timeliness and efficiency of our business operations. In addition, we operate a number of money transfer and related electronic, check and other payment connections that are vulnerable to individuals engaging in fraudulent activities that seek to compromise payments and related financial systems illegally. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, result in increased expense to contain the event and/or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers or expose us to civil litigation and regulatory fines and sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is highly reliant on third party vendors and our ability to manage the operational risks associated with outsourcing those services. We rely on third parties to provide services that are integral to our operations. These vendors provide services that support our operations, including storage and processing of sensitive consumer date. A cyber security breach of a vendor’s system may result in theft of our data or disruption of business processes. A material breach of customer data at a service provider’s site may negatively impact our business reputation and cause a loss of customer business; result in increased expense to contain the event and/or require that we provide credit monitoring services for affected customers, result in regulatory fines and sanctions and may result in litigation. In most cases, we will remain primarily liable to our customers for losses arising from a breach of a vendor’s data security system. We rely on our outsourced service providers to implement and maintain prudent cyber security controls. We have procedures in place to assess a vendor’s cyber security controls prior to establishing a contractual relationship and to periodically review assessments of those control systems; however, these procedures are not infallible and a vendor’s system can be breached despite the procedures we employ. If our third party providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. 39 Table of Contents We continually encounter technological change, and, if we are unable to develop and implement efficient and customer friendly technology, we could lose business. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to achieve additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our senior management team, and if we are not able to retain our senior management team, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team, including Alan J. Hyatt, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. We depend on the services of Mr. Hyatt and the other members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our strategies, and maintain and develop our customer relationships. We do not have an employment agreement with members of our senior management, nor do we maintain “key-man” life insurance on our senior management. If we are unable to retain Mr. Hyatt and other members of our senior management team, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a result, current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, referred to as Section 404, we are required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting. We are currently not required to include an opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm as to our internal controls because we are a “smaller reporting company” under SEC rules and, therefore, stockholders do not have the benefit of such an independent review of our internal controls. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If, in the future, we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, or, if required, our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential stockholders and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business. We have had, and may in the future have material weakness in our internal controls. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, we reported that we had a material weakness in our internal controls which lead to restatement of our financial statements. We have undertaken a number of corrective measures and believe we have fully remediated such deficiencies. While we have reported no material weaknesses in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any material weaknesses in the future. Any current or future controls deficiencies could impair our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information, which could lead to further restatements, SEC inquiries and enforcement actions, penalties, fines, investor litigation and other adverse actions. 40 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways. Terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, as well as future events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions, may impact our operations. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence and savings to decrease or could result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock and on the future price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future. The supervisory agreements with the Federal Reserve and OCC require, among other things, that Bancorp and the Bank obtain prior OCC approval before any dividends or capital distributions can be made and that Bancorp obtain prior Federal Reserve approval before purchasing or redeeming shares of its stock. In addition, Bancorp suspended its common stock dividend in the fourth quarter of 2009 to preserve its capital. Although we expect to be able to resume our policy of quarterly dividend payments, this dividend policy will be reviewed in light of future earnings, OCC restrictions and other considerations. No assurance can be given, therefore, that cash dividends on our common stock will be paid in the future. Our Series A preferred stock, Series B preferred stock and 2035 Debentures contain restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends on, or repurchase our common stock. Our ability to declare dividends on our common stock is limited by the terms of our Series A 8.0% Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series A Preferred Stock”) and Series B preferred stock. We may not declare or pay any dividend on, make any distributions relating to, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment relating to, or make any guarantee payment with respect to our common stock in any quarter until the dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock has been declared and paid for such quarter, subject to certain minor exceptions. Additionally, we may not declare or pay any dividend or distribution on our common stock, and we may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any of our common stock, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods, including the latest completed dividend period, on all outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside), subject to certain minor exceptions. Dividends on the Series A preferred stock and Series B preferred stock have not been declared since the first quarter of 2012 because Bancorp did not receive approval from the FRB to pay such dividends. As of December 31, 2013, the cumulative amount of dividends of the Series B preferred stock in arrears not declared, including interest on unpaid dividends at 9% per year, was $2,125,000. Accordingly, Bancorp will not be able to pay dividends on its common stock until the dividend arrearages on its Series B preferred stock have been paid in full. Additionally, the dividend rate on our Series B preferred stock increased from 5% to 9% beginning November 21, 2013, which increased the amount of dividends that we are required to pay on our Series B preferred stock by $936,000 per year and decreased the amount available to common stockholders. Further, under the terms of our Junior Subordinated Debt Securities due 2035 (the “2035 Debentures”), if (i) there has occurred and is continuing an event of default, (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the related guarantee or (iii) we have given notice of our election to defer payments of interest on the 2035 Debentures by extending the interest distribution period as provided in the indenture governing the 2035 Debentures and such period, or any extension thereof, has commenced and is continuing, then we may not, among other things, declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of our capital stock, including our common stock. As permitted under the terms of the 2035 Debenture, as of December 31, 2013, Bancorp has deferred the payment of seven quarters of interest and the cumulative amount of interest in arrears not paid, including interest on unpaid interest, was $860,000. Accordingly, Bancorp will not be able to pay dividends on its common stock until the interest deferrals on the 2035 Debentures have been paid in full. 41 Table of Contents An investment in our securities is not insured against loss. Investments in our common stock, are not deposits insured against loss by the FDIC or any other entity. As a result, an investor may lose some or all of his, her or its investment. Conversion of our Series A preferred stock or exercise of the warrant issued to the Treasury Department will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. In two private placements conducted in November 2008, we issued Series A preferred stock convertible into 437,500 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment, and a warrant to purchase 556,976 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment. The conversion of some or all of the Series A preferred stock or the exercise of the warrant will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Series A preferred stock or warrant may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Series A preferred stock or exercise of the warrant could depress the price of our common stock. “Anti-takeover” provisions will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our equity holders. Our charter presently contains certain provisions that may be deemed to be “anti-takeover” and “anti-greenmail” in nature in that such provisions may deter, discourage or make more difficult the assumption of control of us by another corporation or person through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or similar transaction or series of transactions. For example, currently, our charter provides that our Board of Directors may amend the charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our stock or the number of shares of any class that we have authority to issue. In addition, our charter provides for a classified Board, with each Board member serving a staggered three-year term. Directors may be removed only for cause and only with the approval of the holders of at least 75 percent of our common stock. The overall effects of the “anti-takeover” and “anti-greenmail” provisions may be to discourage, make more costly or more difficult, or prevent a future takeover offer, prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their securities in a takeover offer, and enhance the possibility that a future bidder for control of us will be required to act through arms-length negotiation with our Board of Directors. These provisions may also have the effect of perpetuating incumbent management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 