Item 1A. Risk Factors Any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These risks could also cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements contained herein and elsewhere. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to significant competitive pressures The OTC healthcare product, pharmaceutical and consumer product industries are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, technical staffs, facilities, marketing resources, product development, distribution and experience than we do. Our competitors may have certain advantages, including the ability to allocate greater resources for new product development, marketing and other purposes. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including product quality and price, availability, speed to market, consumer marketing, reliability, credit terms, brand name recognition, delivery time and post-sale service and support, and new and existing product innovation and commercialization. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our earnings may be significantly negatively impacted. - 8 - Our long range business plan may not be successful We have aligned our operations to focus principally in the research, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of OTC cold remedy and consumer products, natural based health products and other supplement and cosmeceutical products. In addition, we may seek to acquire from third parties or enter into other arrangements with respect to new formulations, ingredients, applications and other products developed by third parties who may be seeking our commercialization, marketing and distribution expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectuate our business plan successfully or that our revenue growth will continue. In addition, we may not be successful in acquiring or otherwise entering into any new lines of business and, if we are successful in doing so, there can be no assurance that such new business will achieve profitability. We will need to obtain additional capital to support long term product development and commercialization programs Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability depends in large part on our ability to commence, execute and complete new and existing product innovation and commercialization, including the Joint Venture product development initiatives, and, if required, clinical programs to obtain regulatory approvals in the United States and elsewhere. We can give no assurance that we will be able to achieve such product innovation and commercialization, to obtain any required approvals or to achieve significant levels of sales. The amount of capital that may be needed to complete product development initiatives will depend on many factors which may include but are not limited to (i) the cost involved in applying for and obtaining FDA, international regulatory or other technical approvals, (ii) whether we elect to establish partnering arrangements for development, sales, manufacturing and marketing of such products, (iii) the level of future sales of OTC cold remedy products, and expense levels for marketing efforts, (iv) whether we can establish and maintain strategic arrangements for development, sales, manufacturing and marketing of our products, and (v) whether any or all of the options for our Common Stock issued to employees of the Company are exercised and the timing and amount of these exercises. Should research or commercialization activity progress on certain formulations, resulting expenditures may require substantial financial support. The current sales level of our OTC cold remedy products may not generate all the funds we anticipate will be needed to support future product acquisition or development. Accordingly, in addition to funding from operations, we may in the short and long term seek to raise capital through the issuance of securities or to secure other financing sources to support our research, new product technologies, applications, licensing, commercialization and other development opportunities. If we obtain such funding through the issuance of equity securities, it would result in the dilution of current stockholders’ ownership in the Company. Any debt financing, if available, may include financial and other covenants that could restrict use of proceeds of such financing or impose other business and financial restrictions on us. In addition, we may consider alternative approaches such as licensing, joint venture, or partnership arrangements to provide long term capital. There can be no assurances that we will have access to the capital required to fun these aspects of our business on favorable terms or at all. We may not be able to access our Equity Line of Credit under commercially reasonable terms On November 21, 2012, we entered into the equity line of credit agreement (such arrangement, the “Equity Line”) with Dutchess Opportunity Fund II, LP (“Dutchess”) whereby, Dutchess committed to purchase, subject to certain restrictions and conditions, up to 2,500,000 shares of our Common Stock, over a period of 36 months expiring in December 2015. In Fiscal 2013, we sold an aggregate of 289,474 shares of Common Stock to Dutchess in which we derived approximately net proceeds of $444,000. In Fiscal 2012, we sold an aggregate of 883,722 shares of Common Stock to Dutchess in which we derived approximately $1.1 million in net proceeds. During the period January 1, 2014 through to February 25, 2014, we sold an aggregate of 559,318 shares of Common Stock to Dutchess under and pursuant to the Equity Line and derived net proceeds of approximately $947,000. At March 15, 2014, we have 767,486 shares of our Common Stock available for sale, at our discretion, under the terms of the Equity Line and covered pursuant to a registration statement. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to access our Equity Line to finance our growth. Recent volatility in the credit markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through our Equity Line on terms that we believe to be reasonable, or at all. Our Equity Line is limited and may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. - 9 - Our Equity Line with Dutchess may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down Pursuant to the Equity Line, Dutchess committed to purchase, subject to certain conditions, up to 2,500,000 shares of our Common Stock over a thirty-six month period. Dutchess will not be obligated to purchase shares under the Equity Line unless certain conditions are met, which include, among others: effectiveness of the registration statement; the continued listing of our stock on the NASDAQ Global Market; our compliance with our obligations under the purchase agreement and registration rights agreement entered into with Dutchess; the absence of injunctions or other governmental actions prohibiting the issuance of our Common Stock to Dutchess; the absence of violations of shareholder approval requirements with respect to such issuance of our common stock to Dutchess and the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Dutchess. If we are unable to access funds through the Equity Line, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms or at all. Any draw downs under our Equity Line with Dutchess may result in dilution to our shareholders If we sell shares to Dutchess under the equity line, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current shareholders, and may result in downward pressure on the price of our Common Stock. If we draw down amounts under the equity line, we will issue shares to Dutchess at a discount of 5% from the average price of our Common Stock. If we draw down amounts under the equity line when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing, and may further decrease our share price. We may not be able to commercialize new products through our Joint Venture The Joint Venture is at its early stage of development where product and market research has been initiated and new product initiatives are being evaluated and prioritized for future development and commercialization. Prior to any new product being available for sale, substantial resources will have to be committed to commercialize a product which may include research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval. The Joint Venture may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities and increase our expenses. We face significant technological risks inherent in developing these products. The Joint Venture may be subject to delays and/or ultimately unable to successfully implement its business plan and strategy to develop and commercialize one or more non-prescription remedies using certain patented and proprietary TPMTM that exploit certain compounds that embody the TPMTM for use in a product combining one or more of such compounds with an OTC drug. The commercialization and ultimate product market acceptance is subject to, among other influences, consumer purchasing trends, demand for our OTC drug, health and wellness trends, regulatory factors, retail acceptance and overall economic and market conditions. As a consequence, we may suspend or abandon some or all of our proposed new products before they become commercially viable which could have an adverse affect on our business. Even if we develop and obtain approval of a new product, if we cannot successfully commercialize it in a timely manner, our business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Instability and volatility in the financial markets could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows In recent years, there has been substantial volatility in financial markets due at least in part to the global economic environment. In addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. Moreover, customer spending habits may be adversely affected by the current economic environment and prevailing high unemployment rates in the United States. These conditions could have an adverse effect on our industry and business, including our access to funding sources, demand for our products and our customers’ ability to continue to purchase our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to issue equity or to incur indebtedness to finance our growth. Recent turmoil and volatility in the credit markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, or at all. - 10 - Commodity price increases will increase our operating costs and may negatively affect financial results Commodity prices impact our business directly through the cost of raw materials used to make our products (such as corn syrup, sucrose and other commodities and ingredients) and the amount we pay to purchase packaging for our products (such as paper, board and plastic). Commodities such as these are susceptible to price volatility caused by conditions outside of our control, including fluctuations in commodities markets, currency fluctuations, availability of supply, weather, consumer demand and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Increases in the price of our commodities and other raw materials would negatively impact our gross margins and/or our sales volume if we were unable to offset such increases through increases in our selling price, changes in product mix or cost reduction/productivity enhancement efforts. The sales of our primary product fluctuates by season and from Cold Season to Cold Season Our sales are derived principally from our OTC cold remedy products. A significant portion of our business is highly seasonal, which causes major variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. The third and fourth quarters generally represent the largest sales volume for our OTC cold remedy products. In addition, our sales are influenced by and subject to fluctuations in the timing of purchase and the ultimate level of demand for our products which are a function of the timing, length and severity of each cold season. Generally, a Cold Season is defined as the period of September to March when the incidence of the common cold rises as a consequence of the change in weather and other factors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our working capital needs and inventory to meet the fluctuating demand for these products. Failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand may result in the production of excess inventory which may be expensive to store or which we may be required to dispose if such excess inventory remains unsold. Conversely, if products achieve greater success than anticipated for any given quarter, this may result in insufficient inventory to meet customer demand. If we do not manage our working capital needs and inventory, our business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our performance may fluctuate when our retail customers are affected simultaneously by the same economic, regulatory or health and wellness factors Our revenues are significantly concentrated in our OTC cold remedy products. Our retail customers are subject to fluctuations of business based upon consumer purchasing trends, demand for cold remedy products and overall economic and market conditions. Consequently, many retailers will likely be influenced at the same time by similar economic conditions, regulatory factors or health and wellness trends, which can affect the level of demand for our products. It is reasonable to expect that, if one retailer reduces or delays its purchasing in response to a general economic, regulatory or health and wellness factor, other retailers may also decide to reduce or delay their purchasing at approximately the same time. Accordingly, our sales are subject to fluctuations as a result of such factors. We have a concentration of sales to and accounts receivable from several large retail customers Although we have a broad range of retail customers that includes many national chain, regional, specialty and local retail stores, our five largest customers account for a significant percentage of our sales, approximately 57% of total revenues for each of Fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively. In addition, retail customers comprising the five largest accounts receivable balances represented 68% and 65% of total accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We extend credit to retail customers based upon an evaluation of their financial condition and credit history, and collateral is not generally required. If one or more of these large retail customers cannot pay, the write-off of their accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The loss of sales to any one or more of these large retail customers would also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Retail customer’s strategic business plans may negatively influence the distribution of our products to consumer. Changes in our retail and distribution customers strategic business plans including, but not limited to, (i) expansions, mergers, and/or consolidations, (ii) retail shelf space allocations for products within each outlet and in particular the cough/cold category in which we compete, (iii) changes in their private label assortment and (iv) product selections, distribution allocation, merchandising programs and retail pricing of our products as well as competitive products could affect the consumer sales of our products and could result in a material adverse effect to our business and financial condition. - 11 - Our future success depends on the continued sales of our principal product For Fiscal 2013 and 2012, our cold remedy products, principally Cold-EEZE® Cold Remedy, represented approximately 94% and 95%, respectively, of our total sales. Accordingly, we depend on the continued acceptance of Cold-EEZE® Cold Remedy products by our customers. Our investments in and strategies used for our brand marketing are critical to achieve brand awareness with current consumers, educate potential new consumers and convert potential consumers into customers. However, there can be no assurance that Cold-EEZE® Cold Remedy products will continue to receive, maintain or increase market acceptance. The inability to successfully commercialize Cold-EEZE® Cold Remedy products in the future and/or expand its product line, for any reason, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, prospects and ability to continue operations. Our products and potential new products are or may be subject to extensive governmental regulation Our business is regulated by various agencies of the states and localities where our products are sold. Governmental regulations in foreign countries where we plan to commence or expand sales may prevent or delay entry into a market or prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation of certain of our products. In addition, no prediction can be made as to whether new domestic or foreign legislation regulating our activities will be enacted. Any new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Non-compliance with any applicable requirements may subject us or the manufacturers of our products to agency action, including warning letters, fines, product recalls, seizures and injunctions. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our cold remedy products are subject to regulation by several federal agencies, including (i) the FDA, (ii) the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), (iii) the Consumer Product Safety Commission, (iv) the United States Department of Agriculture, (v) the United States Postal Service, (vi) the United States Environmental Protection Agency and (vii) the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration. In addition to OTC and prescription drug products, the FDA regulates the safety, manufacturing, labeling and distribution of dietary supplements, including vitamins, minerals and herbs, food additives, food supplements, over-the-counter and prescription drugs and cosmetics. The FTC also has overlapping jurisdiction with the FDA to regulate the promotion and advertising of vitamins, over-the-counter drugs, cosmetics and foods. In addition, our cold remedy products are homeopathic remedies which are subject to standards established by the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States (“HPUS”). HPUS sets the standards for source, composition and preparation of homeopathic remedies which are officially recognized under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, as amended. Preclinical development, clinical trials, product manufacturing, labeling, distribution and marketing of potential new products are also subject to federal and state regulation in the United States and other countries. Clinical trials and product marketing and manufacturing are subject to the rigorous review and approval processes of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. To obtain approval of a new drug product, a company must demonstrate through adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that the drug product is safe and effective for its intended use. Obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive. Typically, obtaining regulatory approval for pharmaceutical products requires substantial resources and takes several years. The length of this process depends on the type, complexity and novelty of the product and the nature of the disease or other indication to be treated. Preclinical studies must comply with FDA regulations. Clinical trials must also comply with FDA regulations to ensure safety of the human subjects in the trial and may require large numbers of test subjects, complex protocols and possibly lengthy follow-up periods. Consequently, satisfaction of government regulations may take several years: may cause delays in introducing potential new products for considerable periods of time and may require imposing costly procedures upon our activities. If regulatory approval of new products is not obtained in a timely manner or not at all, we could be materially adversely affected. Even if regulatory approval of new products is obtained, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed which could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and future operations. We have a history of losses and limited working capital We have experienced net losses for each of the seven of the past eight fiscal years. In Fiscal 2013 we realized net income of $405,000. There can be no assurance that our strategic focus will result in any revenue growth or that we will be successful in initiating or acquiring any new lines of business, or that any such new lines of business will achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2013, we had working capital of approximately $6.7 million which we believe is an acceptable and adequate level of working capital to support our business. Our ability to fund working capital needs will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. - 12 - Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to use NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. For these reasons, we may not be able to use a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheet, even if we attain profitability. Our success is dependent on key personnel Our success depends, in part, upon the continued service of key personnel, such as Mr. Ted Karkus, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Robert V. Cuddihy, Jr., Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and certain managers and strategists within the Company. If we are unable to attract and retain such personnel, the loss of the services of any one of them could have a material adverse effect on us. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and health product positions. In particular, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified health and science professionals. Competition for skilled employees who can perform the services that we require is intense and hiring, training, motivating, retaining and managing employees with the skills required is time-consuming and expensive. If we are not be able to hire sufficient professional staff to support our operations, or to train, motivate, retain and manage the employees we do hire, it could have a material adverse effect on our business operations or financial results. We are dependent on our manufacturing facility and suppliers for certain of our cold remedy products Our manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center is located in Lebanon, Pennsylvania. In the event of a disruption of this facility, we would need to outsource to third parties, at least temporarily, our manufacturing, warehousing and distribution requirements. While such secondary sources have been identified for our products, if we are unable to find other sources or there were a delay in the ramp-up for the production and distribution operations for some of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Certain raw material active ingredients used in connection with the Cold-EEZE® products are purchased from a single unaffiliated supplier. Should the relationship terminate or the vendor become unable to supply material, we believe that current contingency plans would prevent such termination from materially affecting our operations, although there may be delays in production of our products until an acceptable replacement supplier is located. Our inability to find alternative sources for some of our manufacturing and raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In addition, the terms on which manufacturers and suppliers will make products and raw materials available to us could have a material effect on our success. The manufacturing of OTC products and dietary supplements is subject to applicable current good manufacturing practice (“cGMP”) regulations and FDA inspections. We believe we are in substantial compliance with material provisions of the applicable cGMP regulations. Contract manufacturers are also subject to these same requirements and we require such compliance in our contractual relationships with such manufacturers. However, we cannot assure that the FDA will agree with our determination of compliance. If the FDA disagrees, it could, upon inspection of our facility, issue a notice of violations, referred to as a form FDA-483, or issue a Warning Letter, or both. If the FDA concludes that there is an imminent public health threat or if we fail to take timely corrective actions to the satisfaction of the FDA, the agency can initiate legal actions, such as seizure and injunction, which could include a recall order or the entry of a consent decree, or both. In addition, we could be subject to monetary penalties and even criminal prosecution for egregious conduct. The FDA could initiate similar legal actions against the contract manufacturer if it concludes its facility is not in compliance, which would affect the availability of our products. While secondary sources have been identified for our products, our inability to find other sources or a delay in the ramp-up for the production and distribution operations for some of its products may have a material adverse effect on our operations. - 13 - We are uncertain as to whether we can protect our proprietary rights The strength of our patent position and proprietary formulations and compounds may be important to our long-term success. We currently own numerous U.S. and foreign patents in connection with potential products; however there can be no assurance that these patents and proprietary formulations and compounds will effectively protect our products from duplication by others. In addition, we may not be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce our rights under any of the patents. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third parties will not obtain access to or independently develop our technologies, know-how, ideas, concepts and documentation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we believe that current and future products do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, if any of our current or future products do infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may have to modify the products or obtain an additional license for the manufacture and/or sale of such products. We could also be prohibited from selling the infringing products. If we were found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, it is uncertain whether we would be able to take corrective actions in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and operations. Our existing products and potential new products expose us to potential product liability claims Our business results in exposure to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims, including claims for serious bodily injury or death caused by the sales of our existing products and the products which are being developed. These claims could lead to substantial damage awards. While we currently maintain product liability insurance, a successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect on the consumer demand for our products. We are involved in litigation matters and are a defendant in a stockholder derivative lawsuit filed by our former CEO We are, from time-to-time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, can be time-consuming and expensive to defend and can divert management's attention and resources. While management believes that we have adequate insurance coverage and, if applicable, accrued loss contingencies for all known matters, there is no assurance that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on us. A purported derivative lawsuit was filed against us, our officers and directors, as described under "Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings". We believe the lawsuit is without merit and we intend to engage in a vigorous defense of such litigation. If we are not successful in our defense of this litigation, we could be forced to make significant payments to or other settlements with our stockholders and their lawyers, and such payments or settlement arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Regardless of the outcome, the litigation could result in substantial costs and significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We also have certain obligations to indemnify our officers and directors and to advance expenses to such officers and directors. Although we have purchased liability insurance for our directors and officers, if our insurance carriers should deny coverage, or if the indemnification costs exceed the insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these indemnification costs directly, which could be substantial and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the cost of our liability insurance increases significantly, or if this insurance becomes unavailable, we may not be able to maintain or increase our levels of insurance coverage for our directors and officers, which could make it difficult to attract or retain qualified directors and officers. A competing brand to Cold-EEZE® owns an Option to Acquire 1,453,427 of our shares of Common Stock from our former CEO, Guy Quigley, and acquired by proxy the voting rights of such shares In May 2012, we received an expression of interest and a non-binding proposal to be acquired by Matrixx, a competitor of Cold-EEZE®. In September 2012, Matrixx purchased for $200,000 a three year option to acquire 1,453,427 shares of our Common Stock for $1.40 per share from Guy J. Quigley, our former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Matrixx also acquired from Mr. Quigley a voting proxy to vote the shares subject to the option. In October 2012, we received a revised non-binding proposal, on essentially the same terms as Matrixx's earlier offer, except that in the latest proposal Matrixx raised the proposed price by $0.20 per share. At a meeting held on October 24, 2012, our board of directors unanimously rejected the October 2012 Matrixx proposal after careful consideration and consultation with its advisors. On February 5, 2013, Matrixx informed us that it has withdrawn its unsolicited offer to acquire us. - 14 - Matrixx continues to hold its voting proxy and an option to purchase shares from Guy Quigley. The Matrixx option to purchase shares expires in September 2015. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of Matrixx could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. Accordingly, Matrixx’s ability to influence us through voting their shares may affect our other shareholders or the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Certain Officers, Directors and former executives and their families own a substantial amount of our Common Stock As of March 25, 2014, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 18.6% of our Common Stock and Mr. Guy J. Quigley, Mr. Quigley’s spouse and Matrixx beneficially owned, approximately 17.4% of our Common Stock. These individuals have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. Consequently, they exercise substantial influence over all major decisions including major corporate actions such as mergers and other business combinations transactions which could result in or prevent a change of control of the Company. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. Accordingly, a stockholder’s ability to influence us through voting their shares may be limited or the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to new compliance initiatives We have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from public company reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and regulations regarding corporate governance practices. The listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to director independence, distributing annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, approvals and voting, soliciting proxies, conflicts of interest and a code of conduct. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to all of these requirements. Moreover, the reporting requirements, rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These reporting requirements, rules and regulations, coupled with the increase in potential litigation exposure associated with being a public company, could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees or to serve as executive officers. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) and the related rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission require that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. During the course of our review and testing, we may identify deficiencies and be unable to remediate them before we must provide the required reports. We or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting, which could harm our operating results, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and cause the trading price of our stock to fall. Our compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley may require that we incur substantial expense and expend significant management time on compliance related issues. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock would likely decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Our stock price is volatile The market price of our Common Stock has experienced significant volatility. From January 1, 2013 to March 25, 2014, the trading prices of our stock have ranged from $1.40 to $2.98 per share. There are several factors which could affect the price of our Common Stock, including announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by us or our competitors, developments concerning propriety rights, new or revised governmental regulation or general conditions in the market for our products. Sales of a substantial number of shares by existing stockholders could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. - 15 - Future sales of shares of our Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of shares of the Common Stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our Common Stock. As of March 25, 2014, we had 16,660,324 shares of Common Stock outstanding. As of March 25, 2014, there are outstanding options, which are fully vested, to purchase an aggregate of 753,250 shares of our Common Stock at an average exercise price of $1.92 per share. If these options are exercised, and the holders of these options were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of our Common Stock would likely decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of this potential dilution could cause stockholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to “short” our stock, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of shares of Common Stock being offered for sale to increase, our Common Stock’s market price would likely further decline. All of these events could combine to make it very difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Our Common Stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our Common Stock Our Common Stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. If our Common Stock is delisted, it could reduce the price of our Common Stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the delisting of our Common Stock could materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets, and any limitation on liquidity or reduction in the price of our Common Stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market could also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline The trading market for our Common Stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, products or stock performance, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, the unpredictability of our financial results likely reduces the certainty, and therefore reliability, of the forecasts by securities or industry analysts of our future financial results, adding to the potential volatility of our stock price. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future We have not paid cash dividends on our Common Stock since our inception. Our intention is to retain earnings, if any, for use in the business and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to stockholders in the foreseeable future. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions that may be barriers to a takeover Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions which may deter, discourage, or make it difficult for another person or entity to gain control of the Company through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or similar transaction or series of transactions. These provisions may deter a future tender offer or other takeover attempt which could include a premium over the market price of our Common Stock at the time. Such provisions could depress the trading price of our Common Stock We have agreed to indemnify our Officers and Directors from liability In accordance with sections 78.7502 and 78.751 of the Nevada General Corporation Law our Articles of Incorporation provide that we will indemnify any person who is or was made a party to, or is or was threatened to be made a party to, any pending, completed, or threatened action, suit or proceeding because he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or is or was serving at the Company’s request as a director, officer, employee or agent of any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. These provisions permit us to advance expenses to an indemnified party in connection with defending any such proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by the indemnified party to repay those amounts if it is later determined that the party is not entitled to indemnification. In August 2009, we entered into indemnity agreements with each member of our board of directors and Mr. Cuddihy. These agreements provide, among other things, that we will indemnify each officer and director in the event they become a party or otherwise a participant in any action or proceeding on account of their service as a director or officer of the Company (or service for another corporation or entity in any capacity at the request of the Company) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. These indemnity provisions may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and officers and discourage or deter stockholders from suing directors or officers for breaches of their duties to the Company, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit the Company or its stockholders. In addition, to the extent that we expend funds to indemnify directors and officers, funds will be unavailable for operational purposes. - 16 - Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 