Item 1A. Risk Factors Any of the following risks could materially affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. These risks could also cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements contained herein and elsewhere. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to significant competitive pressures The OTC healthcare product, pharmaceutical and consumer product industries are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, technical staffs, facilities, marketing resources, product development, distribution and experience than we do. As a consequence, our competitors may have certain advantages, including the ability to allocate greater resources for new product development, marketing and other purposes. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including product quality and price, availability, speed to market, consumer marketing, reliability, credit terms, brand name recognition, delivery time and post-sale service and support, and new and existing product innovation and commercialization. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our earnings may be significantly negatively impacted. Certain of our investments and initiatives have been in the process of a strategic transformation as new management assesses the status of various product development initiatives. In connection with this assessment, we have determined to curtail investment in certain of Pharma’s products under development in light of our view concerning market opportunities, regulatory pathways, the need for further robust and consistent preclinical and clinical testing and continued requirements in the areas of commercial formulation and development. We have realigned our operations to focus principally in the research, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of OTC cold remedy and consumer products, natural base health products and other supplements and cosmeceuticals for human and veterinary use. In addition, we may seek to acquire from third parties or enter into other arrangements with respect to new formulations, ingredients, applications and other products developed by third parties who may be seeking our commercialization, marketing and distribution expertise. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectuate this new business plan successfully or that revenue growth will occur once the plan is effected. In addition, we may not be successful in acquiring or otherwise entering into any new lines of business and, if we are successful in doing so, there can be no assurance that such new business will achieve profitability. We will need to obtain additional capital to support long term product development and commercialization programs Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability depends in large part on our ability to commence, execute and complete new and existing product innovation and commercialization including, if required, clinical programs to obtain regulatory approvals in the United States and elsewhere. We can give no assurance that we will be able to achieve such product innovation and commercialization, to obtain any required approvals or to achieve significant levels of sales. Should research or commercialization activity progress on certain formulations, resulting expenditures may require substantial financial support. The current sales levels of Cold-EEZE® products may not generate all the funds we anticipate will be needed to support future product acquisition or development. Accordingly, in addition to funding from operations, we may in the short and long term seek to raise capital through the issuance of securities or to secure other financing sources to support our research, new product technologies, applications, licensing, commercialization and other development opportunities. If we obtain such funding through the issuance of equity securities, it would result in the dilution of current stockholders’ ownership in the Company. Any debt financing, if available, may include financial and other covenants that could restrict use of proceeds of such financing or impose other business and financial restrictions on us. In addition, we may consider alternative approaches such as, licensing, joint venture, or partnership arrangements that meet our long term goals and objectives. 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS The amount of capital that may be needed to complete product development initiatives will depend on many factors which may include but are not limited to (i) the cost involved in applying for and obtaining FDA and international regulatory approvals, (ii) whether we elect to establish partnering arrangements for development, sales, manufacturing and marketing of such products, (iii) the level of future sales of Cold-EEZE® products, and expense levels for marketing efforts, (iv) whether we can establish and maintain strategic arrangements for development, sales, manufacturing and marketing of our products, and (v) whether any or all of the options for our common stock, $0.0005 par value per share (the “Common Stock”) issued to former executives and employees of the Company are exercised and the timing and amount of these exercises. Instability and volatility in the financial markets could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows During Fiscal 2008 and 2009, there has been substantial volatility and a decline in financial markets due at least in part to the deteriorating global economic environment. In addition, there has been substantial uncertainty in the capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. Moreover, customer spending habits may be adversely affected by the current economic crisis. These conditions could have an adverse effect on our industry and business, including our access to funding sources, demand for our products and our customers’ ability to continue to purchase our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to issue equity or to incur indebtedness to finance our growth. Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the potential impact on the liquidity of major financial institutions may have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our business strategy through borrowings, under either existing or newly created instruments in the public or private markets on terms that we believe to be reasonable, or at all. The sales of our primary product fluctuates by season A significant portion of our business is highly seasonal, which causes major variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. The third and fourth quarters generally represent the largest sales volume for our OTC cold remedy products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our working capital needs and inventory to meet the fluctuating demand for these products. Failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand may result in the production of excess inventory which may be expensive to store or which we may be required to dispose if such excess inventory remains unsold. Conversely, if products achieve greater success than anticipated for any given quarter, this may result in insufficient inventory to meet customer demand. Our performance may fluctuate when our retail customers are affected simultaneously by the same economic, regulatory or health and wellness factors Our revenues are significantly concentrated in OTC cold remedy products. Our retail customers are subject to fluctuations of business based upon consumer purchasing trends, demand for cold remedy products and overall economic and market conditions. Consequently, many retailers will likely be influenced at the same time by similar economic conditions, regulatory factors or health and wellness trends, which can affect the level of demand for our products. It is reasonable to expect that, if one retailer reduces or delays its purchasing in response to a general economic, regulatory or health and wellness factor, other retailers may also decide to reduce or delay their purchasing at approximately the same time. Accordingly, our sales are subject to fluctuations as a result of such factors. We have a concentration of sales to and accounts receivable from several large retail customers Although we have a broad range of retail customers that includes many large wholesalers, mass merchandisers and multiple outlet pharmacy and food chains, our five largest customers account for a significant percentage of our sales — 56% and 48% of total sales for Fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, retail customers comprising the five largest accounts receivable balances represented 66% and 55% of total accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We extend credit to retail customers based upon an evaluation of their financial condition and credit history, and collateral is not generally required. If one or more of these large retail customers cannot pay, the write-off of their accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The loss of sales to any one or more of these large retail customers would also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our future success depends on the continued sales of our principal product For Fiscal 2009 and 2008, our cold remedy products, principally Cold-EEZE®, represented approximately 92% and 89%, respectively, of our total sales. Accordingly, we depend on the continued acceptance of Cold-EEZE® products by our customers. However, there can be no assurance that Cold-EEZE® products will continue to receive or maintain market acceptance. The inability to successfully commercialize Cold-EEZE® in the future, for any reason, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, prospects and ability to continue operations. Our products and potential new products are or may be subject to extensive governmental regulation Our business is regulated by various agencies of the states and localities where our products are sold. Governmental regulations in foreign countries where we plan to commence or expand sales may prevent or delay entry into a market or prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation of certain of our products. In addition, no prediction can be made as to whether new domestic or foreign legislation regulating our activities will be enacted. Any new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Non-compliance with any applicable requirements may subject us or the manufacturers of our products to agency action, including warning letters, fines, product recalls, seizures and injunctions. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our cold remedy products are subject to regulation by several federal agencies, including (i) the FDA, (ii) the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), (iii) the Consumer Product Safety Commission, (iv) the United States Department of Agriculture, (v) the United States Postal Service, (vi) the United States Environmental Protection Agency and (vii) the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration. In addition to OTC and prescription drug products, the FDA regulates the safety, manufacturing, labeling and distribution of dietary supplements, including vitamins, minerals and herbs, food additives, food supplements, over-the-counter and prescription drugs and cosmetics. The FTC also has overlapping jurisdiction with the FDA to regulate the promotion and advertising of vitamins, over-the-counter drugs, cosmetics and foods. In addition, our cold remedy products are homeopathic remedies which are subject to standards established by the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States (“HPUS”). HPUS sets the standards for source, composition and preparation of homeopathic remedies which are officially recognized under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act, as amended. Preclinical development, clinical trials, product manufacturing, labeling, distribution and marketing of potential new products are also subject to federal and state regulation in the United States and other countries. Clinical trials and product marketing and manufacturing are subject to the rigorous review and approval processes of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. To obtain approval of a new drug product, a company must demonstrate through adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that the drug product is safe and effective for its intended use. Obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive. Typically, obtaining regulatory approval for pharmaceutical products requires substantial resources and takes several years. The length of this process depends on the type, complexity and novelty of the product and the nature of the disease or other indication to be treated. Preclinical studies must comply with FDA regulations. Clinical trials must also comply with FDA regulations to ensure safety of the human subjects in the trial and may require large numbers of test subjects, complex protocols and possibly lengthy follow-up periods. Consequently, satisfaction of government regulations may take several years, may cause delays in introducing potential new products for considerable periods of time and may require imposing costly procedures upon our activities. If regulatory approval of new products is not obtained in a timely manner or not at all, we could be materially adversely affected. Even if regulatory approval of new products is obtained, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed which could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and future operations. We have a history of losses and limited working capital We have experienced net losses and declining sales for each of the past three fiscal years. As a consequence, and in connection with our strategic review of the Company, we determined to curtail investment in certain of Pharma’s existing products under development and have realigned our operations to focus principally in the research, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of OTC cold remedy and consumer products, natural base health products and other supplements and cosmeceuticals for human and veterinary use. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS There can be no assurance that this strategic realignment will provide any revenue growth or that we will be successful in initiating or acquiring any new lines of business, or that any such new lines of business will achieve profitability. Furthermore as part of our strategic realignment, we have implemented certain cost reduction programs that, in of themselves, may not be sufficient to return the Company to profitability. As of December 31, 2009, we had working capital of approximately $11.5 million. We may not be able to develop or successfully commercialize new products As a consequence of the current curtailment of investment in Pharma, we may not have the ability to research and develop prescription medications based on our existing patents and no assurances can be given that commercially viable products will be developed from these patents or our pending patent applications. Prior to any new product being available for sale, substantial resources will have to be committed to commercialize a product which may include research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval. We face significant technological risks inherent in developing these products. We may suspend or abandon some or all of our proposed new products before they become commercially viable. Even if we develop and obtain approval of a new product, if we cannot successfully commercialize it in a timely manner, our business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Our success is dependent on key personnel Our success depends, in part, upon the continued service of key personnel, such as Mr. Ted Karkus, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Robert V. Cuddihy, Jr., Chief Operating Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer, and certain managers and strategists within the Company. The loss of the services of any one of them could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to hire, train, motivate, retain and manage professional staff; transitions in management may affect our business We must hire, train, motivate, retain and manage highly skilled employees. Competition for skilled employees who can perform the services that we require is intense and hiring, training, motivating, retaining and managing employees with the skills required is time-consuming and expensive. If we are not be able to hire sufficient professional staff to support our operations, or to train, motivate, retain and manage the employees we do hire, it could have a material adverse effect on our business operations or financial results. In 2009, as a result of the successful Proxy Contest, our former Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Operating Officer resigned. Both these positions are now occupied by individuals, Mr. Karkus and Mr. Cuddihy, who are new to the Company. Additionally, in October, the employment of our then Chief Financial Officer ended and the duties of chief financial officer were assumed, on an interim basis, by Mr. Cuddihy. This change in management may cause some concern among vendors, customers, investors or stockholders during the period of time within which our new management becomes familiar with the administration of our business, completes its strategic assessment of the Company and implements our new business plan. We are dependent on our manufacturing facility and suppliers for certain of our cold remedy products Our manufacturing, warehousing and distribution center is located in Lebanon, Pennsylvania. In the event of a disruption of this facility, we would outsource, at least temporarily, to third parties our manufacturing, warehousing and distribution requirements. While such secondary sources have been identified for our products, if we are unable to find other sources or there were a delay in the ramp-up for the production and distribution operations for some of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Certain raw material active ingredients used in connection with the Cold-EEZE® product are purchased from a single unaffiliated supplier. Should the relationship terminate or the vendor become unable supply material, we believe that current contingency plans would prevent such termination from materially affecting our operations, although there may be delays in production of our products until an acceptable replacement supplier is located. We continue to look for safe and reliable multiple-location sources for products and raw materials so that we can continue to obtain products and raw materials in the event of a disruption in our business relationship with any single manufacturer or supplier. While secondary sources have been identified for some of our manufacturing and raw materials needs, our inability to find alternative sources for some of our manufacturing and raw materials 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In addition, the terms on which manufacturers and suppliers will make products and raw materials available to us could have a material effect on our success. The manufacturing of OTC products and dietary supplements is subject to applicable current good manufacturing practice regulations and FDA inspections. We believe we are in substantial compliance with material provisions of the applicable cGMP regulations. Contract manufacturers are also subject to these same requirements and we require such compliance in our contractual relationships with such manufacturers. However, we cannot assure that the FDA will agree with our determination of compliance. If the FDA disagrees, it could, upon inspection of our facility, issue a notice of violations, referred to as a form FDA-483, or issue a Warning Letter, or both. If the FDA concludes that there is an imminent public health threat or if we fail to take timely corrective actions to the satisfaction of the FDA, the agency can initiate legal actions, such as seizure and injunction, which could include a recall order or the entry of a consent decree, or both. In addition, we could be subject to monetary penalties and even criminal prosecution for egregious conduct. The FDA could initiate similar legal actions against the contract manufacturer if it concludes its facility is not in compliance, which would affect the availability our products. While secondary sources have been identified for our products, our inability to find other sources or a delay in the ramp-up for the production and distribution operations for some of its products may have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are uncertain as to whether we can protect our proprietary rights The strength of our patent position and proprietary formulations and compounds may be important to our long-term success. We currently own numerous U.S. and foreign patents in connection with potential products; however there can be no assurance that these patents and proprietary formulations and compounds will effectively protect our products from duplication by others. In addition, we may not be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce our rights under any of the patents. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third parties will not obtain access to or independently develop our technologies, know-how, ideas, concepts and documentation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Although we believe that current and future products do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, if any of our current or future products do infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may have to modify the products or obtain an additional license for the manufacture and/or sale of such products. We could also be prohibited from selling the infringing products. If we were found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, it is uncertain whether we would be able to take corrective actions in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and operations. Our existing products and potential new products expose us to potential product liability claims Our business results in exposure to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims, including claims for serious bodily injury or death caused by the sales of our existing products and the products which are being developed. These claims could lead to substantial damage awards. We currently maintain product liability insurance in the amount of, and with a maximum payout of, $25 million. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect on the consumer demand for its products. We are involved in litigation including claims relating to certain of our Cold-EEZE® products and other business matters We are, from time-to-time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, can be time-consuming and expensive to defend and can divert management’s attention and resources. While management believes that we have adequate insurance coverage and, if applicable, accrued loss contingencies for all known matters, there is no assurance that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on us. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Certain Officers, Directors and former executives and their families own a substantial amount of our Common Stock As of March 24, 2010, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 9.1% of our Common Stock and our former executives, Mr. Guy J. Quigley and Mr. Charles Phillips, and their immediate families beneficially owned, approximately 30.7% of our Common Stock. Mr. Quigley and Mr. Phillips also hold options granted under our 1997 Stock Option Plan to purchase an aggregate of 633,500 additional shares of our Common Stock at an average exercise price of $8.08 per share. These individuals have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. Consequently, they exercise substantial influence over all major decisions including major corporate actions such as mergers and other business combinations transactions which could result in or prevent a change of control of the Company. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of these shareholders could be in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. Accordingly, your ability to influence us through voting your shares may be limited or the market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected. Our stock price is volatile The market price of our Common Stock has experienced significant volatility. There are several factors which could affect the price of our Common Stock, including some of which are announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by us or our competitors, developments concerning propriety rights, new or revised governmental regulation or general conditions in the market for our products. Sales of a substantial number of shares by existing stockholders could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock. Future sales of shares of our Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of shares of the Common Stock and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our Common Stock. As of March 24, 2010, we had 14,484,387 shares of Common Stock outstanding. As of March 24, 2010 we also have outstanding options, which are fully vested, to purchase an aggregate of 1,487,750 shares of our Common Stock at an average exercise price of $8.64 per share. If these options are exercised, and the holders of these options were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of our Common Stock would likely decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of this potential dilution could cause stockholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to “short” our stock, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of shares of Common Stock being offered for sale to increase, our Common Stock’s market price would likely further decline. All of these events could combine to make it very difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future We have not paid cash dividends on our Common Stock since our inception. Our intention is to retain earnings, if any, for use in the business and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to stockholders in the foreseeable future. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions that may be barriers to a takeover Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions which may deter, discourage, or make it difficult for another person or entity to gain control of the through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or similar transaction or series of transactions. These provisions may deter a future tender offer or other takeover attempt. Some stockholders may believe such an offer to be in their best interest because it may include a premium over the market price of our Common Stock at the time. In addition, these provisions may assist current management in retaining its position and place it in a better position to resist changes which some stockholders may want to make if dissatisfied with the conduct of our business. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have agreed to indemnify our Officers and Directors from liability In accordance with sections 78.7502 and 78.751 of the Nevada General Corporation Law our Articles of Incorporation provide that we will indemnify any person who is or was made a party to, or is or was threatened to be made a party to, any pending, completed, or threatened action, suit or proceeding because he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or is or was serving at the Company’s request as a director, officer, employee or agent of any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. These provisions permit us to advance expenses to an indemnified party in connection with defending any such proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by the indemnified party to repay those amounts if it is later determined that the party is not entitled to indemnification. In August 2009, we entered into a standard form of indemnity agreement with each member of our Board of Directors, Mr. Karkus and Mr. Cuddihy. These agreements provide, among other things, that we will indemnify each director, Mr. Karkus and Mr. Cuddihy in the event they become a party or otherwise a participant in any action or proceeding on account of their service as a director or officer of the Company (or service for another corporation or entity in any capacity at the request of the Company) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. These indemnity provisions may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and officers and discourage or deter stockholders from suing directors or officers for breaches of their duties to the Company, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit the Company or its stockholders. In addition, to the extent that we expend funds to indemnify directors and officers, funds will be unavailable for operational purposes. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control environment for the period from April 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in a reasonable probability that a material misstatement of financial statements will not be prevented or detected by our internal controls. In relation to our Financial Statements for Fiscal 2009, in connection with its review of the Company’s internal control process over financial reporting, management identified as a consequence of certain events occurring during the second quarter of Fiscal 2009 the following material weaknesses in our internal control environment: (i)lack of management continuity due to changes in executive management and (ii) lack of documentation and/or the availability of documentation or records our files of business transactions, contracts and/or evaluations conducted by the Company. Additionally, during a portion of Fiscal 2009, we also identified and initiated remediation program to address our lack of sufficient subject matter expertise in at least two of the following significant areas: (a) accounting for and the disclosure of complex transactions and (b) the selection, monitoring and evaluation of certain vendors that provided services to Pharma. Following the identification of these material weaknesses, management took measures and plans to continue to take measures to remediate these weaknesses and deficiencies. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address these weaknesses. A failure to correct these weaknesses or other control deficiencies or a failure to discover and address any other control deficiencies could result in inaccuracies in our consolidated financial statements and could impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis or could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS 