Item 1A. Risk Factors Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “we,” “us,” “our” in this subsection “Risk Factors” refer to the Bancorp and its subsidiaries. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of future operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 29 We may be adversely affected by changes in economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. The thrift industry is affected, directly and indirectly, by local, domestic, and international economic and political conditions, and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, tight money supply, real estate values, international conflicts and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our potential profitability. Any future rises in interest rates, while increasing the income yield on our earning assets, may adversely affect loan demand and the cost of funds and, consequently, our profitability. Any future decreases in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability because such decreases may reduce the amounts that we may earn on our assets. Economic downturns have resul ted and may continue to result in the delinquency of outstanding loans. We do not expect any one particular factor to materially affect our results of operations. However, downtrends in several areas, including real estate, construction and consumer spending, have had and may continue to have a material adverse impact on our ability to remain profitable. Further, there can be no assurance that the asset values of the loans included in our loan portfolio, the value of properties and other collateral securing such loans, or the value of foreclosed real estate will remain at current levels. The changing economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company. In 2009 and in 2008, negative developments in the financial services industry have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general and a related general economic downturn globally, which have continued into 2010. In addition, as a consequence of the United States recession, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the decline in the housing market, lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. As a result of these financial economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land and residential building lots, multi-family, commercial and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly while the significant decline in economic growth has led to a slowdown in banking related activities. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal or informal enforcement actions or orders. The impact of new legislation in response to those developments may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. We are operating in a challenging economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local market conditions. Negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses and other factors, could have adverse effects on our borrowers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate properties are often dependent upon the successful operation of management of the properties, repayment of these loans are subject to adverse conditions in the economy. As consumer spending decreases, businesses located in commercial real estate property may close, reducing the rental income of the Bank’s borrower. The reduction in rental income may result in the borrower being unable to make payments on the loan. The deterioration in economic conditions could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and could result in the following: · an increase in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures; · a decline in demand for our products and services; · a decrease in low cost or non-interest-bearing deposits; and 30 · a decline in the value of the collateral for our loans, which in turn may reduce customers’ borrowing capacities, and reduce the value of assets and collateral supporting our existing loans. During the past year, we have experienced an increase in non-performing loans. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve in the near term or will not worsen. Moreover, such conditions may result in a further increase in loan delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income, and may continue to have an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, possibly requiring us to add to our allowance for loan losses. Until conditions improve, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The operations of financial institutions, such as ours, are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest that in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the policies of various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, our balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government bonds, corporate securities and other investment vehicles, including mutua l funds, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than those offered by financial institutions such as ours. We expect to experience continual competition for deposit accounts which may make it difficult to reduce the interest paid on some deposits. We believe that, in the current market environment, we have adequate policies and procedures for maintaining a conservative interest rate sensitive position. However, there is no assurance that this condition will continue. A sharp movement up or down in deposit rates, loan rates, investment fund rates and other interest-sensitive instruments on our balance sheet could have a significant, adverse impact on our net interest income and operating results. Most of our loans are secured by real estate located in our market area. If there is a continuing downturn in the real estate market, additional borrowers may default on their loans and we may not be able to fully recover our loans. A continuing downturn in the real estate market could adversely affect our business because most of our loans are secured by real estate. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in the states of Maryland, Virginia and Delaware. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature. In addition to the risks generally present with respect to mortgage lending activities, our operations are affected by other factors affecting our borrowers, including: · the ability of our mortgagors to make mortgage payments, · the ability of our borrowers to attract and retain buyers or tenants, which may in turn be affected by local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for rental space in the area, the attractiveness of properties to buyers and tenants, and competition from other available space, or by the ability of the owner to pay leasing commissions, provide adequate maintenance and insurance, pay tenant improvements costs and make other tenant concessions, · interest rate levels and the availability of credit to refinance loans at or prior to maturity, and · increased operating costs, including energy costs, real estate taxes and costs of compliance with environmental controls and regulations. 31 As of December 31, 2009, approximately 95% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans collateralized by various types of real estate. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans will be reduced. Our ability to recover defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to incur financial losses on defaulted loans. In addition, approximately 50% of the book value of our loans consisted of construction, land acquisition and development loans, commercial real estate loans and land loans, which present additional risks described in “Item 1. Business - Construction Loans” of this Form 10-K. Our loan portfolio exhibits a high degree of risk. We have a significant amount of nonresidential loans, as well as construction and land loans granted on a speculative basis. Although permanent single-family, owner-occupied loans represent the largest single component of assets and currently impaired loans, a significant level of nonresidential loans, construction loans, and land loans, results in an above-average risk exposure. Our monitoring of higher risk loans may be inadequate and the internal asset review function may be inadequate in view of current real estate market weaknesses. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, our nonperforming loans (those loans 90 or more days in arrears) equaled $60.8 million and $54.8 million, respectively. There were 121 residential loans in non-accrual status totaling $55.5 million and eleven commercial loans in non-accrual status totaling $5.3 million at December 31, 2009 compared to 118 residential loans in non-accrual status totaling $51.7 million and eleven commercial loans in non-accrual status totaling $3.1 million at December 31, 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2009, there were $11.6 million of loan charge-offs. At December 31, 2009, the total allowance for loan losses was $34.7 million, which was 4.24% of total net loans, compared with $14.8 million, which was 1.65% of total net loans, as of December 31, 2008. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations are located in Anne Arundel County, Maryland, which makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions. An economic downturn or recession in this area may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Unlike larger banking organizations that are geographically diversified, our operations are concentrated in Anne Arundel County, Maryland. In addition, nearly all of our loans have been made to borrowers in the states of Maryland, Virginia and Delaware. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in our market area. A deterioration or recession in economic conditions in this market could result in one or more of the following: · a decrease in deposits; · an increase in loan delinquencies; · an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; · a decrease in the demand for our products and services; and 32 · a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, and reduction in customers’ borrowing capacities. Any of the foregoing factors may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Failure to comply with recent OTS Supervisory Agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. On November 23, 2009, we and the Bank each entered into a supervisory agreement with the OTS, which agreements primarily addressed issues identified in the OTS’ reports of examination of our and the Bank’s operations and financial condition conducted in 2009. Although we and the Bank each intend to take such actions as may be necessary to enable us to comply with our respective requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply fully with the provisions of the Supervisory Agreements, or to do so within the timeframes required. Moreover, there can be no assurance that compliance with such requirements will not be more time consuming or more expensive than anticipated, or that efforts to comply with such requirements will not have adverse effects on the operations and financial conditio n of us or the Bank. Failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreements, or other supervisory directives, could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties, orders to cease and desist or other regulatory or enforcement actions. Accordingly, any material failure to comply with the Supervisory Agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to federal and state regulation and the monetary policies of the FRB. Such regulation and policies can have a material adverse effect on our earnings and prospects. Our operations are heavily regulated and will be affected by present and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. In particular, the monetary policies of the FRB have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past, and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the FRB to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary polices of the FRB or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earni ngs prospects. If the Bank becomes “undercapitalized” as determined under the “prompt corrective action” initiatives of the federal bank regulators, such regulatory authorities will have the authority to require the Bank to, among other things, alter, reduce or terminate any activity that the regulator determines poses an excessive risk to the Bank. The Bank could further be directed to take any other action that the regulatory agency determines will better carry out the purpose of prompt corrective action. The Bank could be subject to these prompt corrective action restrictions if federal regulators determine that the Bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. Some or all of the foregoing actions and restrictions could have a material adverse eff ect on our operations. We have established an allowance for loan losses based on our management's estimates. Actual losses could differ significantly from those estimates. If the allowance is not adequate, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and the price of our common stock. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management's best estimate of probable incurred losses within the existing portfolio of loans. The allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the allowance reflects management's continuing evaluation of specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; industry concentrations and other unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of sub jectivity and judgment and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Increases in nonperforming loans have a significant impact on our allowance for loan losses. Generally, our non-performing loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the economy of our market area. If current trends in the real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses, particularly with respect to construction, land and residential building lots, multi-family, commercial and consumer loans. Moreover, with the country currently in a recession, we expect that it will negatively impact economic conditions in our market areas and that we could experience significantly higher delinquencies and credit losses. 33 In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Furthermore, growth in the loan portfolio would generally lead to an increase in the provision for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We compete with a number of local, regional and national financial institutions for customers. We face strong competition from savings and loan associations, banks, and other financial institutions that have branch offices or otherwise operate in our market area, as well as many other companies now offering a range of financial services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and larger branch systems than us. In addition, many of our competitors have higher legal lending limits than us. Particularly intense competition exists for sources of funds including savings and retail time deposits as well as for loans and other services offered by us. In addition, over the last several years, the banking industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and this trend is expected to continue. Significant ongoing consolidation in the banking industry m ay result in one or more large competitors emerging in our primary target market. The financial resources, human capital and expertise of one or more large institutions could threaten our ability to maintain our competitiveness. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and mutual funds, have been permitted to engage in activities that compete directly with traditional bank business. Competition with various financial institutions could hinder our ability to maintain profitable operations and grow our business. We face intense competitive pressure on customer pricing, which may materially and adversely affect revenues and profitability. We generate net interest income, and charge our customers fees, based on prevailing market conditions for deposits, loans and other financial services. In order to increase deposit, loan and other service volumes, enter new market segments and expand our base of customers and the size of individual relationships, we must provide competitive pricing for such products and services. In order to stay competitive, we have had to intensify our efforts around attractively pricing our products and services. To the extent that we must continue to adjust our pricing to stay competitive, we will need to grow our volumes and balances in order to offset the effects of declining net interest income and fee-based margins. Increased pricing pressure also enhances the importance of cost containment and productivi ty initiatives, and we may not succeed in these efforts. Our brand, reputation and relationship with our customers are key assets of our business and may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. Our brand and its attributes are key assets of our business. The ability to attract and retain customers to our Company’s products and services is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of us and the industry in which we operate. Our business may be affected by actions taken by competitors, customers, third party providers, employees, regulators, suppliers or others that impact the perception of the brand, such as creditor practices that may be viewed as “predatory,” customer service quality issues, and employee relations issues. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, impair our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny. 34 If our information systems or those of our third party providers experience an interruption or breach in security, our revenues and operating results and the perception of our brand could be materially and adversely affected. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. In addition, we operate a number of money transfer and related electronic, check and other payment connections that are vulnerable to individuals engaging in fraudulent activities that seek to compromise payments and related financial systems illegally. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do oc cur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third-party providers for many of our systems and if these providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. We continually encounter technological change, and, if we are unable to develop and implement efficient and customer friendly technology, we could lose business. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to achieve additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and s ervices to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our senior management team, and if we are not able to retain our senior management team, it could have a material adverse effect on us. We are highly dependent upon the continued services and experience of our senior management team, including Alan J. Hyatt, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. We depend on the services of Mr. Hyatt and the other members of our senior management team to, among other things, continue the development and implementation of our strategies, and maintain and develop our customer relationships. We do not have an employment agreement with members of our senior management, nor do we maintain “key-man” life insurance on our senior management. If we are unable to retain Mr. Hyatt and other members of our senior management team, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a result, current and potential stockholders may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. 35 Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, referred to as Section 404, we are required to include in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting. While we have reported no “material weaknesses” in the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any “material weaknesses” in the future. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expensive and time-consuming. If, in the future, we fail to complete this evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporti ng. In addition, any failure to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential stockholders and customers to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which could adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may impact all aspects of our operations, revenues, costs and stock price in unpredictable ways. Terrorist attacks in the United States and abroad, as well as future events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including, without limitation, future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies or military or trade disruptions, may impact our operations. Any of these events could cause consumer confidence and savings to decrease or could result in increased volatility in the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. Any of these occurrences could have an adverse impact on our operating results, revenues and costs and may result in the volatility of the market price for our common stock and on the future price of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will pay dividends in the future. The supervisory agreements with the OTS require, among other things, that Bancorp and the Bank obtain prior OTS approval before any dividends or capital distributions can be made and that Bancorp obtain prior OTS approval before purchasing or redeeming shares of its stock. In addition, Bancorp suspended its common stock dividend in the fourth quarter of 2009 due to losses incurred. Although we expect to be able to resume our policy of quarterly dividend payments, this dividend policy will be reviewed in light of future earnings, OTS restrictions and other considerations. No assurance can be given, therefore, that cash dividends on our common stock will be paid in the future. Our Series A preferred stock, Series B preferred stock and 2035 Debentures contain restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends on, or repurchase, our common stock. Our ability to declare dividends on our common stock is limited by the terms of our Series A preferred stock and Series B preferred stock. We may not declare or pay any dividend on, make any distributions relating to, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment relating to, or make any guarantee payment with respect to our common stock in any quarter until the dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock has been declared and paid for such quarter, subject to certain minor exceptions. Additionally, prior to November 21, 2011, unless we have redeemed the Series B preferred stock or the Treasury Department has transferred the Series B preferred stock to a third party, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury (1) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on our common stock (other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.06 per share) or (2) redeem, purchase or acquire any shares of our common stock or other equity or capital securities, other than in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice and certain other circumstances specified in the Letter Agreement with the Treasury Department. Additionally, under the terms of our 2035 Debentures, if (i) there has occurred and is continuing an event of default, (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under the related guarantee or (iii) we have given notice of our election to defer payments of interest on the 2035 Debentures by extending the interest distribution period as provided in the indenture governing the 2035 Debentures and such period, or any extension thereof, has commenced and is continuing, then we may not, among other things, declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of our capital stock, including our common stock. 36 An investment in our securities is not insured against loss. Investments in our common stock, are not deposits insured against loss by the FDIC or any other entity. As a result, an investor may lose some or all of his, her or its investment. Conversion of our Series A preferred stock or exercise of the warrant issued to the Treasury Department will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. In private placements conducted in November 2008, we issued Series A preferred stock convertible into 437,500 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment, and a warrant to purchase 556,976 shares of our common stock, subject to adjustment. The conversion of some or all of the Series A preferred stock or the exercise of the warrant will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion or exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Series A preferred stock or warrant may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Series A preferred stock or exercise of the warrant could depress the price of our common stock. “Anti-takeover” provisions will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our equity holders. Our charter presently contains certain provisions that may be deemed to be “anti-takeover” and “anti-greenmail” in nature in that such provisions may deter, discourage or make more difficult the assumption of control of us by another corporation or person through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or similar transaction or series of transactions. For example, currently, our charter provides that our Board of Directors may amend the charter, without stockholder approval, to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our stock or the number of shares of any class that we have authority to issue. In addition, our charter provides for a classified Board, with each Board member serving a staggered three-year term. Directors may be removed only for ca use and only with the approval of the holders of at least 75 percent of our common stock. The overall effects of the “anti-takeover” and “anti-greenmail” provisions may be to discourage, make more costly or more difficult, or prevent a future takeover offer, prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their securities in a takeover offer, and enhance the possibility that a future bidder for control of us will be required to act through arms-length negotiation with our Board of Directors. These provisions may also have the effect of perpetuating incumbent management. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 