ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND LIMITED WORKING CAPITAL AND WE EXPECT TO INCREASE OUR SPENDING. We have experienced net losses for three of our past seven fiscal years. Although we earned net income of approximately $3,217,000, $453,000 and $675,000, respectively, in our most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and 2003, we incurred net losses of $6,454,000, $5,196,000 and $4,204,000, respectively, in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2002, December 31, 2000 and December 31, 1999. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, we earned net income of $216,000, but that amount included net settled litigation payments paid to us of approximately $700,000 related to licensing fees. As of December 31, 2005, we had working capital of approximately $20,682,000. Since we continue to increase our spending on research and development in connection with Pharma's product development, we are uncertain whether we will generate sufficient revenues to meet expenses or to operate profitably in the future. WE HOLD PATENTS WHICH WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DEVELOP INTO PHARMACEUTICAL MEDICATIONS. Our success depends in part on Pharma's ability to research and develop prescription medications based on our patents which are: o A Patent (No. 6,555,573 B2) entitled "Method and Composition for the Topical Treatment of Diabetic Neuropathy." The patent extends through March 27, 2021. o A Patent (No. 6,592,896 B2) entitled "Medicinal Composition and Method of Using It" (for Treatment of Sialorrhea and other Disorders) for a product to relieve Sialorrhea (drooling) in patients suffering from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), otherwise known as Lou Gehrig's Disease. The patent extends through August 6, 2021. o A Patent (No. 6,596,313 B2) entitled "Nutritional Supplement and Method of Using It" for a product to relieve Sialorrhea (drooling) in patients suffering from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), otherwise known as Lou Gehrig's Disease. The patent extends through April 15, 2022. o A Patent (No. 6,753,325 B2) entitled "Composition and Method for Prevention, Reduction and Treatment of Radiation Dermatitis," a composition for the preventing, reducing or treating radiation dermatitis. The patent extends through November 5, 2021. o A Patent (No. 6,827,945 B2) entitled "Nutritional Supplement & Methods of Using Same" for a naturally derived compound developed for the treatment of arthritis and related inflammatory disorders. The patent extends through August 22, 2023. -9- These potential new products are in the development stage and we cannot give any assurances that we can develop commercially viable products from these patent applications. Prior to any new product being ready for sale, we will have to commit substantial resources for research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval. We face significant technological risks inherent in developing these products. We may abandon some or all of our proposed new products before they become commercially viable. Even if we develop and obtain approval of a new product, if we cannot successfully commercialize it in a timely manner, our business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. WE WILL NEED TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO SUPPORT LONG-TERM PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION PROGRAMS. Our ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability depends in large part on our ability to commence, execute and complete clinical programs for, and obtain additional regulatory approvals for, prescription medications developed by Pharma, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. We cannot assure you that we will ever obtain such approvals or achieve significant levels of sales. Our current sales levels of Cold-Eeze(R) products and health and wellness products may not generate all the funds we anticipate will be needed to support our current plans for product development. We may need to obtain additional financing to support our long-term product development and commercialization programs. We may seek additional funds through public and private stock offerings, arrangements with corporate partners, borrowings under lines of credit or other sources. The amount of capital we may need to complete product development of Pharma's products will depend on many factors, including; o the cost involved in applying for and obtaining FDA and international regulatory approvals; o whether we elect to establish partnering arrangements for development, sales, manufacturing and marketing of such products; o the level of future sales of our Cold-Eeze(R) and health and wellness products, expense levels for our international sales and marketing efforts; o whether we can establish and maintain strategic arrangements for development, sales, manufacturing and marketing of our products; and o whether any or all of our outstanding options and warrants are exercised and the timing and amount of these exercises. Many of the foregoing factors are not within our control. If we need to raise additional funds and such funds are not available on reasonable terms, we may have to reduce our capital expenditures, scale back our development of new products, reduce our workforce and out-license to others products or technologies that we otherwise would seek to commercialize ourselves. Any additional equity financing will be dilutive to stockholders, and any debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants. OUR CURRENT PRODUCTS AND POTENTIAL NEW PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION. Our business is regulated by various agencies of the states and localities where our products are sold. Governmental regulations in foreign countries where we plan to commence or expand sales may prevent or delay entry into a market or prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of certain of our products. In addition, we cannot predict whether new domestic or foreign legislation regulating our activities will be enacted. Any new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Non-compliance with any applicable requirements may subject us or the manufacturers of our products to sanctions, including warning letters, fines, product recalls and seizures. COLD REMEDY AND HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRODUCTS. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of our cold remedy and health and wellness products are subject to regulation by several federal agencies, including: o the FDA; o the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"); -10- o the Consumer Product Safety Commission; o the United States Department of Agriculture; o the United States Postal Service; o the United States Environmental Protection Agency; and o the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. In particular, the FDA regulates the safety, labeling and distribution of dietary supplements, including vitamins, minerals and herbs, food additives, food supplements, over-the-counter and prescription drugs and cosmetics. The FTC also has overlapping jurisdiction with the FDA to regulate the promotion and advertising of vitamins, over-the-counter drugs, cosmetics and foods. In addition, our cold remedy products are homeopathic remedies which are regulated by the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States ("HPUS"). HPUS sets the standards for source, composition and preparation of homeopathic remedies which are officially recognized in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act of 1938. PHARMA. The preclinical development, clinical trials, product manufacturing and marketing of Pharma's potential new products are subject to federal and state regulation in the United States and other countries. Clinical trials and product marketing and manufacturing are subject to the rigorous review and approval processes of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive. Typically, obtaining regulatory approval for pharmaceutical products requires substantial resources and takes several years. The length of this process depends on the type, complexity and novelty of the product and the nature of the disease or other indication to be treated. Preclinical studies must comply with FDA regulations. Clinical trials must also comply with FDA regulations and may require large numbers of test subjects, complex protocols and possibly lengthy follow-up periods. Consequently, satisfaction of government regulations may take several years, may cause delays in introducing potential new products for considerable periods of time and may require imposing costly procedures upon our activities. If we cannot obtain regulatory approval of new products in a timely manner or at all we could be materially adversely affected. Even if we obtain regulatory approval of new products, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed which could also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and future operations. OUR BUSINESS IS VERY COMPETITIVE AND INCREASED COMPETITION COULD HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON OUR EARNINGS. Both the non-prescription healthcare product and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience than we do. These and other entities may have or may develop new technologies. These technologies may be used to develop products that compete with ours. We believe that our primary cold remedy product, Cold-Eeze(R), has a competitive advantage over other cold remedy products because it has been clinically proven to reduce the severity and duration of common cold symptoms. We believe Darius has an advantage over its competitors because it directly sells its proprietary health and wellness products through its extensive network of independent distributors. Competition in Pharma's expected product areas would most likely come from large pharmaceutical companies as well as other companies, universities and research institutions, many of which have resources far in excess of our resources. The Company believes that its ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including price, product quality, availability, reliability and name recognition of its cold remedy, health and wellness products and Pharma's ability to successfully develop and market prescription medications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. If we are unable to compete, our earnings may be significantly impacted. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE CONTINUED SERVICES OF KEY PERSONNEL INCLUDING OUR CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key personnel. In particular, the loss of the services of Guy J. Quigley, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Quigley which expired on December 31, 2005. Our future success and growth also depends on our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. If we are unable to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. -11- OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT OF RICHARD A. ROSENBLOOM, M.D., PH.D., WITH PHARMA. Pharma's potential new products are being developed through the efforts of Dr. Rosenbloom. The loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on our product development and future operations. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE CONTINUED ACCEPTANCE OF THE DIRECT SELLING PHILOSOPHY, THE MAINTENANCE OF OUR NETWORK OF EXISTING INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTOR REPRESENTATIVES AND THE RECRUITMENT OF ADDITIONAL SUCCESSFUL INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTOR REPRESENTATIVES. Darius markets and sells herbal vitamins and dietary supplements for the human condition through its network of independent distributor representatives. Its products are sold to independent distributor representatives who either use the products for their own personal consumption or resell them to consumers. The independent distributor representatives receive compensation for sales achieved by means of a commission structure or compensation plan on certain product sales of certain personnel within their downstream independent distributor representative network. Since the independent distributor representatives are not employees of Darius, they are under no obligation to continue buying and selling Darius' products and the loss of key high-level distributors could negatively impact our future growth and profitability. OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE CONTINUED SALES OF OUR PRINCIPAL PRODUCT. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, our Cold-Eeze(R) products represented approximately 55% of our total sales. While we have diversified into health and wellness products, our line of Cold-Eeze(R) products continues to be a major part of our business. Accordingly, we have to depend on the continued acceptance of Cold-Eeze(R) products by our customers. However, there can be no assurance that our Cold-Eeze(R) products will continue to receive market acceptance. The inability to successfully commercialize Cold-Eeze(R) in the future, for any reason, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, prospects and ability to continue operations. WE HAVE A CONCENTRATION OF SALES TO AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM SEVERAL LARGE CUSTOMERS. Although we have a broad range of customers that includes many large wholesalers, mass merchandisers and multiple outlet pharmacy chains, our five largest customers account for a significant percentage of our sales. These five customers accounted for 29% of total sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and 29% of total sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. In addition, customers comprising the five largest accounts receivable balances represented 47% and 48% of total accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We extend credit to our customers based upon an evaluation of their financial condition and credit history, and we do not generally require collateral. If one or more of these large customers cannot pay us, the write-off of their accounts receivable would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The loss of sales to any one or more of these large customers would also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON THIRD-PARTY MANUFACTURERS AND SUPPLIERS FOR OUR HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRODUCTS AND THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS FOR CERTAIN OF OUR COLD REMEDY PRODUCTS. We do not manufacture any of our Health and Wellness products, nor do we manufacture any of the ingredients in these products. In addition, we purchase all active ingredients that are raw materials used in connection with our Cold-Eeze(R) product from a single unaffiliated supplier. Should any of these relationships terminate, we believe that the contingency plans which we have formulated would prevent a termination from materially affecting our operations. However, if any of these relationship is terminated, there may be delays in production of our products until an acceptable replacement facility is located. We continue to look for safe and reliable multiple-location sources for products and raw materials so that we can continue to obtain products and raw materials in the event of a disruption in our business relationship with any single manufacturer or supplier. While we have identified secondary sources for some of our products and raw materials, our inability to find other sources for some of our other products and raw materials may have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, the terms on which manufacturers and suppliers will make products and raw materials available to us could have a material effect on our success. WE ARE UNCERTAIN AS TO WHETHER WE CAN PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. The strength of our patent position may be important to our long-term success. We currently own five patents in connection with products that are being developed by Pharma. In addition, we have been granted an exclusive agreement for worldwide representation, manufacturing, marketing and distribution rights to a zinc/gluconate/glycine lozenge formulation. That formulation has been patented in the United States, Germany, France, Italy, Sweden, Canada and Great -12- Britain and a patent is pending in Japan. However, this patent in the United States expired in August 2004 and expired in June 2005 in all countries except Japan. There can be no assurance that these patents and our exclusive license will effectively protect our products from duplication by others. In addition, we may not be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce our rights under any of our patents. Although we believe that our current and future products do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, if any of our current or future products do infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, we may have to modify our products or obtain an additional license for the manufacture and/or sale of such products. We could also be prohibited from selling the infringing products. If we are found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we are uncertain whether we will be able to take corrective actions in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and operations. We also use non-disclosure agreements with our employees, suppliers, consultants and customers to establish and protect the ideas, concepts and documentation of our confidential non-patented and non-copyright protected proprietary technology and know-how. However, these methods may not afford complete protection. There can be no assurance that third parties will not obtain access to or independently develop our technologies, know-how, ideas, concepts and documentation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. THE SALES OF OUR PRIMARY PRODUCT FLUCTUATES BY SEASON. A significant portion of our business is highly seasonal, which causes major variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. The third and fourth quarters generally represent the largest sales volume for our cold remedy products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our working capital needs and our inventory to meet the fluctuating demand for our products. Failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand may cause us to produce excess inventory. Conversely, if products achieve greater success than anticipated for any given quarter, we may not have sufficient inventory to meet customer demand. OUR EXISTING PRODUCTS AND OUR NEW PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT EXPOSE US TO POTENTIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims, including claims for serious bodily injury or death caused by the sales of our existing products and the clinical trials of our products which are being developed. These claims could lead to substantial damage awards. We currently maintain product liability insurance in the amount of, and with a maximum payout of, $15 million. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect on the consumer demand for our products. WE ARE INVOLVED IN LAWSUITS REGARDING CLAIMS RELATING TO CERTAIN OF OUR COLD-EEZE(R) PRODUCTS. We are, from time to time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, including those contained in Item 3 of this report, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. While management believes we have adequate insurance coverage and, if applicable, accrued loss contingencies for all known matters, we cannot assure that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on us. A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF OUR OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK IS OWNED BY OUR CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND PRESIDENT AND OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS AS A GROUP CAN SIGNIFICANTLY INFLUENCE ALL MATTERS VOTED ON BY OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Guy J. Quigley, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, through his beneficial ownership, has the power to vote approximately 33.2% of our common stock. Mr. Quigley and our other executive officers and directors collectively beneficially own approximately 48.7% of our common stock. These individuals have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including election of directors. Consequently, they exercise substantial control over all of our major decisions which could prevent a change of control of us. -13- OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility. From January 1, 2002 to March 10, 2006, our per share bid price has ranged from a low of approximately $2.03 to a high of approximately $16.94. There are several factors which could affect the price of our common stock, some of which are announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by us or our competitors, developments concerning propriety rights, new or revised governmental regulation or general conditions in the market for our products. Sales of a substantial number of shares by existing stockholders could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. FUTURE SALES OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE PUBLIC MARKET COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE FUNDS IN NEW STOCK OFFERINGS. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and, as a result, the value of the notes. As of March 10, 2006, we had 11,678,478 shares of common stock outstanding. We also have outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 3,068,750 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $7.58 per share and outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,555,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $4.76 per warrant. If the holders of these shares, options or warrants were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of this potential dilution could cause stockholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to "short" the stock, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of shares of our common stock being offered for sale to increase, the common stock's market price would likely further decline. All of these events could combine to make it very difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We currently intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to our stockholders in the foreseeable future. OUR ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS CONTAIN CERTAIN PROVISIONS THAT MAY BE BARRIERS TO A TAKEOVER. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions which may deter, discourage, or make it difficult to assume control of us by another corporation or person through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or similar transaction or series of transactions. These provisions may deter a future tender offer or other takeover attempt. Some stockholders may believe such an offer to be in their best interest because it may include a premium over the market price of our common stock at the time. In addition, these provisions may assist our current management in retaining its position and place it in a better position to resist changes which some stockholders may want to make if dissatisfied with the conduct of our business. WE HAVE AGREED TO INDEMNIFY OUR OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS FROM LIABILITY. Sections 78.7502 and 78.751 of the Nevada General Corporation Law allow us to indemnify any person who is or was made a party to, or is or was threatened to be made a party to, any pending, completed, or threatened action, suit or proceeding because he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of ours or is or was serving at our request as a director, officer, employee or agent of any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. These provisions permit us to advance expenses to an indemnified party in connection with defending any such proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by the indemnified party to repay those amounts if it is later determined that the party is not entitled to indemnification. These provisions may also reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and officers and discourage or deter stockholders from suing directors or officers for breaches of their duties to us, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our stockholders. In addition, to the extent that we expend funds to indemnify directors and officers, funds will be unavailable for operational purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable -14- 