ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THE COMPANY HAS A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND LIMITED WORKING CAPITAL AND EXPECTS TO INCREASE SPENDING. The Company has experienced net losses for three of the past seven fiscal years. Although the Company earned net income of approximately $3,217,000, $453,000 and $675,000, respectively, in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, December 31, 2004 and 2003, it incurred net losses of $1,748,000, $6,454,000, and $5,196,000, respectively, in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, December 31, 2002, December 31, 2000. In the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, the Company earned net income of $216,000, but that amount included net settled litigation payments received of approximately $700,000 related to licensing fees. As of December 31, 2006, The Company had working capital of approximately $20,541,000. Since the Company continues to increase its spending on research and development in connection with Pharma's product development, it is uncertain whether the Company will generate sufficient revenues to meet expenses or to operate profitably in the future. -11- THE COMPANY HOLDS PATENTS WHICH IT MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DEVELOP INTO PHARMACEUTICAL MEDICATIONS. Future success depends in part on Pharma's ability to research and develop prescription medications based on patents, which currently are: o A Patent (No. 6,555,573 B2) entitled "Method and Composition for the Topical Treatment of Diabetic Neuropathy." The patent extends through March 27, 2021. o A Patent (No. 6,592,896 B2) entitled "Medicinal Composition and Method of Using It" (for Treatment of Sialorrhea and other Disorders) for a product to relieve sialorrhea (drooling) in patients suffering from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), otherwise known as Lou Gehrig's Disease. The patent extends through August 5, 2021. o A Patent (No. 6,596,313 B2) entitled "Nutritional Supplement and Method of Using It" for a product to relieve sialorrhea (drooling) in patients suffering from Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), otherwise known as Lou Gehrig's Disease. The patent extends through April 14, 2022. o A Patent (No. 6,753,325 B2) entitled "Composition and Method for Prevention, Reduction and Treatment of Radiation Dermatitis," a composition for preventing, reducing or treating radiation dermatitis. The patent extends through November 5, 2021. o A Patent (No. 6,827,945 B2) entitled "Nutritional Supplements and Method of Using Same" for a method for treating at least one symptom of arthritis. The patent extends through April 22, 2023. o A Patent (No. 7,083,813 B2) entitled "Methods for The Treatment of Peripheral Neural and Vascular Ailments." The patent extends through August 4, 2023. o A Patent (No. 7,166,435 B2) entitled "Compositions and Methods for Reducing the Tranmissivity of Illnesses." This patent will provide additional protection to an existing composition patent (number 6,592,896), which the Company received in July 2003 and will support on-going investigations and potential commercialization opportunities. The Company will be continuing its studies to test the effects of the referenced compound against avian flu and human influenza. The patent extends through November 5, 2021. o A Patent (No. 7,175,987 B2) entitled "Compositions and Methods for The Treatment of Herpes." The patent extends through November 5, 2021. o A Mexican Patent (No. 236311) entitled "Method and Composition for the Treatment of Diabetic Neuropathy." The patent extends through December 18, 2020. o A New Zealand Patent (No. 533439) entitled "Methods for The Treatment of Peripheral Neural and Vascular Ailments." The patent extends through November 6, 2022. o A New Zealand Patent (No. 526041) entitled "Method and Composition for the Treatment of Diabetic Neuropathy." The patent extends through December 18, 2021. o An Australian Patent (No. 2002231095) entitled "Method and Composition for the Treatment of Diabetic Neuropathy." The patent extends through December 18, 2021. o A South African Patent (No. 2003/4247) entitled "Methods and Composition for the Treatment of Diabetic Neuropathy." The patent extends through December 18, 2021. o A South African Patent (No. 2003/9802) entitled "Nutritional Supplements and Methods of Using Same" for a method for treating at least one symptom of arthritis. The patent extends through August 5, 2022. o A South African Patent (No. 2004/4614) entitled "Methods for The Treatment of Peripheral Neural and Vascular Ailments." The patent extends through November 5, 2022. o A South African Patent (No. 2005/0517) entitled "Anti-Microbial Compositions & Methods for Using Same," the patent extends through July 23, 2023. -12- o A South African Patent (No. 2004/3365) "Topical Compositions and Methods for Treatment of Adverse Effects of Ionizing Radiation," the patent extends through November 5, 2022. o An Israeli Patent (No. 159357) entitled "Nutritional Supplements and Methods of Using Same," the patent extends through August 6, 2022. These potential new products are in the development stage and no assurances can be given that commercially viable products will be developed from these patent applications. Prior to any new product being ready for sale, substantial resources will have to be committed for research, development, preclinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing scale-up and regulatory approval. The Company faces significant technological risks inherent in developing these products. The Company may abandon some or all of the proposed new products before they become commercially viable. Even if the Company develops and obtains approval of a new product, if the Company cannot successfully commercialize it in a timely manner, its business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. THE COMPANY WILL NEED TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL CAPITAL TO SUPPORT LONG-TERM PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION PROGRAMS. The Company's ability to achieve and sustain operating profitability depends in large part on the ability to commence, execute and complete clinical programs for, and obtain additional regulatory approvals for, prescription medications developed by Pharma, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. There is no assurance that the Company will ever obtain such approvals or achieve significant levels of sales. The current sales levels of Cold-Eeze(R) products and health and wellness products may not generate all the funds the Company anticipates will be needed to support current plans for product development. The Company may need to obtain additional financing to support its long-term product development and commercialization programs. Additional funds may be sought through public and private stock offerings, arrangements with corporate partners, borrowings under lines of credit or other sources. The amount of capital that may be needed to complete product development of Pharma's products will depend on many factors, including; o the cost involved in applying for and obtaining FDA and international regulatory approvals; o whether the Company elects to establish partnering arrangements for development, sales, manufacturing and marketing of such products; o the level of future sales of Cold-Eeze(R) and health and wellness products, and expense levels for international sales and marketing efforts; o whether the Company can establish and maintain strategic arrangements for development, sales, manufacturing and marketing of its products; and o whether any or all of the outstanding options and warrants are exercised and the timing and amount of these exercises. Many of the foregoing factors are not within the Company's control. If additional funds are required and such funds are not available on reasonable terms, the Company may have to reduce its capital expenditures, scale back its development of new products, reduce its workforce and out-license to others products or technologies that the Company otherwise would seek to commercialize itself. Any additional equity financing will be dilutive to stockholders, and any debt financing, if available, may include restrictive covenants. THE COMPANY'S PRODUCTS AND POTENTIAL NEW PRODUCTS ARE SUBJECT TO EXTENSIVE GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION. The Company's business is regulated by various agencies of the states and localities where its products are sold. Governmental regulations in foreign countries where the Company plans to commence or expand sales may prevent or delay entry into a market or prevent or delay the introduction, or require the reformulation, of certain of its products. In addition, no prediction can be made as to whether new domestic or foreign legislation regulating our activities will be enacted. Any new legislation could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and operations. Non-compliance with any applicable requirements may subject the Company or the manufacturers of its products to sanctions, including warning letters, fines, product recalls and seizures. -13- COLD REMEDY AND HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRODUCTS. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling and advertising of the cold remedy and health and wellness products are subject to regulation by several federal agencies, including: o the FDA; o the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"); o the Consumer Product Safety Commission; o the United States Department of Agriculture; o the United States Postal Service; o the United States Environmental Protection Agency; and o the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. In particular, the FDA regulates the safety, labeling and distribution of dietary supplements, including vitamins, minerals and herbs, food additives, food supplements, over-the-counter and prescription drugs and cosmetics. The FTC also has overlapping jurisdiction with the FDA to regulate the promotion and advertising of vitamins, over-the-counter drugs, cosmetics and foods. In addition, the cold remedy products are homeopathic remedies which are regulated by the Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States ("HPUS"). HPUS sets the standards for source, composition and preparation of homeopathic remedies which are officially recognized in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act of 1938. PHARMA. The preclinical development, clinical trials, product manufacturing and marketing of Pharma's potential new products are subject to federal and state regulation in the United States and other countries. Clinical trials and product marketing and manufacturing are subject to the rigorous review and approval processes of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Obtaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is lengthy and expensive. Typically, obtaining regulatory approval for pharmaceutical products requires substantial resources and takes several years. The length of this process depends on the type, complexity and novelty of the product and the nature of the disease or other indication to be treated. Preclinical studies must comply with FDA regulations. Clinical trials must also comply with FDA regulations and may require large numbers of test subjects, complex protocols and possibly lengthy follow-up periods. Consequently, satisfaction of government regulations may take several years, may cause delays in introducing potential new products for considerable periods of time and may require imposing costly procedures upon the Company's activities. If regulatory approval of new products is not obtained in a timely manner or not at all the Company could be materially adversely affected. Even if regulatory approval of new products is obtained, such approval may impose limitations on the indicated uses for which the products may be marketed which could also materially adversely affect the business, financial condition and future operations of the Company. THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS IS VERY COMPETITIVE AND INCREASED COMPETITION COULD HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON EARNINGS. Both the non-prescription healthcare product and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. Many of the Company's competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience than it does. These and other entities may have or may develop new technologies. These technologies may be used to develop products that compete with the Company. The Company believes that the primary cold remedy product, Cold-Eeze(R), has a competitive advantage over other cold remedy products because it has been clinically proven to reduce the severity and duration of common cold symptoms. The Company believes that Darius has an advantage over its competitors because it directly sells its proprietary health and wellness products through its extensive network of independent distributors. Competition in Pharma's expected product areas would most likely come from large pharmaceutical companies as well as other companies, universities and research institutions, many of which have resources far in excess of the Company's resources. The Company believes that its ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including price, product quality, availability, reliability and name recognition of its cold remedy, health and wellness products and Pharma's ability to successfully develop and market prescription medications. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the future. If the Company is unable to compete, its earnings may be significantly impacted. -14- THE COMPANY'S FUTURE SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE CONTINUED SERVICES OF KEY PERSONNEL INCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of key personnel. In particular, the loss of the services of Guy J. Quigley, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer could have a material adverse effect on operations. The Company had an employment agreement with Mr. Quigley which expired on December 31, 2005. Future success and growth also depends on the Company's ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. If the Company is unable to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. THE COMPANY'S FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT OF RICHARD A. ROSENBLOOM, M.D., PH.D., WITH PHARMA. Pharma's potential new products are being developed through the efforts of Dr. Rosenbloom. The loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's product development and future operations. THE COMPANY'S FUTURE SUCCESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE CONTINUED ACCEPTANCE OF THE DIRECT SELLING PHILOSOPHY, THE MAINTENANCE OF THE NETWORK OF EXISTING INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTOR REPRESENTATIVES AND THE RECRUITMENT OF ADDITIONAL SUCCESSFUL INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTOR REPRESENTATIVES. Darius markets and sells herbal vitamins and dietary supplements for the human condition through its network of independent distributor representatives. Its products are sold to independent distributor representatives who either use the products for their own personal consumption or resell them to consumers. The independent distributor representatives receive compensation for sales achieved by means of a commission structure or compensation plan on certain product sales of certain personnel within their downstream independent distributor representative network. Since the independent distributor representatives are not employees of Darius, they are under no obligation to continue buying and selling Darius' products and the loss of key high-level distributors could negatively impact the Company's future growth and profitability. THE COMPANY'S FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE CONTINUED SALES OF ITS PRINCIPAL PRODUCT. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, the Cold-Eeze(R) products represented approximately 59% of the Company's total sales. While the Company has diversified into health and wellness products, the line of Cold-Eeze(R) products continues to be a major part of its business. Accordingly, the Company has to depend on the continued acceptance of Cold-Eeze(R) products by its customers. However, there can be no assurance that the Cold-Eeze(R) products will continue to receive market acceptance. The inability to successfully commercialize Cold-Eeze(R) in the future, for any reason, would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, prospects and ability to continue operations of the Company. THE COMPANY HAS A CONCENTRATION OF SALES TO AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM SEVERAL LARGE CUSTOMERS. Although the Company has a broad range of customers that includes many large wholesalers, mass merchandisers and multiple outlet pharmacy chains, the five largest customers account for a significant percentage of sales. These five customers accounted for 31% of total sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and 29% of total sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, customers comprising the five largest accounts receivable balances represented 56% and 47% of total accounts receivable balances at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Credit is extended to customers based upon an evaluation of their financial condition and credit history, and collateral is not generally required. If one or more of these large customers cannot pay, the write-off of their accounts receivable would have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations and financial condition. The loss of sales to any one or more of these large customers would also have a material adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of the Company.. THE COMPANY IS DEPENDENT ON THIRD-PARTY MANUFACTURERS AND SUPPLIERS FOR THE HEALTH AND WELLNESS PRODUCTS AND THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS FOR CERTAIN OF THE COLD REMEDY PRODUCTS. The Company does not manufacture any of the Health and Wellness products, nor manufacture any of the ingredients in these products. In addition, all active ingredients that are raw materials used in connection with the Cold-Eeze(R) product are purchased from a single unaffiliated supplier. Should any of these relationships terminate, the Company believes that the contingency plans which have been formulated would prevent a termination from materially affecting its operations. However, if any of these relationships are terminated, there may be delays in production of the Company's products until an acceptable replacement -15- facility is located. The Company continues to look for safe and reliable multiple-location sources for products and raw materials so that it can continue to obtain products and raw materials in the event of a disruption in its business relationship with any single manufacturer or supplier. While secondary sources have been identified for some of the Company's products and raw materials, its inability to find other sources for some of its other products and raw materials may have a material adverse effect on its operations. In addition, the terms on which manufacturers and suppliers will make products and raw materials available to us could have a material effect on the Company's success. THE COMPANY IS UNCERTAIN AS TO WHETHER IT CAN PROTECT ITS PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. The strength of the Company's patent position may be important to its long-term success. The Company currently owns eight U.S. and ten foreign patents in connection with products that are being developed by Pharma. In addition, the Company has been granted an exclusive agreement for worldwide representation, manufacturing, marketing and distribution rights to a zinc/gluconate/glycine lozenge formulation. That formulation has been patented in the United States, Germany, France, Italy, Sweden, Canada and Great Britain and a patent is pending in Japan. However, this patent in the United States expired in August 2004 and expired in June 2005 in all countries except Japan. There can be no assurance that these patents and the Company's exclusive license will effectively protect its products from duplication by others. In addition, the Company may not be able to afford the expense of any litigation which may be necessary to enforce its rights under any of the patents. Although the Company believes that current and future products do not and will not infringe upon the patents or violate the proprietary rights of others, if any of the current or future products do infringe upon the patents or proprietary rights of others, the Company may have to modify the products or obtain an additional license for the manufacture and/or sale of such products. The Company could also be prohibited from selling the infringing products. If the Company is found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, it is uncertain whether the Company will be able to take corrective actions in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions, or at all, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect upon its business, financial condition and operations. The Company also use non-disclosure agreements with its employees, suppliers, consultants and customers to establish and protect the ideas, concepts and documentation of its confidential non-patented and non-copyright protected proprietary technology and know-how. However, these methods may not afford complete protection. There can be no assurance that third parties will not obtain access to or independently develop the Company's technologies, know-how, ideas, concepts and documentation, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition. THE SALES OF THE COMPANY'S PRIMARY PRODUCT FLUCTUATES BY SEASON. A significant portion of the Company's business is highly seasonal, which causes major variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. The third and fourth quarters generally represent the largest sales volume for the cold remedy products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to manage its working capital needs and its inventory to meet the fluctuating demand for these products. Failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand may result in the production of excess inventory. Conversely, if products achieve greater success than anticipated for any given quarter, this may result in insufficient inventory to meet customer demand. THE COMPANY'S EXISTING PRODUCTS AND NEW PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT EXPOSE THE COMPANY TO POTENTIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. The Company's business results in exposure to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims, including claims for serious bodily injury or death caused by the sales of the Company's existing products and the clinical trials of products which are being developed. These claims could lead to substantial damage awards. The Company currently maintains product liability insurance in the amount of, and with a maximum payout of, $25 million. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, existing insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Claims against the Company, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect on the consumer demand for its products. THE COMPANY IS INVOLVED IN LAWSUITS REGARDING CLAIMS RELATING TO CERTAIN OF THE COLD-EEZE(R) PRODUCTS AND OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS. The Company is, from time to time, subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted. Any such claims, including those contained in Item 3 of this report, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to defend and could divert management's attention and resources. While management believes that the Company has adequate insurance coverage and, if applicable, accrued loss contingencies for all known matters, there is no assurance that the outcome of all current or future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. -16- A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF THE COMPANY'S OUTSTANDING COMMON STOCK IS OWNED BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND PRESIDENT AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, AS A GROUP CAN SIGNIFICANTLY INFLUENCE ALL MATTERS VOTED ON BY STOCKHOLDERS. Guy J. Quigley, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, through his beneficial ownership, has the power to vote approximately 27.0% of The Company's common stock. Mr. Quigley and the other executive officers and directors collectively beneficially own approximately 41.2% of the common stock. These individuals have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including election of directors. Consequently, they exercise substantial control over all major decisions which could prevent a change of control of the Company. THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE. The market price of the Company's common stock has experienced significant volatility. From January 1, 2003 to January 31, 2007, the per share bid price has ranged from a low of approximately $4.75 to a high of approximately $16.94. There are several factors which could affect the price of the common stock, some of which are announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by us or competitors, developments concerning propriety rights, new or revised governmental regulation or general conditions in the market for the Company's products. Sales of a substantial number of shares by existing stockholders could also have an adverse effect on the market price of the common stock. FUTURE SALES OF SHARES OF THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK IN THE PUBLIC MARKET COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF SHARES OF THE COMMON STOCK AND THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO RAISE FUNDS IN NEW STOCK OFFERINGS. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of the Company's common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could affect prevailing trading prices of the common stock and, as a result, the value of the notes. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had 12,684,633 shares of common stock outstanding. The Company also has outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 3,047,000 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $7.58 per share and outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 550,000 shares of common stock at an average exercise price of $10.00 per warrant. If the holders of these shares, options or warrants were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of the common stock would likely decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of this potential dilution could cause stockholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to "short" the stock, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of shares of common stock being offered for sale to increase, the common stock's market price would likely further decline. All of these events could combine to make it very difficult for the Company to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that it deems appropriate. THE COMPANY DOES NOT INTEND TO PAY CASH DIVIDENDS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. The Company has not paid cash dividends on its common stock since inception. The intention of the Company is to retain earnings, if any, for use in the business and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends to stockholders in the foreseeable future. THE COMPANY'S ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS CONTAIN CERTAIN PROVISIONS THAT MAY BE BARRIERS TO A TAKEOVER. The Company's Articles of Incorporation and By-laws contain certain provisions which may deter, discourage, or make it difficult to assume control of the Company by another corporation or person through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or similar transaction or series of transactions. These provisions may deter a future tender offer or other takeover attempt. Some stockholders may believe such an offer to be in their best interest because it may include a premium over the market price of the common stock at the time. In addition, these provisions may assist current management in retaining its position and place it in a better position to resist changes which some stockholders may want to make if dissatisfied with the conduct of the Company's business. THE COMPANY HAS AGREED TO INDEMNIFY ITS OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS FROM LIABILITY. Sections 78.7502 and 78.751 of the Nevada General Corporation Law allow the Company to indemnify any person who is or was made a party to, or is or was threatened to be made a party to, any pending, completed, or threatened action, suit or proceeding because he or she is or was a director, officer, employee or -17- agent of the Company or is or was serving at the Company's request as a director, officer, employee or agent of any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise. These provisions permit the Company to advance expenses to an indemnified party in connection with defending any such proceeding, upon receipt of an undertaking by the indemnified party to repay those amounts if it is later determined that the party is not entitled to indemnification. These provisions may also reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and officers and discourage or deter stockholders from suing directors or officers for breaches of their duties to the Company, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit the Company or its stockholders. In addition, to the extent that the Company expends funds to indemnify directors and officers, funds will be unavailable for operational purposes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 