ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues come from a small number of customers We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales. Our five largest customers in fiscal 2006 represented approximately 47% of our total net sales. Because our larger customers typically purchase products in relatively large quantities at a time, our financial performance can fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon the timing of their purchases. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net sales. Because our major customers represent such a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers could negatively impact our business. Our major customers may not continue to purchase products from us at current levels or at all. In the past, we have lost customers due to our customers’ changes in technology preferences, customers’ shifting production of products to internal facilities and the acquisition of our customers. We may lose customers in the future for similar reasons. We may not be able to expand our customer 10 Table of Contents base to make up any sales shortfalls if we lose a major customer. Our attempt to diversify our customer base and reduce our reliance on particular customers may not be successful. We depend on private label sales arrangements and third party distributors for a significant portion of our revenues, the loss of one or more of which could reduce our future sales revenue A significant portion of our net sales to date have depended on our ability to provide products that meet the requirements of medical product companies that resell or distribute our products, and on the sales and marketing efforts of such entities. Arrangements with these entities are likely to continue to be a significant portion of our revenues in the future. There can be no assurance that our purchasers and distributors will be able to successfully market and sell our products, that they will devote sufficient resources to support the marketing of any of our products, that they will market any of our products at prices which will permit such products to develop, achieve, or sustain market acceptance, or that they will not develop alternative sources of supply. The failure of our purchasers and distributors to continue to purchase products from us at levels reasonably consistent with their prior purchases or to effectively market our products could significantly reduce our future sales revenue. Our products may not succeed in the market We have several products, including the antibacterial hydrophilic and antibacterial hydro intermittent catheters, the RELEASE-NF Catheter, and the FemSoft Insert, that represent new methods and improvements for urinary continence care. There can be no assurance that these products will gain any significant degree of market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors and patients. Market acceptance of these products, if it occurs, may require lengthy hospital evaluations and/or the training of numerous physicians and clinicians, which could delay or dampen any such market acceptance. Moreover, approval of third party reimbursement for our products, competing products or alternative medical treatments, and our pricing policies will be important factors in determining market acceptance of these products. Any of the foregoing factors, or other factors, could limit or detract from market acceptance of these products. Insufficient market acceptance of these products could impact future sales revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not succeed in establishing a separate brand identity for our Rochester Medical brand products Our success will depend on our ability to overcome established market positions of competitors and to establish our own market presence under the Rochester Medical brand name. One of the challenges facing us in this respect is our ability to compete with companies that offer a wider array of products to hospitals and medical care institutions, distributors and end users. In addition, we have been unsuccessful until recently in competing in the Group Purchasing Organization (GPO) market, where organizations such as hospitals, rehabilitation centers and acute care facilities acquire products not directly from manufacturers, but rather from distributors where pricing is determined under agreements between those distributors and GPOs. In November 2006, we announced we had been awarded a national GPO contract for urological products from Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P., one of the largest GPOs in the United States with over $27 billion in contract purchases per year. The contract includes our Foley catheters (including its infection control catheters), male external catheters, intermittent catheters, and urethral inserts. There can be no assurance, however, that the contract will generate significant sales, that the contract will be renewed beyond its initial 27-month term, or that contracts with other GPOs will follow. We may also find it difficult to sell our products due to the limited recognition of our brand name. In February 2004, we brought suit against certain GPOs and individual defendants alleging anti-competitive conduct against the defendants in the markets for standard and anti-infection Foley catheters as well as urethral catheters, and seek an unspecified amount of damages and injunctive and other relief. In November 2006, we announced that we had reached a settlement with Premier, whereby Premier will pay us $8,825,000 (net $5,155,000 after payment of attorneys’ fees and expenses) and will be dismissed from the lawsuit. In December 2006, we announced that we had reached a settlement with C.R. Bard, Inc., whereby C.R. Bard will pay us $49,000,000 (net $33,450,000 after payment of attorneys’ fees and expenses) and will be dismissed from the lawsuit. The litigation continues against all other defendants in the case, which is scheduled for trial in May 2007. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in the lawsuit against the remaining defendants. We face significant competition in the market for urinary continence products The medical products market in general is, and the markets for urinary continence care products in particular are, highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition than us and offer well known and established products, some of which are less expensive than our products. As a result, even if we can demonstrate that our products provide greater ease of use, lifestyle improvement or beneficial effects on medical outcomes over the course of treatment, we may not be successful in capturing a 11 Table of Contents significant share of the market. In addition, many of our competitors offer broader product lines than us, which may be a competitive advantage in obtaining contracts with GPOs, and may adversely affect our ability to obtain contracts with such GPOs. Additionally, many of our competitors have substantially more marketing and sales experience than us and substantially larger sales forces and greater resources to devote to such efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against such competitors. Our products may become obsolete if we are unable to anticipate and adapt to new treatments or techniques Urinary continence care can be managed with a variety of alternative medical treatments and management products or techniques, including adult diapers and absorbent pads, surgery, behavior therapy, pelvic muscle exercise, implantable devices, injectable materials and other medical devices. Manufacturers of these products or techniques are engaged in research to develop more advanced versions of current products and techniques. Many of the companies that are engaged in such development work have substantially greater capital resources than us and greater expertise than us in research, development and regulatory matters. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete with existing or future alternative products, techniques or therapies, or that advancements in existing products, techniques or therapies will not render our products obsolete. We have a limited history of profitability and may experience future losses Prior to fiscal 2003, we generated only limited revenues and experienced net losses. Net income for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $1,959,000, $934,000, $747,000 and $330,000, respectively, while the net loss for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2002 was $1.4 million. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $20.1 million at September 30, 2006. A substantial portion of the expenses associated with our manufacturing facilities are fixed in nature (i.e. depreciation) and will reduce our operating margin until such time, if ever, as we are able to increase utilization of our capacity through increased sales of our new products. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will ever generate substantial revenues or sustain profitability. Although we achieved profitability in fiscal years 2003 through 2006, we cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could prevent us from selling our products or introducing new and/or improved products in the United States or internationally Our products, product development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies in foreign countries. In the United States, the FDA regulates the introduction of medical devices as well as manufacturing, labeling and record keeping procedures for such products. The process of obtaining marketing clearance for new medical products from the FDA can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearance will be granted timely, if at all, for our products in development, or that FDA review will not involve delays that would adversely affect our ability to commercialize additional products or to expand permitted uses of existing products. Even if regulatory clearance to market a product is obtained from the FDA, this clearance may entail limitations on the indicated uses of the product. Marketing clearance can also be withdrawn by the FDA due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial clearance. We may be required to make further filings with the FDA under certain circumstances, such as the addition of product claims or product reformulation. The FDA could also limit or prevent the manufacture or distribution of our products and has the power to require the recall of such products. FDA regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation, and there can be no assurance that future interpretation made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, which may have retroactive effect, will not adversely affect us. The FDA and various state agencies inspect us and our facilities from time to time to determine whether we are in compliance with regulations relating to medical device manufacturing companies, including regulations concerning design, manufacturing, testing, quality control and product labeling practices. A determination that we are in material violation of such regulations could lead to the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls, product seizures, or, in extreme cases, criminal sanctions. A portion of our revenues are dependent upon sales of our products outside the United States. Foreign regulatory bodies have established varying regulations governing product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. We rely on our third-party foreign distributors to comply with certain foreign regulatory requirements. The inability or failure of us or such foreign distributors to comply with varying foreign regulations or the imposition of new regulations could restrict the sale of our products internationally and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our success may depend on the ability of healthcare providers to achieve adequate levels of third-party reimbursement In the United States, healthcare providers that purchase medical devices generally rely on third party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance plans and managed care organizations, to reimburse all or a portion of the cost of the devices. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the pricing of medical products and procedures they consider unnecessary, inappropriate, not cost effective, experimental or used for a non approved indication. Even if a medical device is eligible for reimbursement, the level of reimbursement may not be adequate to enable us to achieve or maintain market acceptance of our products or maintain price levels that exceed our costs of developing and manufacturing our products. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future, or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on us. Reforms may include mandated basic health care benefits, limitations on the growth of private health insurance premiums and Medicare and Medicaid spending, greater reliance on prospective payment systems, the creation of large insurance purchasing groups and fundamental changes to the health care delivery system. We anticipate that Congress and state legislatures will continue to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methodologies. We cannot predict whether any reform proposals will be adopted or what impact they may have on us. Reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region within some countries. Many international markets have government managed health care systems that control reimbursement for new devices and procedures. In most international markets, there are private insurance systems as well as government managed systems. We cannot assure you that reimbursement for our products will be available in international markets under either government or private reimbursement systems. We depend on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business If we are unable to attract, train and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and unable to develop new products or increase revenue. We may grant large numbers of options to attract and retain personnel, which could be highly dilutive to our shareholders. The failure to attract, train, retain and effectively manage employees could negatively impact our research and development and sales efforts. In particular, the loss of sales personnel could lead to lost sales opportunities because it can take several months to hire and train replacement sales personnel. Uncertainty created by turnover of key employees could adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price. We depend on a few suppliers for key components, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuation We obtain certain raw materials and components for a number of our products from a sole supplier or limited number of suppliers; we have no long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. While it is our goal to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not economically practical or feasible to do so. To mitigate this risk, we maintain an awareness of alternate supply sources that could provide our currently single-sourced raw materials or components with minimal or no modification to the current version of our products, practice supply chain management, maintain safety stocks of critical raw materials and components and have arrangements with our key suppliers to manage the availability of critical components. Despite these efforts, if our suppliers are unable to provide us with an adequate supply of raw materials or components in a timely manner, or if we are unable to locate qualified alternate suppliers for components at a reasonable cost, the cost of our products would increase, the availability of our products to our customers would decrease and our ability to generate revenues could be materially limited. Additionally, in the event that we have to replace a supplier, we may be required to repeat biocompatibility and other testing of our products using the material from the new supplier and may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single industrial park; therefore, any disruption at our existing facilities could substantially affect our business We manufacture our products at one industrial park using certain specialized equipment. Although we have contingency plans in effect for certain natural disasters, as well as other unforeseen events that could damage our facilities or equipment, any such events could materially interrupt our manufacturing operations. In the event of such an occurrence, we have business interruption insurance to cover lost revenues and profits. However, such insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with existing customers created by an inability to produce our products. 13 Table of Contents We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which we may not be able to protect Our success may depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and manufacturing processes, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. No assurance can be given that the scope of any patent protection under our current patents, or under any patent we might obtain in the future, will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us; that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged; or that others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. There can be no assurance that our technology, current or future products or activities will not be deemed to infringe upon the rights of others. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others have not developed or will not develop similar products or manufacturing processes, duplicate any of our products or manufacturing processes, or design around our patents. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent technology or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology or disclose such technology or that we can ultimately protect meaningful rights to such unpatented proprietary technology. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to resolve The medical device industry is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation, particularly with respect to newly developed technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us, or to determine the ownership, scope or validity of the proprietary rights of us and others. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of such litigation is difficult to predict. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, a claim by a third party that our current products or products in development allegedly infringe its patent rights could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, an adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from such parties, if licenses to such rights could be obtained, and/or require us to cease using such technology. If third party patents containing claims affecting our technology were issued and such claims were determined to be valid, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to such patents at costs reasonable to us, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternate technology. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using or selling certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities The medical products industry is subject to substantial product liability litigation, and we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects to a patient. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, any such claims could have a material adverse effect on us, including on market acceptance of our products. We maintain general insurance policies that include coverage for product liability claims. The policies are limited to an aggregate maximum of $6 million per product liability claim, with an annual aggregate limit of $7 million under the policies. We have an additional $4 million of coverage per product liability claim and annual aggregate limit related to the United Kingdom. We may require increased product liability coverage as new products are developed and commercialized. There can be no assurance that liability claims will not exceed the coverage limits of our policies or that adequate insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A product liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. International operations will expose us to additional risks We are marketing and will continue to market and sell our products either through a direct sales force or through distributors in international markets, subject to our receipt of the requisite foreign regulatory approvals. We have distribution arrangements with approximately 10 distributors in international markets. We cannot assure you that international distributors for our products will devote adequate resources to selling and servicing our products. Our international sales are subject to several risks, including: • the ability of our independent distributors to market and sell our products; 14 Table of Contents • our ability to identify new independent distributors in international markets where we do not currently have distributors; • the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers; • weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability. The occurrence of any of these events could seriously harm our future international sales and our ability to successfully commercialize our products in international markets, thereby limiting our growth and revenues. Our business is also expected to subject us and our representatives, agents and distributors to laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or our products are sold. We may depend on foreign distributors and agents for compliance and adherence to foreign laws and regulations. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance requirements The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we will be required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, together with new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Nasdaq, have imposed various new requirements on public companies, including requiring certain corporate governance practices. These rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We may be unable to meet our future capital requirements We believe our existing resources and anticipated cash flows from operations and known cash settlements will be sufficient to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future. However, our actual liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the costs, method and timing of expansion of sales and marketing activities and manufacturing capacity; the amount of revenues from sales of our existing and new products, including hydrophilic and antibacterial intermittent catheters, the RELEASE-NF Catheter and the FemSoft Insert; changes in, termination of, and the success of, existing and new distribution arrangements; the cost of maintaining, enforcing and defending patents and other intellectual property rights; competing technological and market developments; developments relating to regulatory and third party reimbursement matters; the cost and progress of our research and development efforts; opportunities for growth through acquisition, joint venture or other business combinations, if any; and other factors. In the event that additional financing is needed, we may seek to raise additional funds through public or private financing, collaborate relationships or other arrangements. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to shareholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve significant restrictive covenants. Failure to raise capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that such financing, if required, will be available on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 