ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of the risks and uncertainties described below. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a limited history of profitability and our strategic business plan may not produce the intended growth in revenue and operating income Our net income for the 2012 fiscal year was $2,050,000, while we experienced net losses of $(1,315,000) for fiscal 2011 and $(254,000) for fiscal 2010. The objective of our three year strategic plan that we adopted at the beginning of fiscal 2011 was to double our annual overall sales during the three fiscal years of the plan, while also producing a significant increase in net income in the third year. As part of that plan, we increased the level of investment in our sales and marketing programs to support our direct sales growth in the U.S. and Europe through the addition of several members to our sale team, with the increased investment expected to be funded primarily through cash generated from operations. We recently updated our three-year strategic plan, primarily as a result of the discontinuation of our Foley catheter line and, to a lesser extent, a more conservative assumption regarding international sales given the broader economic challenges in Europe. A substantial portion of the expenses associated with our manufacturing facilities are fixed in nature (i.e. depreciation) and will reduce our operating margin until such time, if ever, as we are able to increase utilization of our capacity through increased sales of our products. While we still expect significant growth in sales as a result of our three-year strategic plan, if we do not achieve the expected benefits from these investments or otherwise fail to execute on our strategic initiatives, we may not achieve the accelerated revenue growth we are targeting or the bottom line results that we anticipate. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will ever generate substantial revenues or sustain profitability. Although we achieved profitability in fiscal years 2003 through 2009 and again in 2012, we cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. A significant portion of our revenues come from a small number of customers We depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our net sales. Our five largest customers in fiscal 2012 represented approximately 31% of our total net sales. Because our larger customers typically purchase products in relatively large quantities at a time, our financial performance can fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending upon the timing of their purchases. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our net sales. Because our major customers represent such a large part of our business, the loss of any of our major customers could negatively impact our business. Our major customers may not continue to purchase products from us at current levels or at all. In the past, we have lost customers due to our customers' changes in technology preferences, customers' shifting production of products to internal facilities and the acquisition of our customers. We may lose customers in the future for similar reasons. We may not be able to expand our customer base to make up any sales shortfalls if we lose a major customer. Our attempt to diversify our customer base and reduce our reliance on particular customers may not be successful. 13 Table of Contents Our products may not succeed in the market We have several products, including the antibacterial hydrophilic intermittent catheters and the FemSoft Insert, that represent new methods and improvements for urinary continence care. There can be no assurance that these products will gain any significant degree of market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors and patients. Market acceptance of these products, if it occurs, may require lengthy hospital evaluations and/or the training of numerous physicians and clinicians, which could delay or dampen any such market acceptance. Moreover, approval of third party reimbursement for our products, competing products or alternative medical treatments, and our pricing policies will be important factors in determining market acceptance of these products. Any of the foregoing factors, or other factors, could limit or detract from market acceptance of these products. Insufficient market acceptance of these products could impact future sales revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not succeed in establishing a separate brand identity for our Rochester Medical brand products Our success will depend on our ability to overcome established market positions of competitors and to establish our own market presence under the Rochester Medical brand name. One of the challenges facing us in this respect is our ability to compete with companies that offer a wider array of products to hospitals and medical care institutions, distributors and end users. In addition, until 2007 we had been unsuccessful in competing in the Group Purchasing Organization market, where organizations such as hospitals, rehabilitation centers and acute care facilities acquire products not directly from manufacturers, but rather from distributors where pricing is determined under agreements between those distributors and GPOs. GPOs typically award contracts on a category-by-category basis through a competitive bidding process. We have a national GPO contract for urological products with Premier Purchasing Partners, L.P., one of the largest GPOs in the United States, through February 2013 for our MECs, intermittent catheters, and urethral inserts. Similarly, we have an Innovative Technology Contract with Novation, LLC through June 2013 for our urological catheter products and related accessories, including our advanced infection control catheters. We also have a urological products contract with Broadlane Inc. (now MedAssets, Inc.) through October 2014. There can be no assurance, however, that these contracts will generate significant sales, that the contracts will be renewed beyond their current terms, or that contracts with other GPOs will follow. We may also find it difficult to sell our products due to the limited recognition of our brand name. We depend on private label sales arrangements and third party distributors for a significant portion of our revenues, the loss of one or more of which could reduce our future sales revenue A significant portion of our net sales to date have depended upon our ability to provide products that meet the requirements of medical product companies that resell or distribute our products under their brand names, and on the sales and marketing efforts of such entities. Private label sales arrangements with these entities are likely to continue to be a significant, but declining, portion of our revenues in the future. We also rely on various independent distributors to sell our products. There can be no assurance that our private label purchasers and distributors will be able to successfully market and sell our products, that they will devote sufficient resources to support the marketing of any of our products, that they will market any of our products at prices which will permit such products to develop, achieve, or sustain market acceptance, or that they will not develop alternative sources of supply. Worldwide private label sales increased 6% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011, but represented 20% of total net sales in fiscal 2012 compared to 22% in fiscal 2011. The failure of our purchasers and distributors to continue to purchase products from us at levels reasonably consistent with their prior purchases or to effectively market our products, or our failure to replace such private label sales with sales under the Rochester Medical brand, could significantly reduce our future sales revenue. We face significant competition in the market for urinary continence products The medical products market in general is, and the markets for urinary continence care products in particular are, highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater name recognition than us and offer well known and established products, some of which are less expensive than our products. As a result, even if we can demonstrate 14 Table of Contents that our products provide greater ease of use, lifestyle improvement or beneficial effects on medical outcomes over the course of treatment, we may not be successful in capturing a significant share of the market. In addition, many of our competitors offer broader product lines than us, which may be a competitive advantage in obtaining contracts with GPOs, and may adversely affect our ability to obtain contracts with such GPOs. Many of our competitors also have substantially more marketing and sales experience than us and substantially larger sales forces and greater resources to devote to such efforts. We have increased the level of investment in our sales and marketing programs to support our direct sales growth in the U.S. and Europe through the addition of several members to our sales team. There can be no assurance that our investment in our sales and marketing programs will produce the results we expect or that we will be able to compete successfully against such competitors. Our products may become obsolete if we are unable to anticipate and adapt to new treatments or techniques Urinary continence care can be managed with a variety of alternative medical treatments and management products or techniques, including adult diapers and absorbent pads, surgery, behavior therapy, pelvic muscle exercise, implantable devices, injectable materials and other medical devices. Manufacturers of these products or techniques are engaged in research to develop more advanced versions of current products and techniques. Many of the companies that are engaged in such development work have substantially greater capital resources than us and greater expertise than us in research, development and regulatory matters. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete with existing or future alternative products, techniques or therapies, or that advancements in existing products, techniques or therapies will not render our products obsolete. Our success may depend on the ability of healthcare providers to achieve adequate levels of reimbursement from third-party payors, and cost containment measures could decrease the demand for our products and the prices that our customers are willing to pay for those products Our products are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their services and the products they provide from government and third-party payors is critical to the success of medical device companies because it affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. Even when we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Major third-party payors for healthcare provider services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs through, among other things, the introduction of cost containment incentives and closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as the United Kingdom and other countries within the European Union may limit the price of, or the level at which, reimbursement is provided for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Healthcare providers may respond to such cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our products. In March 2010, significant health care reform was enacted into law in the United States, which included a number of provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. It is uncertain what consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies and what impacts these provisions will have on Medicare reimbursement rates. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems that significantly reduce reimbursement for our products or deny coverage for such products, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of such systems in coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the products purchased by our customers and the prices our customers are willing to pay for them. This in turn would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected by recent healthcare reform legislation and other administration and legislative proposals The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care and Educational Reconciliation Act of 2010 were enacted into law in March 2010. Certain provisions of the law will not be effective for a number of years and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood, and it is unclear what the full impacts will be on us or the U.S. economy from the legislation. The law levies a 2.3% excise tax on all U.S. medical device sales beginning in 2013, which tax may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In fiscal 2012, this would have equated to an excise tax of approximately $234,000. The law also focuses on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs. It is uncertain at this point what negative unintended consequences these provisions will have on patient access to new technologies. The Medicare provisions include value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). Additionally, the provisions include a reduction in the annual rate of inflation for hospitals that began in 2011 and the establishment of an independent payment advisory board to recommend ways of reducing the rate of growth in Medicare spending beginning in 2014. We cannot predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, any changes that lower reimbursements for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive governmental regulation that could prevent us from selling our products or introducing new and/or improved products in the United States or internationally, or expose us to enforcement actions and penalties We operate in several parts of the world, and our operations are affected by various state, federal and international healthcare, antitrust, anti-corruption and employment laws, including, for example, various FDA and international regulations, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. The failure to comply with these laws and regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or our manufacturing processes could result in (i) warning letters, fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory clearances, detainment, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and/or civil or criminal prosecution, and/or penalties, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims; and (ii) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. Our products, product development activities, marketing and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies in foreign countries. In the United States, the FDA regulates the introduction of medical devices into the market as well as manufacturing, labeling and record keeping procedures for such products. The process of obtaining marketing clearance for new medical products from the FDA can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that such clearance will be granted timely, if at all, for our products in development, or that FDA review will not involve delays that would adversely affect our ability to commercialize additional products or to expand permitted uses of existing products. Even if regulatory clearance to market a product is obtained from the FDA, this clearance may entail limitations on the indicated uses of the product. Marketing clearance can also be withdrawn by the FDA due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial clearance. We may be required to make further filings with the FDA under certain circumstances, such as the addition of product claims or product reformulation. The FDA could also limit or prevent the manufacture or distribution of our products and has the power to require the recall of such products. FDA regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation, and there can be no assurance that future interpretation made by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, which may have retroactive effect, will not adversely affect us. The FDA and various state agencies inspect us and our facilities from time to time to determine whether we are in compliance with regulations relating to medical 16 Table of Contents device manufacturing companies, including regulations concerning design, manufacturing, testing, quality control and product labeling practices. A determination that we are in material violation of such regulations could lead to the imposition of civil penalties, including fines, product recalls, product seizures, or, in extreme cases, criminal sanctions. A significant portion of our revenues are dependent upon sales of our products outside the United States. Foreign regulatory bodies have established varying regulations governing product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, duties and tax requirements. Foreign governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may become subject to even more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Penalties for a company's noncompliance with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company's business license and criminal sanctions. We rely on our third-party foreign distributors to comply with certain foreign regulatory requirements. The inability or failure of us or such foreign distributors to comply with varying foreign regulations or the imposition of new regulations could restrict the sale of our products internationally and thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international sales and operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations and additional risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 63% of our net sales in fiscal 2012. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. We are currently marketing our products in approximately 75 countries around the world and will continue to market and sell our products either through a direct sales force or through distributors in international markets, subject to our receipt of the requisite foreign regulatory approvals. Our sales and profitability from our international operations and our ability to implement our overall business strategy are subject to risk and uncertainties that can vary country by country. We have distribution arrangements with three distributors in international markets. We cannot assure you that international distributors for our products will devote adequate resources to selling and servicing our products. We face currency and other risks associated with our international sales. Through our subsidiaries Rochester Medical Limited and Laprolan B.V., we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to transactions denominated primarily in British pounds or euros, which may potentially reduce the U.S. dollars we report for sales denominated in British pounds or euros and/or increase the U.S. dollars we report as expenses in British pounds or euros, thereby affecting our reported consolidated net sales and net income. Fluctuations between the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency translation gains and losses. We cannot predict the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the volatility of currency exchange rates. In addition to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, there are a number of additional risks associated with our international operations, including those related to: •the ability of our independent distributors to market and sell our products; •our ability to identify new independent distributors in international markets where we do not currently have distributors; •the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States; •foreign tax laws and potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures; •greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; •unexpected changes or increases in regulatory requirements, surtaxes, tariffs, customs duties or other trade barriers; •weaker intellectual property rights protection in some countries; and •political and economic instability, including concerns over excessive levels of national debt and budget deficits in countries where we market our products that could result in an inability to collect or timely collect outstanding receivables. 17 Table of Contents The occurrence of any of these events could seriously harm our future international sales and our ability to successfully commercialize our products in international markets, thereby limiting our growth and revenues. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of "off books" slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. Because of the predominance of government-sponsored health care systems around the world, many of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and are therefore subject to such anti-bribery laws. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and internal control policies, these measures may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. Furthermore, we are subject to the export controls and economic embargo rules and regulations of the United States, including the Export Administration Regulations and trade sanctions against embargoed countries, which are administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the Department of the Treasury, as well as the laws and regulations administered by the Department of Commerce. These regulations limit our ability to market, sell, distribute or otherwise transfer our products or technology to prohibited countries or persons. While we train our employees to comply with these regulations, we cannot assure that a violation will not occur, whether knowingly or inadvertently. Failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in substantial penalties, including fines and enforcement actions and civil and criminal sanctions, the disgorgement of profits and the imposition of a court-appointed monitor, as well as the denial of export privileges and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Our business is also expected to subject us and our representatives, agents and distributors to laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or our products are sold. We may depend on foreign distributors and agents for compliance and adherence to foreign laws and regulations. Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy to grow our business, we have made acquisitions in recent years and may make additional acquisitions in the future. In April 2011, we completed the acquisition of Laprolan B.V., which distributes into the European market certain LaproCare ostomy and wound and scar care products and accessories, anti-decubitis mattresses and other brands of urological products in addition to our own RochesterMedical branded products. However, we may not be able to identify other suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions successfully, and our strategic alliances may not prove to be successful. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, sales and marketing, general and administrative operations, and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: •the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; 18 Table of Contents •adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies; •any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases; •our ability to retain key employees; and •the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing net sales of the combined company's products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in any particular transaction, there can be no assurance that we will properly ascertain all such risks. In addition, acquisitions could result in the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses or in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that difficulties encountered with acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on certain key personnel, the loss of whom could harm our business If we are unable to attract, train and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and unable to develop new products or increase revenue. We may grant large numbers of stock options to attract and retain personnel, which could be highly dilutive to our shareholders. The failure to attract, train, retain and effectively manage employees could negatively impact our research and development and sales efforts. As part of our strategic plan, we have significantly expanded our U.S. sales and marketing presence. The loss of sales personnel could lead to lost sales opportunities because it can take several months to hire and train replacement sales personnel. Uncertainty created by turnover of key employees could adversely affect our business, operating results and stock price. We depend on a few suppliers for key components, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuation We obtain certain raw materials and components for a number of our products from a sole supplier or limited number of suppliers; we have no long-term supply contracts with any of our vendors. While it is our goal to have multiple sources to procure certain key components, in some cases it is not economically practical or feasible to do so. To mitigate this risk, we maintain an awareness of alternate supply sources that could provide our currently single-sourced raw materials or components with minimal or no modification to the current version of our products, practice supply chain management, maintain safety stocks of critical raw materials and components and have arrangements with our key suppliers to manage the availability of critical components. Despite these efforts, if our suppliers are unable to provide us with an adequate supply of raw materials or components in a timely manner, or if we are unable to locate qualified alternate suppliers for components at a reasonable cost, the cost of our products would increase, the availability of our products to our customers would decrease and our ability to generate revenues could be materially limited. Additionally, in the event that we have to replace a supplier, we may be required to repeat biocompatibility and other testing of our products using the material from the new supplier and may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. All of our manufacturing operations are conducted at a single industrial park; therefore, any disruption at our existing facilities could substantially affect our business We manufacture our products at one industrial park using certain specialized equipment. Although we have contingency plans in effect for certain natural disasters, as well as other unforeseen events that could damage our facilities or equipment, any such events could materially interrupt our manufacturing operations. In the event of such an occurrence, we have business interruption insurance to cover lost revenues and profits. However, such insurance would not compensate us for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact on relations with 19 Table of Contents existing customers created by an inability to produce our products. As a result, a reduction or interruption in manufacturing could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations. We depend on patents and proprietary rights, which we may not be able to protect Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and manufacturing processes, to preserve our trade secrets, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. The validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. No assurance can be given that the scope of any patent protection under our current patents, or under any patent we might obtain in the future, will exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us; that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged; or that others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. There can be no assurance that our technology, current or future products or activities will not be deemed to infringe upon the rights of others. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others have not developed or will not develop similar products or manufacturing processes, duplicate any of our products or manufacturing processes, or design around our patents. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets to protect our proprietary technology, and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire substantially equivalent technology or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology or disclose such technology or that we can ultimately protect meaningful rights to such unpatented proprietary technology. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that would be costly to resolve The medical device industry is characterized by frequent and substantial intellectual property litigation, particularly with respect to newly developed technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to us, to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by us, or to determine the ownership, scope or validity of the proprietary rights of us and others. Intellectual property litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of such litigation is difficult to predict. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense to us and significant diversion of the efforts of our technical and management personnel. As a result, a claim by a third party that our current products or products in development allegedly infringe its patent rights could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, an adverse determination in any such proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from such parties, if licenses to such rights could be obtained, and/or require us to cease using such technology. If third party patents containing claims affecting our technology were issued and such claims were determined to be valid, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to such patents at costs reasonable to us, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternate technology. Accordingly, an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could prevent us from manufacturing, using or selling certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face product liability claims that could result in costly litigation and significant liabilities The medical products industry is subject to substantial product liability litigation, and we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in adverse effects to a patient. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on us, including on market acceptance of our products. We maintain general insurance policies that include coverage for product liability claims. The policies are limited to an aggregate maximum of $6 million per product liability claim, with an annual aggregate limit of $11 million under the policies. We may require increased product liability coverage as new products are developed and commercialized. There can be no assurance that liability claims will not exceed the coverage limits of our policies or that adequate insurance will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. A product liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could require us to incur material costs. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, the cleanup of hazardous substance releases, and emissions or discharges into the air or water. We have incurred and expect to incur expenditures in the future in connection with compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could be material. Current economic instability in the United States and international economies may continue to adversely affect our business Financial markets and the economies in the United States and internationally may continue to experience disruption and volatility as they have in recent years, and conditions could worsen. The current economic environment may, among other things, create downward pressure on the pricing of our products, affect the collection of accounts receivable, increase the sale cycle of certain of our products, slow the adoption of new technology, and adversely affect our customers, causing them to reduce spending. Although the economy in the United States has begun to recover, the recovery has been below historic averages and the strength and timing of an economic recovery remains uncertain, which could continue to adversely affect our operations and results in fiscal 2013. If the U.S. government is unable to reach agreement on legislation addressing the United States' current debt level and budget deficit, many economists have predicted another economic recession. Proposed cuts in federal spending over the next decade could result in cuts to, and restructuring of, entitlement programs such as Medicare and aid to states for Medicaid programs. Our hospital customers rely heavily on Medicare and Medicaid programs to fund their operations. Any cuts to these programs could negatively affect the business of our customers and our business.The economies of Europe and other regions may also remain distressed well into 2013 or longer, which could continue to adversely affect our operations and results in fiscal 2013. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy, and we cannot predict to what extent a continued global economic slowdown may negatively impact our net sales and profit margins, sales volumes and reimbursement rates from third party payors. We may be unable to meet our future capital requirements We believe our existing resources and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future. However, our actual liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the costs, method and timing of expansion of sales and marketing activities and manufacturing capacity; the volume of sales of our existing and new products, including hydrophilic and antibacterial intermittent catheters and the FemSoft Insert; changes in, termination of, and the success of, existing and new distribution arrangements; the cost of maintaining, enforcing and defending patents and other intellectual property rights; competing technological and market developments; developments relating to regulatory and third party reimbursement matters; the cost and progress of our research and development efforts; opportunities for growth through acquisition, joint venture or other business combinations, if any; and other factors. Our ability to obtain financing for acquisitions or other general corporate and commercial purposes will depend on our operating and financial performance and is also subject to prevailing economic and financial conditions and to business and other factors beyond our control. Recently, global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions, a general tightening of credit, and an unprecedented level of market intervention from the United States and other governments. These events have adversely affected the U.S. and world economy, and may adversely affect the availability and cost of financing. In the event that additional financing is needed, we may seek to raise additional funds through public or private financing, collaborative relationships or other arrangements. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to shareholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve significant restrictive covenants. Failure to raise capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, 21 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that such financing, if required, will be available on terms satisfactory to us, if at all. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 