Risk Factors Certain statements contained in this report under various sections, including but not limited to “Business Strategy” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Forward Looking Statements.” Such statements are subject to the following important factors, among others, which in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company’s actual results and could cause the Company’s actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company: All risk factors discussed, unless otherwise noted, are presented without regard to the Company’s filing for bankruptcy protection. Risks Relating to the Company’s Business and the Industry The Company and its domestic subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and its Canadian subsidiaries will likely apply for court-supervised reorganization. As described in Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements and elsewhere in this 2008 10-K, the Company and its domestic subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions under Bankruptcy Code. Its Canadian subsidiaries will likely apply for court-supervised reorganization. These actions reflect the impact of the settlement of the dispute between the Company and CanWest and the substantial acceleration in revenue declines in 2008, both in the industry and for the Company, in combination with the negative outlook for the economy, continued negative operating results and cash flow for the Company and the general negative outlook for newspaper advertising and circulation in the near and long-term, as well as the Company’s substantial tax liabilities, which create substantial doubt as to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Currently, it is not possible to accurately predict the length of time the Company will operate under Chapter 11 and the supervision of the Bankruptcy Court, how long the Company may be able to continue operating, when or if the Company will file a plan or plans of reorganization or liquidation with the Bankruptcy Court, the outcome of the Chapter 11 proceedings, including the impact on the Company’s financial condition or the ultimate effect on the interests of the Company’s creditors and stakeholders. However, under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code and based on the amount and nature of the Company’s assets and liabilities, it is highly unlikely the Company’s common stock will retain any value or that stockholders will receive any distribution or consideration. The Company has substantial potential tax liabilities. The Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008 includes $608.0 million of accruals intended to cover contingent liabilities related to additional taxes and interest it may be required to pay, largely 11 Table of Contents related to the Company’s operations in the United States. The accruals cover contingent tax liabilities primarily related to items that have been deducted in arriving at taxable income, which deductions may be disallowed by taxing authorities. If those deductions were to be disallowed, the Company would be required to pay those accrued contingent taxes and interest and it may be subject to penalties. The Company will continue to record accruals for interest that it may be required to pay with respect to its contingent tax liabilities. Although the Company believes that it has defensible positions with respect to significant portions of these tax liabilities, there is a risk that the Company may be required to make payment of the full amount or a significant portion of such tax liabilities. There may be significant cash requirements in the future regarding these currently unresolved U.S. tax issues. Although the Company is attempting to resolve a significant portion of the contingent liabilities with the relevant taxing authorities, the timing and amounts of any payments the Company may be required to make remain uncertain. Although these accruals for contingent tax liabilities are reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets, if the Company were required to make payment of a significant portion of the amount, this would result in substantial cash payment obligations. The actual payment of such cash amount would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and ability to continue operations. In January 2008, the Company received an examination report from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) setting forth proposed adjustments to the Company’s U.S. income tax returns from 1996 through 2003. A significant portion of the Company’s contingent tax liabilities relate to these tax years. The Company has disputed certain of the proposed adjustments. The process for resolving disputes between the Company and the IRS is likely to entail various administrative and judicial proceedings, the timing and duration of which involve substantial uncertainties. As the disputes are resolved, it is possible that the Company will record adjustments to its financial statements that could be material to its financial position and results of operations and it may be required to make material cash payments. The timing and amounts of any payments the Company may be required to make are uncertain, but the Company does not anticipate that it will make any material cash payments to settle any of the disputed items during 2009. Competition in the newspaper industry originates from many sources. The advent of new technologies and industry practices, such as the provision of newspaper content on free Internet sites, may continue to result in decreased advertising and circulation revenue. Revenue in the newspaper industry is dependent primarily upon advertising revenue and paid circulation. Competition for advertising and circulation revenue comes from local and regional newspapers, radio, broadcast and cable television, direct mail and other communications and advertising media that operate in the Company’s markets. The extent and nature of such competition is, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets and the number of media alternatives in those markets. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. The Company may experience price competition from newspapers and other media sources in the future and one of the Company’s major competitors publishes a free publication that targets similar demographics to those that are particularly strong for some of the Company’s newspapers. In addition, the use of alternative means of delivery, such as free Internet sites, for news, advertising and other content has increased significantly in the past few years and has resulted in what may likely be permanent decline in advertising revenue for printed newspaper products. Should significant numbers of customers choose to receive content using these alternative delivery sources rather than the Company’s newspapers, the Company may suffer continued decreases in advertising revenue and may be forced to decrease the prices charged for the Company’s newspapers, make other changes in the way the Company operates or face a long-term decline in circulation, any or all of which are likely to harm the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s revenue is dependent upon economic conditions in the Company’s target markets and is seasonal. Advertising and circulation are the Company’s two primary sources of revenue. Historically, increases in advertising revenue have corresponded with economic recoveries while decreases have corresponded with general economic downturns and regional and local economic recessions. Advertising revenue is also dependent upon the condition of specific industries that contribute significantly to the Company’s advertising revenue, such as the automobile, real estate and retail industries whose recent significant downturn has negatively impacted classified 12 Table of Contents and other advertising revenue. If general economic conditions or economic conditions in these industries continue to deteriorate significantly, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue and results of operations. The Company’s advertising revenue also experiences seasonality, with the first quarter typically being the lowest. However, due to the decreasing revenue trends, advertising revenue for the third quarter of 2008 was slightly lower than the advertising revenue for the first quarter of 2008. In 2008, based on information accumulated by a third party from data submitted by Chicago area newspaper organizations, print advertising in the greater Chicago market declined approximately 17%, while the Company’s print advertising revenue declined approximately 16% versus the comparable 52 week period in 2007. The advertising revenue declines have accelerated in the third and fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 with a decline in the first quarter of approximately 30% versus the first quarter of 2008. The Company’s dependency on advertising sales, which generally have a short lead-time, means that the Company has only a limited ability to accurately predict future revenue and operating results. The recent bankruptcy filing may cause further declines as customers may be less willing to do business with a company in bankruptcy. This may be somewhat mitigated as the Company’s largest direct competitor has also filed for bankruptcy. The Company’s publications have experienced declines in circulation in the past and may do so in the future. Certain of the Company’s publications have experienced declines in circulation. Any significant declines in circulation the Company may experience at its publications could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations, particularly as it may negatively affect advertising revenue. The recent bankruptcy filing may cause further declines as customers may be less willing to do business with a company in bankruptcy. This may be somewhat mitigated as the Company’s largest direct competitor has also filed for bankruptcy. The Company has implemented cost saving strategies that have not and may not result in profitability. In December 2007, the Company announced that its Board of Directors adopted a plan to reduce annual operating costs by $50 million. The plan, implemented during 2008, included $10 million of expected annual savings previously announced in connection with the Company’s distribution agreement with Chicago Tribune Company and the consolidation of two of the Company’s suburban newspapers. In November 2008, the Company announced a second cost reduction program of $45 million to $55 million that was planned to be implemented during 2009. The implementation of these strategies requires a reduction in full-time staffing levels, re-deployment of staff to Internet and other initiatives, reorganizing the sales function to strengthen the pursuit of Internet revenue, sales of assets and the outsourcing of certain functions. While the strategy is intended to have long-term benefits for the Company, there is no guarantee that the strategy will offset declines in revenue or bring the Company back to profitability. The timing and extent of actions within the strategy may also be materially altered by the Filings. The Company may not be able to realize the value of certain investments at their carrying value. On August 21, 2007, $25.0 million of the Company’s investments in Canadian asset-backed commercial paper (“Canadian CP”) held through a Canadian subsidiary matured but were not redeemed and on August 24, 2007, $23.0 million of similar investments matured but were not redeemed. As of December 31, 2007, the Company held $48.2 million of Canadian CP, including accrued interest through original maturity. The Canadian CP held by the Company was issued by two special purpose entities sponsored by non-bank entities. The Canadian CP was not redeemed at maturity due to the combination of a collapse in demand for Canadian CP and the refusal of the back-up lenders to fund the redemption on the grounds that these events did not constitute events that would trigger a redemption obligation. On May 9, 2008, the Company sold $28.0 million (face amount, plus accrued interest) of its Canadian CP investments that were issued by one of the special purpose entities for $21.0 million and at December 31, 2008, the Company held $20.2 million (face amount, plus accrued interest) of Canadian CP with a carrying value, following impairment charges, of $7.4 million. Due to uncertainties in the timing as to when these investments will be sold or otherwise liquidated, the Canadian CP is classified as a noncurrent asset included in “Investments” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. 13 Table of Contents Efforts to restructure the Canadian CP that remained unredeemed were undertaken by a largely Canadian investor committee. On December 23, 2007, the investor committee announced that an agreement in principle had been reached to restructure the Canadian CP, whereby the Canadian CP would be exchanged for medium term notes (“MTN’s”), backed by the assets underlying the Canadian CP, having a maturity that will generally match the maturity of the underlying assets. The agreement in principle called for $11.1 million of the MTN’s the Company would receive to be backed by a pool of assets that are generally similar to those backing the Canadian CP held by the Company and which were originally held by a number of special purpose entities, while the remaining $9.1 million of the MTN’s the Company would receive would be backed by assets held by the specific special purpose entity that originally issued the Canadian CP. The agreement in principle was finalized and the investor committee filed a proposed restructuring plan (the “Plan”) under the CCAA with the Ontario Superior Court of Justice (the “Court”) on March 17, 2008. Under the Plan, the allocation of the MTN’s was modified to $9.6 million backed by a pool of assets and $10.6 million backed by specific assets. The Plan was approved by the holders of the Canadian CP on April 25, 2008, and sanctioned by the Court on June 5, 2008. On January 12, 2009, the Court approved the Plan, which was fully implemented on January 21, 2009. The Canadian CP has not traded in an active market since mid-August 2007 and there are currently no market quotations available. On March 19, 2008, Dominion Bond Rating Service withdrew its ratings of the Canadian CP. The Company has employed a valuation model to estimate the fair value for the $9.6 million of MTN’s backed by the pool of assets. The valuation model used by the Company to estimate the fair value for this portion of the MTN’s incorporates discounted cash flows, the best available information regarding market conditions and other factors that a market participant would consider for such investments. The fair value (and carrying value at December 31, 2008) of the $7.4 million of Canadian CP (and replacement MTN’s backed by specific assets) was estimated through the use of a model relying on market data and inputs derived from securities similar to the MTN’s. This model was also used during prior periods to estimate the fair value of the $28.0 million of Canadian CP that the Company sold on May 9, 2008. The Company believes the valuation model provides a better estimate of fair value than the thinly traded, distressed market for the MTN’s issued to replace the Canadian CP in January 2009. During 2007, the Company’s valuation resulted in an impairment charge and reduction of $12.2 million to the estimated fair value of the $48.2 million (face amount plus accrued interest) in Canadian CP. During 2008, the Company’s valuation resulted in an additional impairment charge of $8.7 million on $20.2 million (face amount plus accrued interest) of the Canadian CP. The Company recorded a gain on sale of $1.1 million during 2008 related to the Canadian CP sold on May 9, 2008 for $21.0 million. Continuing uncertainties regarding the value of the assets which underlie the MTN’s, the amount and timing of cash flows, the actual yield of the MTN’s, whether an active market will develop for the MTN’s and other factors could give rise to a further change in the value of the Company’s investment, which could materially impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As part of the CanWest settlement, the Company transferred certain asset-backed commercial paper, making up approximately $5.6 million in face value (of the Company’s $20.2 million) of Canadian CP, to a third party. The asset-backed commercial paper that was transferred had a carrying value of $nil at December 31, 2008. See Item 3 “— Legal Proceedings — CanWest Arbitration.” The Company’s senior management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from the Filings and the sale process. The efforts of the current management team and the Board of Directors to manage the Company’s business and ongoing cost reduction plan may be hindered at times by the resource requirements of the Filings and their need to spend significant time and effort in connection with the process for a sale of the Company’s assets pursuant to Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code conducted by Rothschild. To the extent the management team and the Board of Directors will be required to devote significant attention to these matters in the future, this may have an adverse effect on operations. 14 Table of Contents The outsourcing of significant business processes may expose the Company to significant financial and customer service risk. The Company has outsourced distribution to the Chicago Tribune Company and has entered into agreements to outsource advertising production and other key operational processes. There can be no assurance that the Chicago Tribune Company will emerge from bankruptcy or that it will have sufficient resources to adequately service the Company following bankruptcy. The Company is pursuing additional outsourcing arrangements in a number of areas important to its business. In the event the providers of these services were to provide less than adequate service levels or cease operations, the Company could experience a substantial impact on its service levels, results of operations and financial condition as it sought to contract with a replacement provider (or providers) or re-establish internal capabilities to replace one or more outsource providers. Sun-Times Media Group, Inc. is a holding company and relies on its subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. Sun-Times Media Group, Inc. is a holding company and its assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries and affiliated companies. Sun-Times Media Group, Inc. relies on distributions from subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. Sun-Times Media Group, Inc.’s ability to meet its future financial obligations is dependent upon the availability of cash flows from its subsidiaries through dividends and intercompany advances. Sun-Times Media Group Inc.’s subsidiaries and affiliated companies are under no obligation to pay dividends and, in the case of Publishing and its principal domestic and foreign subsidiaries, are subject to certain statutory restrictions and may become subject to restrictions in future debt agreements that limit their ability to pay dividends. This risk has increased as a result of the Filings. Due to funding requirements in Canada, cash held by the Company’s Canadian subsidiaries ($29.9 million at December 31, 2008) is not available to fund U.S. operations. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is not effective as of December 31, 2008 and weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s management concluded that material weaknesses existed in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. See Item 9A “— Controls and Procedures.” Current management has taken steps to correct internal control deficiencies and weaknesses during and subsequent to 2008 and believes that the Company’s internal controls and procedures have strengthened. However, it is possible that the Company may not be able to remediate all material weaknesses by December 31, 2009. The Company may experience labor disputes, which could slow down or halt production or distribution of the Company’s newspapers or other publications. Approximately 43% of the Company’s employees are represented by labor unions. Those employees are mostly covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements which are regularly renewable, including agreements covering approximately 10% of union employees that are renewable in 2009. A work stoppage or strike may occur prior to the expiration of the current labor agreements or during negotiations of new labor agreements or extensions of existing labor agreements. The Filings and the Company’s request to obtain wage and other concessions from the unions could increase this risk. Work stoppages or other labor-related developments could slow down or halt production or distribution of the newspapers, which would adversely affect results of operations. Newsprint represents the Company’s single largest raw material expense and changes in the price of newsprint could affect net income. Newsprint represents the Company’s single largest raw material expense and is the most significant operating cost other than employee costs. In 2008, newsprint costs represented approximately 14% of revenue. Newsprint prices vary widely from time to time and increased approximately 16% during 2008. If newsprint prices increase in the future and the Company is unable to pass these costs on to customers, such increases may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Although the Company has, in the past, implemented 15 Table of Contents measures in an attempt to offset increases in newsprint prices, such as reducing page sizes where practical and managing waste through technology enhancements, newsprint price increases have in the past had a material adverse effect on the Company and may do so in the future. All of the Company’s operations are concentrated in one geographic area. All of the Company’s revenue and business activities are concentrated in the greater Chicago metropolitan area. As a result, the Company’s revenue is heavily dependent on economic and competitive factors affecting the greater Chicago metropolitan area. Pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is currently involved, either as plaintiff or as defendant, in several lawsuits, including purported class actions brought by stockholders against it, certain former executive officers and certain of its former directors, Hollinger Inc., The Ravelston Corporation Limited (“Ravelston”) and other affiliated entities and several suits and counterclaims brought by Black and/or Hollinger Inc. In addition, Black has commenced libel actions against certain of the Company’s current and former directors, officers and advisors to whom the Company has indemnification obligations. See Item 3 “— Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. Several of these actions remain in preliminary stages and it is not yet possible to determine their ultimate outcome. The Company cannot provide assurance that the legal and other costs associated with the defense of all of these actions, the amount of time required to be spent by management and the Board of Directors in these matters and the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Subject to certain exceptions under the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors’ Filings automatically enjoined the continuation of any judicial or administrative proceedings against the Debtors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 