Risk Factors Certain statements contained in this report under various sections, including but not limited to “Business Strategy” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See “Forward Looking Statements.” Such statements are subject to the following important factors, among others, which in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company’s actual results and could cause the Company’s actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company: Risks Relating to the Company’s Business and the Industry The Company has substantial potential tax liabilities. The Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006 includes $990.8 million of accruals intended to cover contingent liabilities related to additional taxes and interest it may be required to pay in various tax jurisdictions. A substantial portion of these accruals relate to the tax treatment of gains on the sale of a portion of the Company’s non-U.S. operations in prior years. The accruals to cover contingent tax liabilities also relate to management fees, “non-competition” payments and other items that have been deducted in arriving at taxable income, which deductions may be disallowed by taxing authorities. If the tax treatment of the gains was to be revised or if those deductions were to be disallowed, the Company would be required to pay those accrued contingent taxes and interest and it may be subject to penalties. The Company will continue to record accruals for interest that it may be required to pay with respect to its contingent tax liabilities. Although the Company believes that it has defensible positions with respect to significant portions of these tax liabilities, there is a risk that the Company may be required to make payment of the full amount or a significant portion of such tax liabilities. There may be significant cash requirements in the future regarding these currently unresolved U.S. and foreign tax issues. Although the Company is attempting to resolve a significant portion of the contingent liabilities with the relevant taxing authorities, the timing and amounts of any payments the Company may be required to make remain uncertain. Although these accruals for contingent tax liabilities are reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet, if the Company were required to make payment of a significant portion of the amount, this would result in substantial cash payment obligations. The actual payment of such cash amount could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and on the Company’s ability to borrow funds. The Company is attempting to resolve a significant portion of the contingent liabilities with the relevant taxing authorities. However, the timing and amounts of any payments the Company may be required to make remain uncertain. Efforts to resolve or settle certain of these tax issues could be successful in 2007. In such an event, a 12 Table of Contents substantial portion of the Company’s cash balances, as reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2006, could be utilized to fund such resolution or settlement. The Company has substantial accruals for tax contingencies in a foreign jurisdiction; if payments are required, a portion may be paid with funds denominated in U.S. dollars. The Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2006 includes $605.3 million of accruals for tax contingencies in a foreign jurisdiction. The accruals are denominated in a foreign currency and translated into U.S. dollars at the period-end currency exchange rate effective as of each balance sheet date. If the Company were required to make payments with respect to such tax contingencies, it may be necessary for the Company to transfer U.S. dollar-denominated funds to its foreign subsidiaries to fund such payments. The amount of U.S. dollar-denominated funds that may need to be transferred also will depend upon the ultimate amount that is payable to the foreign jurisdiction and the currency exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the foreign currency at the time or times such funds might be transferred. The Company cannot predict future currency exchange rates. Changes in the exchange rate could have a material effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows particularly as it relates to the extent and timing of any transfers of funds. Competition in the newspaper industry originates from many sources. The advent of new technologies and industry practices, such as the provision of newspaper content on free Internet sites, may continue to result in decreased advertising and circulation revenue. Revenue in the newspaper industry is dependent primarily upon advertising revenue and paid circulation. Competition for advertising and circulation revenue comes from local and regional newspapers, radio, broadcast and cable television, direct mail and other communications and advertising media that operate in the Company’s markets. The extent and nature of such competition is, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets and the number of media alternatives in those markets. Some of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. The Company may experience price competition from newspapers and other media sources in the future. In addition, one of the Company’s competitors publishes a free publication that targets similar demographics to those that are particularly strong for some of the Company’s newspapers. In addition, the use of alternative means of delivery, such as free Internet sites, for news and other content has increased significantly in the past few years. Should significant numbers of customers choose to receive content using these alternative delivery sources rather than the Company’s newspapers, the Company may suffer decreases in advertising revenue and may be forced to decrease the prices charged for the Company’s newspapers, make other changes in the way the Company operates or face a long-term decline in circulation, any or all of which are likely to harm the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s revenue is dependent upon economic conditions in the Company’s target markets and is seasonal. Advertising and circulation are the Company’s two primary sources of revenue. Historically, increases in advertising revenue have corresponded with economic recoveries while decreases have corresponded with general economic downturns and regional and local economic recessions. Advertising revenue is also dependent upon the condition of specific industries that contribute significantly to the Company’s advertising revenue, such as the automobile industry, whose recent downturn has negatively impacted advertising revenue. If general economic conditions or economic conditions in these industries deteriorate significantly, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue and results of operations. The Company’s advertising revenue also experiences seasonality, with the first quarter typically being the lowest. However, due to the decreasing revenue trend in 2006, advertising revenue for the third quarter of 2006 was slightly lower than the advertising revenue for the first quarter of 2006. In 2006, based on information accumulated by a third party from data submitted by Chicago area newspaper organizations, print advertising in the greater Chicago market declined approximately 5%, while the Company’s print advertising revenue declined approximately 10% for the comparable period. The Company’s dependency on advertising sales, which generally have a short lead-time, means that the Company has only a limited ability to accurately predict future revenue and operating results. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s publications have experienced declines in circulation in the past and may do so in the future. Certain of the Company’s publications have experienced declines in circulation. Any significant declines in circulation the Company may experience at its publications could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations, particularly on advertising revenue. Significant declines in circulation could result in an impairment of the value of the Company’s intangible assets, which could also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position. The Company has implemented a reorganization and centralization that may have an adverse effect on operations and sales. The Company has implemented a reorganization of its operations in the Chicago market designed to centralize and streamline its sales, production and distribution processes. The implementation of this reorganization has required the dedication of significant resources and management time. While the reorganization is intended to have long-term benefits for the Company, in the shorter term the Company may experience disruption in its operations and loss of sales and market share as a result of the implementation of the reorganization. The Company is a holding company and relies on the Company’s subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. The Company is a holding company and its assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries and affiliated companies. The Company relies on distributions from subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. The Company’s ability to meet its future financial obligations is dependent upon the availability of cash flows from its subsidiaries through dividends and intercompany advances. The Company’s subsidiaries and affiliated companies are under no obligation to pay dividends and, in the case of Publishing and its principal domestic and foreign subsidiaries, are subject to certain statutory restrictions and may become subject to restrictions in future debt agreements that limit their ability to pay dividends. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting is not effective as of December 31, 2006 and weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s management concluded that material weaknesses existed in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. See Item 9A “— Controls and Procedures.” The SEC, in its complaint filed with the federal court in Illinois on November 15, 2004 naming Lord Conrad M. Black of Crossharbour (“Black”), F. David Radler (“Radler”) and Hollinger Inc. as defendants, alleges that Black, Radler and Hollinger Inc. were liable for the Company’s failure to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that transactions were recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) from at least 1999 through at least 2003. The SEC also alleges that Black, Radler and Hollinger Inc., directly and indirectly, falsified or caused to be falsified, books, records, and accounts of the Company in order to conceal their self-dealing from the Company’s public stockholders. Current management has taken steps to correct internal control deficiencies and weaknesses during and subsequent to 2006 and believes that the Company’s internal controls and procedures have strengthened. However, it is possible that the Company may not be able to remediate all deficiencies and material weaknesses by December 31, 2007. The Company may experience labor disputes, which could slow down or halt production or distribution of the Company’s newspapers or other publications. Approximately 37% of the Company’s employees are represented by labor unions. Those employees are mostly covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements which are regularly renewable, including agreements covering approximately 59% of union employees that are renewable in 2007. A work stoppage or strike may 14 Table of Contents occur prior to the expiration of the current labor agreements or during negotiations of new labor agreements or extensions of existing labor agreements. Work stoppages or other labor-related developments could slow down or halt production or distribution of the newspapers, which would adversely affect results of operations. Overstatement of circulation figures in the past may result in the loss of advertisers in the future. In 2004, the Audit Committee announced the results of an internal review into circulation at certain of its newspapers. The internal review revealed that circulation figures for the Chicago Sun-Times, Daily Southtown and Star newspapers had been overstated. Following the release of this information by the Audit Committee, the ABC announced sanctions against the affected publications, including the withdrawal by ABC of previously published circulation audits and unofficial “publisher’s statements” of circulation. In addition, ABC imposed on the affected publications a schedule of semi-annual circulation audits for a two year period in lieu of a standard annual audit cycle. As a result of the overstatement of circulation, lawsuits were filed against the Company, which were settled in 2006. See Item 3 “— Legal Proceedings — The Chicago Sun-Times Circulation Cases.” A significant portion of the Company’s revenue is derived from the sale of advertising in the Chicago Sun-Times and its sister publications. Should certain advertisers decide not to advertise with the Chicago Sun-Times in the future as a result of past circulation overstatements, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Newsprint represents the Company’s single largest raw material expense and changes in the price of newsprint could affect net income. Newsprint represents the Company’s single largest raw material expense and is the most significant operating cost other than employee costs. In 2006, newsprint costs represented approximately 15% of revenue. Newsprint prices vary widely from time to time and increased approximately 12% during 2006. If newsprint prices remain at current levels or increase in the future and the Company is unable to pass these costs on to customers, such increases may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Although the Company has, in the past, implemented measures in an attempt to offset a rise in newsprint prices, such as reducing page width where practical and managing waste through technology enhancements, newsprint price increases have in the past had a material adverse effect on the Company and may do so in the future. All of the Company’s operations are concentrated in one geographic area. With the sale of the Telegraph Group in July 2004, The Jerusalem Post in December 2004, and the Canadian newspapers in late 2005 and early 2006, all of the Company’s revenue and business activities are concentrated in the greater Chicago metropolitan area. As a result, the Company’s revenue is heavily dependent on economic and competitive factors affecting the greater Chicago metropolitan area. Risks Relating to Control and Improper Conduct by Controlling Stockholder The Company’s controlling stockholder may cause actions to be taken that are not supported by the Company’s Board of Directors or management and which might not be in the best interests of the Company’s other stockholders. The Company is controlled by Hollinger Inc. Through its controlling interest, Hollinger Inc. is able to determine the outcome of all matters that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of the Company’s charter, adoption or amendment of bylaws and approval of significant corporate transactions. Hollinger Inc. can also have a significant influence over decisions affecting the Company’s capital structure, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness. On April 20, 2005, Ravelston, which is the controlling stockholder of Hollinger Inc., filed for protection from its creditors under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act (Canada) (the “CCAA”). In conjunction with that filing, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice appointed a receiver of Ravelston’s assets. Prior to the appointment of the receiver, Hollinger Inc. and the Company were indirectly controlled by Black, a former Director, Chairman and CEO of the Company, through his personal control of Ravelston. 15 Table of Contents As more fully described in its Report, the Special Committee concluded that during the period from at least 1997 to at least 2003, Black, in breach of his fiduciary duties as a controlling stockholder and officer and director, used his control over the affairs of the Company to divert cash and other assets from the Company and to conceal his actions from the Company’s public stockholders. The SEC, in its complaint filed with the federal court in Illinois on November 15, 2004, alleges that certain of the acts and omissions of Black violated federal securities laws in several respects in the period from at least 1999 to at least 2003. In addition, the Delaware Chancery Court found that during the period from November 2003 to early 2004, Black breached his fiduciary and contractual duties “persistently and seriously” in connection with the Company’s exploration of alternative strategic transactions, and purported to adopt bylaws “disabling the Board of Directors from protecting the Company from his wrongful acts.” On January 16, 2004, the Company consented to the entry of a partial judgment and order of permanent injunction (the “Court Order”) against the Company in an action brought by the SEC in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois (the “January 2004 SEC Action”). The Court Order, among other things, requires the Company to comply with its undertaking to allow the Special Committee to complete its work and provides for the appointment of Richard C. Breeden (“Breeden”) as a special monitor (“Special Monitor”) of the Company under certain circumstances. In February 2004, the Company adopted a Shareholders Rights Plan (“SRP”), which is designed to prevent a third party from acquiring, directly or indirectly, without the approval of the Company’s Board of Directors, a beneficial interest in the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock that represents over 20% of the outstanding voting power of the Company. Following the appointment by the Ontario Superior Court of Justice in April 2005 of RSM Richter Inc. (the “Receiver”) as receiver and monitor of all assets of Ravelston and certain affiliated entities (collectively such entities, the “Ravelston Entities”) that own, directly or indirectly, or exercise control or direction over, approximately 78.3% of Hollinger Inc.’s common stock and the subsequent amendment of the SRP to designate the Receiver as an “exempt stockholder”, the Receiver took possession and control over those Hollinger Inc. shares on or around June 1, 2005. The Receiver stated that it took possession and control over those shares for the purposes of carrying out its responsibilities as court appointed officer. As a result of the Receiver’s control over those shares, and subject to the outcome of the proceedings under the CCAA in Canada, Black’s ability to exercise control over Hollinger Inc., and indirectly the Company, has been effectively eliminated. See Item 3 “— Legal Proceedings — Receivership and CCAA Proceedings in Canada Involving the Ravelston Entities.” On January 24, 2006, at the Company’s 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, Hollinger Inc. nominated two of its directors to serve as directors of the Company. As a result of Hollinger Inc.’s controlling interest, the two nominees were elected to the Company’s Board of Directors. Since these nominees were not endorsed by the Company’s Board of Directors, Breeden became Special Monitor of the Company pursuant to the Court Order, which provides for Breeden’s appointment in the event of the nomination or election to the Board of Directors of any individual without the support of at least 80% of incumbent Board members. The Special Monitor’s mandate is to protect the interests of the non-controlling stockholders of the Company to the extent permitted by law, to prevent the dissipation of assets of the Company, to investigate possible illegal or improper conduct by the Company or any of its current or former officers, directors, employees and agents, to recover property of the Company and to assert claims on behalf of the Company based upon his investigation, and he is authorized to take any steps he deems necessary to fulfill his mandate. On July 13, 2006, at the request of the Company’s Board of Directors following the instigation of certain litigation by Hollinger Inc. against the Company, the two Hollinger Inc. nominees submitted their resignations from the Company’s Board of Directors. However, Breeden continues to serve as Special Monitor of the Company. Restrictions imposed on the Company by the Special Monitor, although intended to protect the interests of the public stockholders of the Company, could also have, at least in the near term, an adverse effect on operations. In a Schedule 13D filing with the SEC on February 14, 2007, Hollinger Inc. stated that it was considering proposing changes to the Company’s Board of Directors (other than with respect to the Special Committee), including nominating one or more members to the Company’s Board of Directors and voting all of its shares of our common stock in favor of such nominee or nominees, which would result in the election of such nominee or nominees to the Company’s Board of Directors. 16 Table of Contents Although the various protections sought and/or approved by the Company have been designed, or otherwise serve, to prevent Hollinger Inc. and Black from engaging again in activities similar to those detailed by the Special Committee, there can be no assurance that they will remain in place or will not be modified or vacated in the future. If any of these events were to occur, there is a risk that Ravelston and Hollinger Inc. will again use their control over the affairs of the Company to take actions detrimental to the non-controlling stockholders of the Company. The Company may face interference by its controlling stockholder that will prevent it from recovering on its claims. The Company, through the Special Committee, has commenced litigation against its controlling stockholder, Hollinger Inc., as well as against other former officers and former directors of the Company and certain entities affiliated with some of these parties. There is a risk that Hollinger Inc. could exercise its control in a manner intended to thwart or obstruct the efforts of the Company and the Special Committee in pursuing these claims and that the Company may not fully recover on its claims. Even without such interference, there can be no assurance that the Company will prevail on its claims and damages allegations, or that it will be able to collect money from any judgment it may obtain against Hollinger Inc. and its co-defendants. The results of ongoing SEC investigations may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company has received various subpoenas and requests from the SEC and other government agencies in the United States and Canada seeking the production of documentation in connection with various investigations into the Company’s governance, management and operations. The Company is cooperating fully with these investigations and continues to comply with these requests. See Item 3 “— Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these investigations. On January 16, 2004, the Company consented to the entry of the Court Order against it in the January 2004 SEC Action. The Court Order, among other things, enjoins the Company from violating certain provisions of the Exchange Act, including the requirements to file accurate annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and keep accurate books and records. As part of the Court Order, the Company agreed that the SEC has the right to amend its complaint in the January 2004 SEC Action to assert that the conduct alleged in such action also violated other federal securities laws, including the anti-fraud provisions of the Exchange Act, and to add allegations of other conduct the SEC believes to have violated federal securities laws. The Company cannot predict when these government investigations will be completed, nor can the Company predict what the outcome of these investigations may be. It is possible that the Company will be required to pay material amounts in disgorgement, interest and/or fines, consent to or be subject to additional court orders or injunctions, or suffer other sanctions, each of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. Pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is currently involved, either as plaintiff or as defendant, in several lawsuits, including purported class actions brought by stockholders against it, certain former executive officers and certain of its former directors, Hollinger Inc., Ravelston and other affiliated entities and several suits and counterclaims brought by Black and/or Hollinger Inc. In addition, Black has commenced libel actions against certain of the Company’s current and former directors, officers and advisors to whom the Company has indemnification obligations. See Item 3 “— Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. Several of these actions remain in preliminary stages and it is not yet possible to determine their ultimate outcome. The Company cannot provide assurance that the legal and other costs associated with the defense of all of these actions, the amount of time required to be spent by management and the Board of Directors in these matters and the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s senior management team is required to devote significant attention to matters arising from actions of prior management. The efforts of the current senior management team and Board of Directors to manage the Company’s business have been hindered at times by their need to spend significant time and effort to resolve issues inherited from and 17 Table of Contents arising from the conduct of the direct and indirect controlling stockholders and the prior senior management team put in place by them. To the extent the senior management team and the Board of Directors will be required to devote significant attention to these matters in the future, this may have, at least in the near term, an adverse effect on operations. There could be a change of control of the Company through a change in control of Hollinger Inc. under circumstances not approved by the independent directors of the Company. Hollinger Inc. and Ravelston may be limited in their ability to sell their direct and indirect voting control in the Company to third parties because of the terms of the Company’s SRP. In addition, the Receiver is restricted in its ability to sell beneficial ownership of shares of Hollinger Inc. pursuant to the terms of the Receiver’s mandate and the CCAA proceedings in Canada involving the Ravelston Entities. The Receiver’s general restriction of sale is subject to a limited exception agreed to by the Company and the Receiver pursuant to which the Receiver may sell a limited amount of Hollinger Inc. shares to cover costs and expenses of the receivership. If Hollinger Inc. and Ravelston were not restricted in their ability to sell their beneficial controlling interest in the Company, and they chose to make such a sale, such a sale could result in a change of control of the Company under circumstances not approved by the independent directors of the Company. The SRP is designed to prevent any third party from acquiring, directly or indirectly, without the approval of the Company’s Board of Directors, a beneficial interest in the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock that represents over 20% of the outstanding voting power of the Company. Through its ownership of all outstanding Class B Common Stock, Hollinger Inc. currently controls approximately 70.1% of the Company’s outstanding voting power, which ownership is excluded from triggering the provisions of the SRP. However, a transaction resulting in a change of control in Hollinger Inc., without the approval of the Company’s Board of Directors, would have the effect of triggering the SRP. The SRP has been amended to allow for the appointment of the Receiver in respect of the Ravelston Entities, but not for the sale by the Receiver of the Ravelston Entities’ controlling stake in Hollinger Inc. to a third party. The Company is unable to determine what impact, if any, a change of control may have on the Company’s corporate governance or operations. See “The Company’s controlling stockholder may cause actions to be taken that are not supported by the Company’s Board of Directors or management and which might not be in the best interests of the Company’s other stockholders” above. The Company is a party to a Business Opportunities Agreement with Hollinger Inc., the terms of which limit the Company’s ability to pursue certain business opportunities in certain countries. An agreement between Hollinger Inc. and the Company dated February 7, 1996 sets forth the terms under which Hollinger Inc. and the Company will resolve conflicts over business opportunities (the “Business Opportunities Agreement”). The Company and Hollinger Inc. agreed to allocate to the Company opportunities relating to the start-up, acquisition, development and operation of newspaper businesses and related media businesses in the United States, Israel, the United Kingdom and other member states of the European Union, Australia and New Zealand and to allocate to Hollinger Inc. opportunities relating to the start-up, acquisition, development and operation of media businesses, other than related media businesses, globally and newspaper businesses and related media businesses in Canada. For purposes of the agreement, “newspaper business” means the business of publishing and distributing newspapers, magazines and other paid or free publications having national, local or targeted markets, “media business” means the business of broadcast of radio, television, cable and satellite programs, and “related media business” means any media business that is an affiliate of, or is owned or operated in conjunction with, a newspaper business. The terms of the Business Opportunities Agreement will be in effect for so long as Hollinger Inc. holds at least 50% of the Company’s voting power. The Business Opportunities Agreement may have the effect of preventing the Company from pursuing business opportunities that the Company’s management would have otherwise pursued. 18 Table of Contents If Hollinger Inc. sought protection from its creditors or became the subject of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings there may be harm to, and there may be a change of control of, the Company. Hollinger Inc. has publicly stated that it owns, directly or indirectly 782,923 shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and 14,990,000 shares of the Company’s Class B Common Stock (which represent all of the issued and outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock). All of the direct and indirect interest of Hollinger Inc. in the shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock is being held in escrow with a licensed trust company in support of future retractions of Hollinger Inc.’s Series II Preference Shares and all of the direct and indirect interest of Hollinger Inc. in the shares of the Company’s Class B Common Stock is pledged as security in connection with Hollinger Inc.’s outstanding 117/8% Senior Secured Notes due 2011 and 117/8% Second Priority Secured Notes due 2011. Hollinger Inc. has reported that $78.0 million principal amount of the Senior Secured Notes and $15.0 million principal amount of the Second Priority Secured Notes are outstanding. Under the terms of the Series II Preference Shares of Hollinger Inc., each Preference Share may be retracted by its holder for 0.46 of a share of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. Until the Series II Preference Shares are retracted in accordance with their terms, Hollinger Inc. may exercise the economic and voting rights attached to the underlying shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. Hollinger Inc. has relied on payments from Ravelston to fund its operating losses and service its debt obligations. Ravelston financed its support of Hollinger Inc., in part, from the management fees received from the Company under the terms of the management services agreement with RMI. The Company terminated this agreement effective June 1, 2004. In April 2005, the Ravelston Entities sought protection from their creditors in the CCAA proceedings and the Receiver was appointed by the Ontario Superior Court of Justice as receiver and monitor of all assets of the Ravelston Entities. On August 1, 2005, Hollinger Inc. commenced a change of control tender offer to purchase any and all of its outstanding Senior Secured Notes and Second Priority Secured Notes. On September 6, 2005, Hollinger Inc. announced that no notes were tendered pursuant to the change of control tender offer. The offer was prompted by the Receiver’s having taken control over the common shares of Hollinger Inc. held directly or indirectly by the Ravelston Entities, which may constitute a change of control under the indentures governing the notes. If Hollinger Inc. or any of its subsidiaries that own shares of Class A or Class B Common Stock of the Company were also to commence proceedings to restructure its indebtedness in a CCAA proceeding, or became the subject of an insolvency or liquidation proceeding under the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act (Canada) or enforcement proceedings by the pledgee, the collectibility of amounts owed by Hollinger Inc. to the Company may be negatively impacted. In any such proceedings, issues may arise in connection with any transfer or attempted transfer of shares of the Company’s Class B Common Stock. Under the terms of the Company’s certificate of incorporation, such transfers may constitute a non-permitted transfer. In the event of a non-permitted transfer, the Class B Common Stock would automatically convert into Class A Common Stock as a result of which the controlling voting rights currently assigned to the Class B Common Stock would be eliminated. There is a risk that this result would be challenged in court by Hollinger Inc. or its insolvency representatives. In an insolvency or secured creditor enforcement proceeding, the ownership rights, including voting rights, attached to the shares of the Company’s Class A and Class B Common Stock would be exercised with a view to maximizing value for the secured creditors and other stakeholders of Hollinger Inc. Since the interests of secured creditors and other stakeholders of Hollinger Inc. may not be aligned with the interests of the Company’s public stockholders, actions might be taken that are not in the best interests of the Company’s public stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 19 Table of Contents 