Item 1A. Risk FactorsAn investment in the Company's common stock involves certain risks. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company’s business, financial condition and future results.The continued challenging economic environment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations or the market price of stock.The national economy, and the financial services sector in particular, are still facing significant challenges. Substantially all of the Company’s loans are to businesses and individuals in Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado and Washington markets facing many of the same challenges as the national economy, including continued unemployment and slow recovery in commercial and residential real estate. Although some economic indicators are improving both nationally and in the Company’s markets, there remains substantial uncertainty regarding when and how strongly a sustained economic recovery will occur, and whether there will be another recession. These economic conditions can cause borrowers to be unable to pay their loans. The inability of borrowers to repay loans can erode earnings by reducing net interest income and by requiring the Company to add to its allowance for loan and lease losses (“ALLL” or “allowance”). While the Company cannot accurately predict how long these conditions may exist, the challenging economy could continue to present risks for some time for the industry and Company. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the nation as a whole or in the Company’s markets could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which may be material, on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of the Company’s stock to decline:•loan delinquencies may increase;•problem assets and foreclosures may increase;•collateral for loans made may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans and increasing the potential severity of loss in the event of loan defaults;•demand for banking products and services may decline; and•low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease.The allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect earnings.The Company maintains an allowance in an amount that it believes is adequate to provide for losses in the loan portfolio. While the Company strives to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem loans. With respect to real estate loans and property taken in satisfaction of such loans (“other real estate owned” or “OREO”), the Company can be required to recognize significant declines in the value of the underlying real estate collateral or OREO quite suddenly as values are updated through appraisals and evaluations (new or updated) performed in the normal course of monitoring the credit quality of the loans. There are many factors that can cause the value of real estate to decline, including declines in the general real estate market, changes in methodology applied by appraisers, and/or using a different appraiser than was used for the prior appraisal or evaluation. The Company’s ability to recover on real estate loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining values, which increases the likelihood the Company will suffer losses on defaulted loans beyond the amounts provided for in the ALLL. This, in turn, could require material increases in the Company’s provision for loan losses and ALLL. By closely monitoring credit quality, the Company attempts to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets and adjust the ALLL accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, and if difficult economic conditions continue or worsen, there may be loans that deteriorate to a non-performing status in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the ALLL may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans, requiring an increase to the ALLL. Additionally, future significant additions to the ALLL may be required based on changes in the mix of loans comprising the portfolio, changes in the financial condition of borrowers, which may result from changes in economic conditions, or changes in the assumptions used in determining the ALLL. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the Company’s loan portfolio and the adequacy of the ALLL. These regulatory agencies may require the Company to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from the Company’s judgments. Any increase in the ALLL would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate, so any further deterioration in the real estate markets could require material increases in the ALLL and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company has a high degree of concentration in loans secured by real estate. A sluggish recovery in the real estate markets could adversely impact borrowers' ability to repay loans secured by real estate and the value of real estate collateral, thereby increasing the credit risk associated with the loan portfolio. The Company's ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining real estate values, which increases the likelihood that the Company will suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the ALLL. This, in turn, could require material increases in the ALLL which would adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially.10Table of ContentsThere can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue paying dividends on the common stock at recent levels.The Company declared dividends of $0.53 per share in 2012 and declared dividends of $0.52 per share in 2011. The Company may not be able to continue paying quarterly dividends commensurate with recent levels given that the ability to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock depends on a variety of factors. The payment of dividends is subject to government regulation in that regulatory authorities may prohibit banks and bank holding companies from paying dividends that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Current guidance from the Federal Reserve provides, among other things, that dividends per share should not exceed earnings per share measured over the previous four fiscal quarters. The Bank is also subject to Montana state law and cannot declare a dividend greater than the previous two years' net earnings without providing notice to the state. As a result, future dividends will generally depend on the sufficiency of earnings. The Company may not be able to continue to grow organically or through acquisitions.Historically, the Company has expanded through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. If market and regulatory conditions remain challenging, the Company may be unable to grow organically or successfully complete or integrate potential future acquisitions. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company can successfully complete such transactions, since they are subject to regulatory review and approval.The expiration of unlimited FDIC insurance on certain noninterest-bearing transaction accounts may increase the Company's interest expense and reduce liquidity.On December 31, 2012, unlimited FDIC insurance on certain noninterest-bearing transaction accounts under the Transaction Account Guarantee (“TAG”) program expired. Prior to its expiration, all funds under TAG in a noninterest-bearing transaction account were insured in full by the FDIC from December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012. This temporary unlimited coverage was in addition to, and separate from, the coverage of at least $250,000 available to depositors under the FDIC's general deposit insurance rules. The reduction in FDIC insurance on these noninterest-bearing transaction accounts to the standard $250,000 maximum may cause depositors to move funds previously held in such noninterest-bearing accounts to interest-bearing accounts, which could increase the Company's costs of funds and negatively impact its results of operations, or may cause depositors to withdraw their deposits and invest funds in investments perceived as being more secure. This could reduce the Company's liquidity, or require the payment of higher interest rates to retain deposits in order to maintain liquidity and could adversely affect the Company's earnings.The FDIC has adopted a plan to increase the federal Deposit Insurance Fund, including additional future premium increases and special assessments.The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments and assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35 percent as the minimum Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0 percent and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio of 1.35 percent by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio to 1.35 percent from the former statutory minimum of 1.15 percent. As a result, the deposit insurance assessments to be paid by the Company could increase.Despite the FDIC’s actions to restore the Deposit Insurance Fund, the fund will suffer additional losses in the future due to failures of insured institutions. There could be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s loan portfolio mix increases the exposure to credit risks tied to deteriorating conditions.The loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to the total loans and total assets. These types of loans have historically been viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the FDIC has issued pronouncements alerting banks of its concern about banks with a heavy concentration of commercial real estate loans. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have a material adverse impact on results of operations and financial condition.11Table of ContentsNon-performing assets could increase, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.Non-performing assets (which include OREO) adversely affect the Company’s net income and financial condition in various ways. The Company does not record interest income on non-accrual loans or OREO, thereby adversely affecting its income. When the Company takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related asset to the then fair value of the collateral, less estimated cost to sell, which may result in a charge-off of the value of the asset and lead the Company to increase the provision for loan losses. An increase in the level of non-performing assets also increases the Company’s risk profile and may impact the capital levels its regulators believe are appropriate in light of such risks. Continued decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond the Company’s control, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition to the carrying costs to maintain OREO, the resolution of non-performing assets increases the Company’s loan administration costs generally, and requires significant commitments of time from management and the Company’s directors, which reduces the time they have to focus on profitably growing the Company’s business. The Company may experience further increases in non-performing assets in the future.A decline in the fair value of the Company’s investment portfolio could adversely affect earnings.The fair value of the Company’s investment securities could decline as a result of factors including changes in market interest rates, credit quality and credit ratings, lack of market liquidity and other economic conditions. An investment security is impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value. When a security is impaired, the Company determines whether the impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary. If an impairment is determined to be other-than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized by reducing the amortized cost only for the credit loss associated with the other-than-temporary loss with a corresponding charge to earnings for a like amount. Any such impairment charge would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.With relatively soft loan demand and increased market liquidity, the investment securities portfolio has grown significantly and represented 48 percent of total assets at December 31, 2012. While the Company believes that the terms of such investments have been kept relatively short, the Company is subject to elevated interest rate risk exposure if rates were to increase sharply. Further, the change in the mix of the Company’s assets to more investment securities presents a different type of asset quality risk than the loan portfolio. While the Company believes a relatively conservative management approach has been applied to the investment portfolio, there is always potential loss exposure under changing economic conditions. Recent and/or future U.S. federal government credit downgrades or changes in outlook by major credit rating agencies may have an adverse effect on financial markets, including financial institutions and the financial industry.In August 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the United States long-term debt rating from its AAA rating to AA+. On August 8, 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded from AAA to AA+ the credit ratings of certain long-term debt instruments issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and other U.S. government agencies linked to long-term United States debt. It is difficult to predict the effect of these actions, or any future downgrades or changes in outlook by Standard & Poor’s or either of the other two major credit rating agencies. However, these events could impact the trading market for U.S. government securities, including U.S. agency securities, and the securities markets more broadly, and consequently could impact the value and liquidity of financial assets, including assets in the Company’s investment portfolio. These actions could also create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, which may negatively affect the global banking system and limit the availability of funding, including borrowing under securities sold under agreements to repurchase (“repurchase agreements”), at reasonable terms. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect profitability.The Company’s profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s interest rate spread, and, in turn, profitability. The Company seeks to manage its interest rate risk within well established policies and guidelines. Generally, the Company seeks an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. However, the Company’s structures and practices to manage interest rate risk may not be effective in a highly volatile rate environment.Interest rate swaps expose the Company to certain risks, and may not be effective in mitigating exposure to changes in interest rates.The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements in order to manage a portion of the risk to interest rate volatility. The Company anticipates that additional interest rate swaps may be entered into in the future. These swap agreements involve other risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, leaving the Company vulnerable to interest rate movements. There can be no assurance that these arrangements will be effective in reducing the Company’s exposure to changes in interest rates.12Table of ContentsIf goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes additionally impaired, it could have an adverse impact on earnings and capital.Accounting standards require the Company to account for acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. Under acquisition accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, goodwill is not amortized but rather is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. The Company's goodwill was not considered impaired as of December 31, 2012; however, the Company incurred an impairment of goodwill of $40.2 million ($32.6 million after-tax) during the third quarter of 2011. The Company continues to maintain $106 million in goodwill on its balance sheet and there can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of additional impairment and write-downs, which could be material. While a non-cash item, additional impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, additional impairment of goodwill could subject the Company to regulatory limitations, including the ability to pay dividends on its common stock.Growth through future acquisitions could, in some circumstances, adversely affect profitability or other performance measures.The Company may in the future engage in selected acquisitions of additional financial institutions. There are risks associated with any such acquisitions that could adversely affect profitability and other performance measures. These risks include, among other things, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a financial institution being acquired, encountering greater than anticipated cost of integrating acquired businesses into the Company’s operations, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. The Company may not be able to continue to grow through acquisitions, and if it does, there is a risk of negative impacts of such acquisitions on the Company’s operating results and financial condition.The Company anticipates that it might issue capital stock in connection with future acquisitions. Acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and the percentage ownership of current shareholders.A tightening of the credit markets may make it difficult to obtain adequate funding for loan growth, which could adversely affect earnings.A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain or retain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost may negatively affect the Company's asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on alternative funding sources through correspondent banking and borrowings with the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") to fund loan growth. In the event the economy continues to see a slow recovery, particularly in the housing market, these resources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit and or raise the cost of the funds available to the Company.The Company may pursue additional capital in the future, which could dilute the holders of the Company’s outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of common stock.In the current economic environment, the Company believes it is prudent to consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities to raise capital at attractive prices present themselves, in order to further strengthen the Company’s capital and better position itself to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in the future. Such alternatives may include issuance and sale of common or preferred stock or borrowings by the Company, with proceeds contributed to the Bank. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of the Company’s outstanding common stock, and may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock and performance measures such as earnings per share.Business would be harmed if the Company lost the services of any of the senior management team.The Company believes its success to date has been substantially dependent on its Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and other members of the executive management team, and on the Presidents of its bank divisions. The loss of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and future growth prospects.Competition in the Company’s market areas may limit future success.Commercial banking is a highly competitive business. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loans, credit unions, finance, insurance and other non-depository companies operating in its market areas. The Company is subject to substantial competition for loans and deposits from other financial institutions. Some of its competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction as the Company. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial resources than the Company. If the Company is unable to effectively compete in its market areas, the Company’s business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected.13Table of ContentsA failure in or breach of the Company's operational or security systems, or those of the Company's third party service providers, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt business, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage the Company's reputation, increase costs and cause losses.The Company's operations rely heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on the its computer systems and networks. Any failure, interruption or breach in security or operational integrity of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company's online banking system, customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit and loan servicing and other systems. The security and integrity of the Company's systems could be threatened by a variety of interruptions or information security breaches, including those caused by computer hacking, cyber attacks, electronic fraudulent activity or attempted theft of financial assets. The Company cannot assure that any such failures, interruption or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. While the Company has certain protective policies and procedures in place, the nature and sophistication of the threats continue to evolve. The Company may be required to expend significant additional resources in the future to modify and enhance its protective measures.Additionally, the Company faces the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third parties that facilitate its business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, the Company's operational systems. Any failures, interruptions or security breaches in the Company's information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, or expose the Company to civil litigation, regulatory fines or losses not covered by insurance. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and changes or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect the Company.The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, the Company is subject to regulation by the SEC. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation or in policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, income tax laws and accounting principles could have a substantial impact on the Company and its operations. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies or damage to the Company’s reputation, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.In that regard, sweeping financial regulatory reform legislation was enacted in July 2010. Among other provisions, the new legislation 1) creates a new CFPB with broad powers to regulate consumer financial products such as credit cards and mortgages; 2) creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council comprised of the heads of other regulatory agencies; 3) will lead to new capital requirements from federal banking regulatory agencies; 4) places new limits on electronic debt card interchange fees; and 5) requires the SEC and national stock exchanges to adopt significant new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. The new legislation and regulations are expected to increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance.Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the challenging national, regional and local economic conditions. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the Company’s business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board.The Company cannot accurately predict the full effects of recent legislation or the various other governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets and on the Company. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of the Company’s common stock.14Table of ContentsThe Company has various anti-takeover measures that could impede a takeover.The Company’s articles of incorporation include certain provisions that could make more difficult the acquisition of the Company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, merger or otherwise. These provisions include a requirement that any “Business Combination” (as defined in the articles of incorporation) be approved by at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares, unless it is either approved by the Board of Directors or certain price and procedural requirements are satisfied. In addition, the authorization of preferred stock, which is intended primarily as a financing tool and not as a defensive measure against takeovers, may potentially be used by management to make more difficult uninvited attempts to acquire control of the Company. These provisions may have the effect of lengthening the time required to acquire control of the Company through a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and may deter any potentially unfriendly offers or other efforts to obtain control of the Company. This could deprive the Company’s shareholders of opportunities to realize a premium for their Glacier Bancorp, Inc. common stock, even in circumstances where such action is favored by a majority of the Company’s shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone 