ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and the Banks are exposed to certain risks. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. FLUCTUATING INTEREST RATES CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY The Company's profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or "spread") between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company's interest rate spread, and, in turn, the profitability. The Company cannot assure you that it can minimize interest rate risk. In addition, interest rates also affect the amount of money the Company can lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing also increases. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business and prospects. For discussion concerning Net Interest Income Simulation, see "Item 7 - Management Discussion & Analysis". 23 A TIGHTENING OF THE CREDIT MARKET MAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN AVAILABLE MONEY TO FUND LOAN GROWTH, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS A tightening of the credit market and the inability to obtain adequate money to fund continued loan growth may negatively affect asset growth and, therefore, earnings capability. In addition to any deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on alternative funding sources through correspondent banking and a borrowing line with the FHLB to fund loans. In the event of a downturn in the economy, particularly in the housing market, these resources could be negatively affected, which would limit the funds available to the Company. ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO COVER ACTUAL LOAN LOSSES, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT EARNINGS The Company maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses in an amount that is believed adequate to provide for losses inherent in the portfolio. While the Company strives to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem loans. The Company cannot be sure that it will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets, or that it will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Additionally, future additions to the allowance may be required based on changes in the composition of the loans comprising the portfolio and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as may result from changes in economic conditions or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the allowance. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operation. CONCENTRATION IN REAL ESTATE MARKET The Company has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could hurt business and prospects. Business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in loans secured by real estate. A decline in the real estate market could negatively affect the business because the collateral securing those loans may decrease in value. A downturn in the local economy could have a material adverse effect both on the borrowers' ability to repay these loans, as well as the value of the real property held as collateral. The ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and the Company would more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. LOAN PORTFOLIO MIX COULD RESULT IN INCREASED CREDIT RISK IN AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN The loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to the total loans and total assets. These types of loans generally are viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the FDIC has issued a pronouncement alerting banks its concern about banks with a heavy concentration of commercial real estate loans. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in: a loss of earnings from these loans; an increase in the provision for loan losses; or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition. COMPETITION IN OUR MARKET AREA MAY LIMIT OUR FUTURE SUCCESS Commercial banking is a highly competitive business. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance, insurance and other non-depository companies operating in our market area. The Company is subject to substantial competition for loans and deposits from other financial institutions. Some of the Company's competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction as it is. Some of its competitors have greater financial resources than the Company. If the Company is unable to effectively compete in its market area, the business and results of operations could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 