ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and the Banks are exposed to certain risks. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect the business, financial condition and future results. The effect of the national economic situation on the Company's future results of operations or stock trading price. The national economy, and the financial services sector in particular, is currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. No one can predict the severity or duration of this national downturn, which has adversely impacted the markets the Company serves. Any deterioration in the Company's markets resulting from the economic slowdown would have an adverse effect on business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the trading price of the Company's stock to decline. The effect of recently enacted and pending federal legislation. On October 3, 2008, Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA"), which provides the United States Treasury Department ("Treasury") with broad authority to implement action intended to help restore stability and liquidity to the US financial markets. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury has the ability to purchase or insure up to $700 billion in troubled assets held by financial institutions under the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP") under various programs. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced it would initially purchase equity stakes in financial institutions under a Capital Purchase Program (the "CPP") of up to $350 billion of the $700 billion authorized under the TARP legislation. The CPP provides direct equity investment of perpetual preferred stock by the Treasury in qualified financial institutions. The EESA also increases the amount of deposit account insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 effective until December 31, 2009. As indicated by the Treasury as of early 2009, additional potential related legislation is pending, which among other things is expected to inject more capital from the Treasury into financial institutions through the Capital Assistance Program, establish a public-private investment fund for the purchase of troubled assets, and expand the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility to include commercial mortgage backed-securities. The full effect of the broad legislation already enacted and related legislation expected to be enacted in the near future on the national economy and financial institutions, particularly on mid-sized institutions like the Company, cannot now be predicted. Decline in the fair value of the Company's investment portfolio could adversely affect earnings Investment securities fair value could decline as a result of factors including changes in market interest rate, credit quality and ratings, liquidity and other economic conditions. Investment securities are impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value. When a security is impaired, the Company determines whether an impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary. If an impairment is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impaired loss is recognized by reducing the amortized cost basis to fair value and as a charge to earnings. See critical accounting policies in "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis" for additional information regarding other-than-temporary loss on securities. The Company's ability to access markets for funding and acquire and retain customers could be adversely affected to the extent the financial service industry's reputation is damaged. Reputation risk is the risk to liquidity, earnings and capital arising from negative publicity regarding the financial services industry. The financial services industry continues to be featured in negative headlines about the global and national credit crisis and the resulting stabilization legislation enacted by the U.S. federal government. These reports can be damaging to the industry's image and potentially erode consumer confidence in insured financial institutions, such as the Company's bank subsidiaries. The Company has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate. The Company has a concentration of loans secured by real estate. While the Pacific Northwest economy typically lags the national economy, the effects of the economic downturn are now significantly impacting the Company's market area. Further downturn in the market areas the Company serves may cause the Company to have lower earnings and could increase credit risk associated with the loan portfolio, as the collateral securing those loans may decrease in value. A continued downturn in the local economy could have a material adverse effect both on the borrowers' ability to repay these loans, as well as the value of the real property held as collateral. The Company's ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and the Company would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The Company's loan portfolio mix could result in increased credit risk in an economic downturn. The loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, real estate acquisition and development loans in 26 relation to the total loans and total assets. These types of loans have historically been viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the FDIC has issued pronouncements alerting banks of its concern about banks with a heavy concentration of commercial real estate loans. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the Company's loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on results of operations and financial condition. An economic downturn in the market areas the Company serves may cause the Company to have lower earnings and could increase credit risk associated with the loan portfolio. The inability of borrowers to repay loans can erode earnings. Although the adverse effects of the national economic downturn have not yet been experienced in the Company's primary market areas to the extent of many other regions of the country, there can be no assurance that the Company's markets areas will also not deteriorate. A deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas the Company serves could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company's prospects, results of operations and financial condition: - loan delinquencies may increase further, migrating into the substantial commercial real estate and business lending portfolios; - collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; - demand for banking products and services may decline; and - low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. The allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect earnings. The Company maintains an ALLL in an amount that it believes is adequate to provide for losses inherent in the portfolio. While the Company strives to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. By managing credit quality, the Company attempts to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets and adjust the ALLL accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, and if the economy continues to deteriorate, there may be loans that deteriorate to a nonperforming status in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the ALLL may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, requiring an increase to the ALLL. Additionally, future significant additions to the ALLL may be required based on changes in the mix of loans comprising the portfolio, changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as may result from changes in economic conditions, or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the ALLL. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the Company's loan portfolio and the adequacy of the ALLL. These regulatory agencies may require the Company to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from the Company's judgments. Any increase in the ALLL could have a negative effect on the financial condition and results of operation. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect profitability. The Company's profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or "spread") between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company's interest rate spread, and, in turn, profitability. The Company seeks to manage its interest rate risk within well established guidelines. Generally, the Company seeks an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. A continued tightening of the credit markets may make it difficult to obtain adequate funding for loan growth, which could adversely affect earnings. A continued tightening of the credit market and the inability to obtain or retain adequate money to fund continued loan growth may negatively affect the Company's asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on alternative funding sources through correspondent banking, and borrowing lines with the FRB and FHLB to fund loans. In the event the current economic downturn continues, particularly in the housing market, these resources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit and or raise the cost of the funds available to the Company. 27 If the goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on earnings and capital. Accounting standards require that the Company account for acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. Under purchase accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquiror's balance sheet as goodwill. At December 31, 2008, there was approximately $147 million of goodwill on the balance sheet. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized but rather is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Although at the current time the Company has not incurred an impairment of goodwill, there can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and write-downs, which could be material. Growth through future acquisitions, which could, in some circumstances, adversely affect profitability measures. The Company has in recent years acquired other financial institutions. The Company may in the future engage in selected acquisitions of additional financial institutions, including transactions that may receive assistance from the FDIC. There are risks associated with any such acquisitions that could adversely affect profitability. These risks include, among other things, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a financial institution being acquired, encountering greater than anticipated cost of incorporating acquired businesses into the Company's operations, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. The Company anticipates that it might issue capital stock in connection with future acquisitions. Acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and the percentage ownership of current shareholders. The Company currently does not have any definitive understandings or agreements for any acquisitions other than the agreement to acquire First Company and its subsidiary First National Bank & Trust, a community bank based in Powell, Wyoming. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in "Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. Competition in the Company's market areas may limit future success. Commercial banking is a highly competitive business. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance, insurance and other non-depository companies operating in its market areas. The Company is subject to substantial competition for loans and deposits from other financial institutions. Some of its competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction as the Company is. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial resources than the Company does. If the Company is unable to effectively compete in its market areas, the Company's business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund. Based on recent events and the state of the economy, the FDIC has increased federal deposit insurance premiums by 7 basis points for the first quarter of 2009. The increase of these premiums will add to the cost of operations and could have a significant impact on the Company. New rules governing deposit insurance premiums are expected to go into effect on April 1, 2009. These new rules are intended to make assessments more balanced by requiring riskier institutions to pay a larger share. Further, depending on any future losses that the FDIC insurance fund may suffer in the current economic environment, there can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant premium increases in order to replenish the fund. Business would be harmed if the Company lost the services of any of the senior management team. The Company believes its success to date has been substantially dependent on its Chief Executive Officer and other members of the executive management team, and on the Presidents of its bank subsidiaries. The loss of any of these persons could have an adverse affect on the Company's business and future growth prospects. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal state and local laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect the Company's powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. These powers recently have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions the Company is facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 28 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 