ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company and its eleven wholly-owned, independent community bank subsidiaries are exposed to certain risks. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company's business, financial condition and future results. The Company cannot accurately predict the effect of the current economic downturn on the Company's future results of operations or the market price of its common stock. The national economy and the financial services sector in particular are currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. The Company cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic downturn, which has adversely impacted the Company's markets. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in the Company's markets would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of the Company's stock to decline. While the Company cannot accurately predict how long these conditions may exist, the economic downturn could continue to present risks for some time for the industry and Company. 30 A further economic downturn in the market areas the Company serves may continue to adversely impact earnings and could increase credit risk associated with the loan portfolio. The inability of borrowers to repay loans can erode earnings by requiring the Company to add to its allowance for loan and lease losses. The effects of the national economic downturn are significantly impacting the market areas the Company serves. A further deterioration in the market areas the Company serves could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which could be material, on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects: - loan delinquencies may increase further; - problem assets and foreclosures may increase further; - collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; - demand for banking products and services may decline; and - low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. The allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect earnings. The Company maintains an ALLL in an amount that it believes is adequate to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. While the Company strives to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. By closely monitoring credit quality, the Company attempts to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets and adjust the ALLL accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, and if the economy continues to deteriorate, there may be loans that deteriorate to a nonperforming status in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the ALLL may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, requiring an increase to the ALLL. Additionally, future significant additions to the ALLL may be required based on changes in the mix of loans comprising the portfolio, changes in the financial condition of borrowers, which may result from changes in economic conditions, or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the ALLL. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the Company's loan portfolio and the adequacy of the ALLL. These regulatory agencies may require the Company to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from the Company's judgments. Any increase in the ALLL would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate, so any further deterioration in the real estate markets could require material increases in ALLL and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate. Further downturn in the market areas the Company serves may cause the Company to have lower earnings and could increase credit risk associated with the loan portfolio, as the collateral securing those loans may decrease in value. A continued downturn in the local economy could have a material adverse effect both on the borrowers' ability to repay these loans, as well as the value of the real property held as collateral. The Company's ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining real estate values, which increases the likelihood that the Company will suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the ALLL. This, in turn, could require material increases in the ALLL which would adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. A continued tightening of the credit markets may make it difficult to obtain adequate funding for loan growth, which could adversely affect earnings. A continued tightening of the credit market and the inability to obtain or retain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost may negatively affect the Company's asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on alternative funding sources through correspondent banking, and borrowing lines with the FRB and FHLB to fund loans. In the event the current economic downturn continues, particularly in the housing market, these resources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit and or raise the cost of the funds available to the Company. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue paying dividends on the common stock at recent levels. The ability to pay dividends on the Company's common stock depends on a variety of factors. The Company paid dividends of $0.13 per share in each quarter of 2009. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue paying quarterly dividends commensurate with recent levels. Current guidance from the Federal Reserve provides, among other things, that dividends per share generally should not exceed earnings per share, measured over the previous four fiscal quarters. As a result, future dividends will depend on sufficient earnings to support them. 31 The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund and there may be additional future premium increases and special assessments. The FDIC adopted a final rule revising its risk-based assessment system, effective April 1, 2009. The changes to the assessment system involve adjustments to the risk-based calculation of an institution's unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits. The revisions effectively result in a range of possible assessments under the risk-based system of 7 to 77.5 basis points. The potential increase in FDIC insurance premiums could have a significant impact on the Company. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment of five basis points on all insured institutions. This emergency assessment was calculated based on the insured institution's assets at June 30, 2009, and collected on September 30, 2009. This special assessment was in addition to the regular quarterly risk-based assessment. The FDIC also has recently required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010, 2011 and 2012, and increased the regular assessment rate by three basis points effective January 1, 2011, as a means of replenishing the deposit insurance fund. The prepayment was collected on December 30, 2009, and was accounted for as a prepaid expense amortized over the prepayment period. The FDIC deposit insurance fund may suffer additional losses in the future due to bank failures. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund's reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company's loan portfolio mix could result in increased credit risk in an economic downturn. The loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to the total loans and total assets. These types of loans have historically been viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the FDIC has issued pronouncements alerting banks of its concern about banks with a heavy concentration of commercial real estate loans. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the Company's loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on results of operations and financial condition. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect the Company's results of operations and financial condition. Nonperforming assets (which include foreclosed real estate) adversely affect the Company's net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, the Company expects to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans. The Company does not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting its income, and increasing loan administration costs. When the Company takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral less cost to sell, which may result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets also increases the Company's risk profile and may impact the capital levels its regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. While the Company has reduced its problem assets through workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers' performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond the Company's control, could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition to the carrying costs to maintain other real estate owned, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and the Company's directors, which can be detrimental to performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience further increases in nonperforming assets in the future. 32 The Company's ability to access markets for funding and acquire and retain customers could be adversely affected by the deterioration of other financial institutions or to the extent the financial service industry's reputation is damaged. Reputation risk is the risk to liquidity, earnings and capital arising from negative publicity regarding the financial services industry. The financial services industry continues to be featured in negative headlines about the global and national credit crisis and the resulting stabilization legislation enacted by the U.S. federal government. These reports can be damaging to the industry's image and potentially erode consumer confidence in insured financial institutions, such as the Company's bank subsidiaries. In addition, the Company's ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial condition of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, correspondent, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. The Company could experience material changes in the level of deposits as a direct or indirect result of other banks' difficulties or failure, which could affect the amount of capital needed. Decline in the fair value of the Company's investment portfolio could adversely affect earnings The fair value of the Company's investment securities could decline as a result of factors including changes in market interest rates, credit quality and ratings, lack of market liquidity and other economic conditions. Investment securities are impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value. When a security is impaired, the Company determines whether impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary. The Company adopted FASB ASC Topic 320, Investments - Debt and Equity Securities, relating to the recognition and presentation of other-than-temporary impairments, effective for the interim period ended June 30, 2009, and accordingly, if an impairment is determined to be other-than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized by reducing the amortized cost only for the credit loss associated with an other-than-temporary loss with a corresponding charge to earnings for a like amount. For further information regarding the standard see discussion in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of Recently Issued Standards". Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect profitability. The Company's profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or "spread") between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company's interest rate spread, and, in turn, profitability. The Company seeks to manage its interest rate risk within well established guidelines. Generally, the Company seeks an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. However, the Company's structures and practices to manage interest rate risk may not be effective in a highly volatile rate environment. If the goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on earnings and capital. Accounting standards require that the Company account for acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. Under acquisition accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquiror's balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized but rather is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Although at the current time the Company has not incurred an impairment of goodwill, there can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and write-downs, which could be material. Growth through future acquisitions could, in some circumstances, adversely affect profitability measures. The Company has in recent years acquired other financial institutions. The Company may in the future engage in selected acquisitions of additional financial institutions, including transactions that may receive assistance from the FDIC. There are risks associated with any such acquisitions that could adversely affect profitability. These risks include, among other things, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a financial institution being acquired, encountering greater than anticipated cost of integrating acquired businesses into the Company's operations, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. Furthermore, the Company cannot provide any assurance as to the extent to which the Company can continue to grow through acquisitions. The Company anticipates that it might issue capital stock in connection with future acquisitions. Acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and the percentage ownership of current shareholders. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in "Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information. 33 The Company may pursue additional capital in the future, which could dilute the holders of the Company's outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of common stock. In the current economic environment, the Company believes it is prudent to consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities to raise capital at attractive prices present themselves, in order to further strengthen the Company's capital and better position itself to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in the future. Such alternatives may include issuance and sale of common or preferred stock, trust preferred securities, or borrowings by the Company, with proceeds contributed to the Bank. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of the Company's outstanding common stock, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and performance measures such as earnings per share. Business would be harmed if the Company lost the services of any of the senior management team. The Company believes its success to date has been substantially dependent on its Chief Executive Officer and other members of the executive management team, and on the Presidents of its bank subsidiaries. The loss of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and future growth prospects. Competition in the Company's market areas may limit future success. Commercial banking is a highly competitive business. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance, insurance and other non-depository companies operating in its market areas. The Company is subject to substantial competition for loans and deposits from other financial institutions. Some of its competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction as the Company. Some of the Company's competitors have greater financial resources than the Company. If the Company is unable to effectively compete in its market areas, the Company's business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely effected. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely effected by changes in federal state and local laws and regulations. As discussed more fully in the section entitled "Supervision and Regulation", the Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly traded company, the Company is subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company and its operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect the Company's powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions the Company is facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. The Company cannot predict the actual effects of recent legislation or the proposed regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on the Company and its subsidiaries. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 34 