Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company and its eleven wholly-owned, independent community bank subsidiaries are exposed to certain risks. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company’s business, financial condition and future results. The continued challenging economic environment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future results of operations or market price of stock. The national economy, and the financial services sector in particular, are still facing significant challenges. Substantially all of the Company’s loans are to businesses and individuals in Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado and Washington, markets facing many of the same challenges as the national economy, including elevated unemployment and declines in commercial and residential real estate. Although some economic indicators are improving both nationally and in the Company’s markets, unemployment remains high and there remains substantial uncertainty regarding when and how strongly a sustained economic recovery will occur. The inability of borrowers to repay loans can erode earnings by reducing earnings and by requiring the Company to add to its allowance for loan and lease losses. While the Company cannot accurately predict how long these conditions may exist, the economic downturn could continue to present risks for some time for the industry and Company. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the nation as a whole or in the Company’s markets could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which may be material, on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of the Company’s stock to decline: § loan delinquencies may increase further; § problem assets and foreclosures may increase further; § collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans and increasing the potential severity of loss in the event of loan defaults; § demand for banking products and services may decline; and § low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. The allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect earnings. The Company maintains an ALLL in an amount that it believes is adequate to provide for losses in the loan portfolio. While the Company strives to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become non-performing, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as non-performing or potential problem loans. By closely monitoring credit quality, the Company attempts to identify deteriorating loans before they become non-performing assets and adjust the ALLL accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, and if the economic downturn continues or deteriorates further, there may be loans that deteriorate to a non-performing status in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the ALLL may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans, requiring an increase to the ALLL. Additionally, future significant additions to the ALLL may be required based on changes in the mix of loans comprising the portfolio, changes in the financial condition of borrowers, which may result from changes in economic conditions, or changes in the assumptions used in determining the ALLL. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the Company’s loan portfolio and the adequacy of the ALLL. These regulatory agencies may require the Company to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from the Company’s judgments. Any increase in the ALLL would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a high concentration of loans secured by real estate, so any further deterioration in the real estate markets could require material increases in ALLL and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company has a high degree of concentration in loans secured by real estate. A sluggish recovery, or a continuation of the downturn in the economic conditions or real estate values, of the Company’s market areas could adversely impact borrowers’ ability to repay loans secured by real estate and the value of real estate collateral, thereby increasing the credit risk associated with the loan portfolio. The Company’s ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining real estate values, which increases the likelihood that the Company will suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the ALLL. This, in turn, could require material increases in the ALLL which would adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. 36 Table of Contents A tightening of the credit markets may make it difficult to obtain adequate funding for loan growth, which could adversely affect earnings. A tightening of the credit markets and the inability to obtain or retain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost may negatively affect the Company’s asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on alternative funding sources through correspondent banking, and borrowing lines with the FRB and FHLB to fund loans. In the event the current economic downturn continues, particularly in the housing market, these resources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit and or raise the cost of the funds available to the Company. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue paying dividends on the common stock at recent levels. The ability to pay dividends on the Company’s common stock depends on a variety of factors. The Company paid dividends of $0.13 per share in each quarter of 2009 and 2010. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue paying quarterly dividends commensurate with recent levels. In that regard, the Federal Reserve now is requiring the Company to provide prior written notice and related information for staff review before declaring or paying dividends. In addition, current guidance from the Federal Reserve provides, among other things, that dividends per share generally should not exceed earnings per share. As a result, future dividends will depend on sufficient earnings to support them. Furthermore, the Company’s ability to pay dividends depends on the amount of dividends paid to the Company by its subsidiaries, which is also subject to government regulation, oversight and review. In addition, the ability of some of the bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Company is subject to prior regulatory approval. The Company may not be able to continue to grow organically or through acquisitions. Historically, the Company has expanded through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. If market and regulatory conditions remain challenging, the Company may be unable to grow organically or successfully complete potential future acquisitions. In particular, while the Company intends to focus any near-term acquisition efforts on FDIC-assisted transactions within its existing market areas, there can be no assurance that such opportunities will become available on terms that are acceptable to the Company. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Company can successfully complete such transactions, since they are subject to a formal bid process and regulatory review and approval. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund and there may be additional future premium increases and special assessments. In 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment of five basis points on all insured institutions, and also required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments through 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum deposit insurance fund reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset or how larger institutions will be affected by it. Despite the FDIC’s actions to restore the deposit insurance fund, the fund will suffer additional losses in the future due to failures of insured institutions. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s loan portfolio mix increases the exposure to credit risks tied to deteriorating conditions. The loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to the total loans and total assets. These types of loans have historically been viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the FDIC has issued pronouncements alerting banks of its concern about banks with a heavy concentration of commercial real estate loans. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the Company’s loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or more of these loans may cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on results of operations and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Non-performing assets have increased and could continue to increase, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Non-performing assets (which include foreclosed real estate) adversely affects the Company’s net income and financial condition in various ways. The Company does not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting its income. When the Company takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, less estimated cost to sell, which may result in a charge-off of the value of the asset and lead the Company to increase the provision for loan losses. An increase in the level of non-performing assets also increases the Company’s risk profile and may impact the capital levels its regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. Continued decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond the Company’s control, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition to the carrying costs to maintain other real estate owned, the resolution of non-performing assets increases the Company’s loan administration costs generally, and requires significant commitments of time from management and the Company’s directors, which reduces the time they have to focus on growing the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience further increases in non-performing assets in the future. Decline in the fair value of the Company’s investment portfolio could adversely affect earnings. The fair value of the Company’s investment securities could decline as a result of factors including changes in market interest rates, credit quality and ratings, lack of market liquidity and other economic conditions. Investment securities are impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value. When a security is impaired, the Company determines whether impairment is temporary or other-than-temporary. If an impairment is determined to be other-than temporary, an impairment loss is recognized by reducing the amortized cost only for the credit loss associated with an other-than-temporary loss with a corresponding charge to earnings for a like amount. Any such impairment charge would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect profitability. The Company’s profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s interest rate spread, and, in turn, profitability. The Company seeks to manage its interest rate risk within well established guidelines. Generally, the Company seeks an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. However, the Company’s structures and practices to manage interest rate risk may not be effective in a highly volatile rate environment. If the goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on earnings and capital. Accounting standards require that the Company account for acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting. Under acquisition accounting, if the purchase price of an acquired company exceeds the fair value of its net assets, the excess is carried on the acquirer’s balance sheet as goodwill. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, goodwill is not amortized but rather is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Although at the current time the Company has not incurred an impairment of goodwill, there can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and write-downs, which could be material. An impairment of goodwill could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, an impairment of goodwill could subject the Company to regulatory limitations, including the ability to pay dividends on common stock. Growth through future acquisitions could, in some circumstances, adversely affect profitability or other performance measures. The Company has in recent years acquired other financial institutions. The Company may in the future engage in selected acquisitions of additional financial institutions, including transactions that may receive assistance from the FDIC, although there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully complete any such transactions. There are risks associated with any such acquisitions that could adversely affect profitability and other performance measures. These risks include, among other things, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a financial institution being acquired, encountering greater than anticipated cost of integrating acquired businesses into the Company’s operations, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. The Company cannot provide any assurance as to the extent to which the Company can continue to grow through acquisitions or the impact of such acquisitions on the Company’s operating results or financial condition. 38 Table of Contents The Company anticipates that it might issue capital stock in connection with future acquisitions. Acquisitions and related issuances of stock may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and the percentage ownership of current shareholders. The Company may pursue additional capital in the future, which could dilute the holders of the Company’s outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of common stock. In the current economic environment, the Company believes it is prudent to consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities to raise capital at attractive prices present themselves, in order to further strengthen the Company’s capital and better position itself to take advantage of opportunities that may arise in the future. Such alternatives may include issuance and sale of common or preferred stock, trust preferred securities, or borrowings by the Company, with proceeds contributed to the bank subsidiaries. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of the Company’s outstanding common stock, and may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock and performance measures such as earnings per share. Business would be harmed if the Company lost the services of any of the senior management team. The Company believes its success to date has been substantially dependent on its Chief Executive Officer and other members of the executive management team, and on the Presidents of its bank subsidiaries. The loss of any of these persons could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and future growth prospects. Competition in the Company’s market areas may limit future success. Commercial banking is a highly competitive business. The Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance, insurance and other non-depository companies operating in its market areas. The Company is subject to substantial competition for loans and deposits from other financial institutions. Some of its competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction as the Company. Some of the Company’s competitors have greater financial resources than the Company. If the Company is unable to effectively compete in its market areas, the Company’s business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and changes of or increases in, or supervisory enforcement of, banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect the Company. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, the Company is subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation or in policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, income tax laws and accounting principles could have a substantial impact on the Company and its operations. Changes in laws and regulations may also increase expenses by imposing additional fees or taxes or restrictions on operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Failure to appropriately comply with any such laws, regulations or principles could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies or damage to the Company’s reputation, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. In that regard, sweeping financial regulatory reform legislation was enacted in July 2010. Among other provisions, the new legislation 1) creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to regulate consumer financial products such as credit cards and mortgages, 2) creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council comprised of the heads of other regulatory agencies, 3) will lead to new capital requirements from federal banking agencies, 4) places new limits on electronic debt card interchange fees, and 5) will require the Securities and Exchange Commission and national stock exchanges to adopt significant new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. The new legislation and regulations are expected to increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions the Company is facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the Company’s business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the U.S. federal government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board. The Company cannot accurately predict the full effects of recent legislation or the various other governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on the Company and on its bank subsidiaries. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. 39 Table of Contents The Company has various anti-takeover measures that could impede a takeover. The Company’s articles of incorporation include certain provisions that could make more difficult the acquisition of the Company by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, merger or otherwise. These provisions include a requirement that any “Business Combination” (as defined in the articles of incorporation) be approved by at least 80 percent of the voting power of the then-outstanding shares, unless it is either approved by the Board of Directors or certain price and procedural requirements are satisfied. In addition, the authorization of preferred stock, which is intended primarily as a financing tool and not as a defensive measure against takeovers, may potentially be used by management to make more difficult uninvited attempts to acquire control of the Company. These provisions may have the affect of lengthening the time required for a person to acquire control of the Company through a tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, and may deter any potentially unfriendly offers or other efforts to obtain control of the Company. This could deprive the Company’s shareholders of opportunities to realize a premium for their Glacier common stock, even in circumstances where such action is favored by a majority of the Company’s shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 