ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business exposes us to certain risks. The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. FLUCTUATING INTEREST RATES CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or "spread") between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability. We cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, interest rates also affect the amount of money we can lend. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing also increases. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, business and prospects. For discussion concerning Net Interest Income Simulation see "Item 7 - Management Discussion & Analysis". OUR ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO COVER ACTUAL LOAN LOSSES, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in the portfolio. While we strive to carefully monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. We cannot be sure that we will be able to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets, or that we will be able to limit losses on those loans that are identified. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Additionally, future additions to the allowance may be required based on changes in the composition of the loans comprising the portfolio and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as may result from changes in economic conditions, or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the allowance. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operation. OUR LOAN PORTFOLIO MIX COULD RESULT IN INCREASED CREDIT RISK IN AN ECONOMIC DOWNTURN Our loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, commercial real estate, real estate acquisition and development loans in relation to our total loans and total assets. These types of loans generally are viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or certain other types of loans or investments. In fact, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation recently issued a pronouncement alerting banks to their concern about banks with a heavy concentration of commercial real estate loans. These types of loans also typically are larger than residential real estate loans and other commercial loans. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. An increase in nonperforming loans could result in: a loss of earnings from these loans; an increase in the provision for loan losses; or an increase in loan charge-offs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. COMPETITION IN OUR MARKET AREA MAY LIMIT OUR FUTURE SUCCESS Commercial banking is a highly competitive business. We compete with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions and finance companies operating in our market area. We are subject to substantial competition for loans and deposits 22 from other financial institutions. Some of our competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation and restriction as we are. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. If we are unable to effectively compete in our market area, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 