Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Unfavorable Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business. Adverse changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or instability in the financial markets or credit markets may either lower demand for our products or increase our operational costs, or both. Such conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with whom we do business. Our revenue will be adversely affected if demand for our products declines. The impact of unfavorable economic conditions may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivables may increase and failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Loss or Decrease in Sales Among One of Our Top Three Customers Could Have a Substantial Negative Impact on Our Sales and Operating Results. A significant percentage of our sales has been, and will continue to be, concentrated among a relatively small number of customers. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, three customers (AutoZone, Advance Auto, and O’Reilly) each accounted for more than 10% of net sales and in the aggregate accounted for 39% 40%, and 38% of net sales, respectively. We anticipate that this concentration of sales among customers will continue in the future. The loss of a significant customer or a substantial decrease in sales to such a customer could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. We Extend Credit to Our Customers Who May Be Unable to Pay In the Future. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All cash equivalents are managed within established guidelines which limit the amount which may be invested with one issuer. A significant percentage of our accounts receivable have been, and will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of automotive retailers and warehouse distributors in the United States. Our five largest customers accounted for 76% and 81% of total accounts receivable as of December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008, respectively. Management continually monitors the credit terms and credit limits to these and other customers. 8 Index The Terms of Our Customer Contracts Are Not Favorable to Us and May Affect Our Financial Results. The automotive aftermarket has been consolidating over the past several years. As a result, many of our customers have grown larger and therefore have more leverage in negotiations. Customers press for extended payment terms and returns of slow moving product when negotiating with us. While we attempt to avoid or minimize such concessions, in some cases payment terms to customers have been extended and returns of product have exceeded historical levels. The product returns primarily affect our profit levels while payment terms extensions generally reduce operating cash flow and require additional capital to finance the business. We expect both of these trends to continue for the foreseeable future. Our Business May be Negatively Impacted By Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Our Dependence on Foreign Suppliers. In 2009, approximately 78% of our products were purchased from vendors in a variety of foreign countries. The products generally are purchased through purchase orders with the purchase price specified in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we do not have exposure to fluctuations in the relationship between the dollar and various foreign currencies between the time of execution of the purchase order and payment for the product. To the extent that the dollar decreases in value relative to foreign currencies in the future, the price of the product in dollars for new purchase orders may increase. The largest portion of our overseas purchases is from China. Although the value of the Chinese Yuan has been relatively constant relative to the U.S. dollar for the past eighteen months, prior to that it had increased steadily relative to the U.S. Dollar since July 2005 when it was allowed to fluctuate against a basket of currencies. If the value of the Yuan were to increase further relative to the U.S. Dollar over the next few years, the cost of products that we purchase from China would most likely increase. As a result of the magnitude of our foreign sourcing, our business may be subject to risks, including the following: · uncertainty caused by the elimination of import quotas and the possible imposition of additional quotas or antidumping or countervailing duties or other retaliatory or punitive trade measures; · imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; · significant devaluation of the dollar against foreign currencies; · restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries; · political instability, military conflict or terrorism involving the United States or any of the countries where our products are manufactured, which could cause a delay in transportation or an increase in costs of transportation, raw materials or finished product or otherwise disrupt our business operations; and · disease, epidemics and health-related concerns, such as swine flu, SARS or the mad cow or hoof and mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny and embargoing of goods produced in infected areas. If these risks limit or prevent us from acquiring products from foreign suppliers or significantly increase the cost of our products, our operations could be seriously disrupted until alternative suppliers are found, which could negatively impact our business. The Loss of a Key Supplier Could Lead to Increased Costs and Lower Profit Margins. The majority of the products sold by the Company are purchased from foreign vendors. If any of our existing vendors fail to meet our needs, we believe that sufficient capacity exists in the open market to supply any shortfall that may result. Nevertheless, it is not always possible to replace a key supplier without a disruption in our operations and replacement of significant supply is often at higher prices. Loss of Third-Party Transportation Providers Upon Whom We Depend or Increases in Fuel Prices Could Increase Our Costs or Cause a Disruption in Our Operations. We depend upon third-party transportation providers for delivery of our products to our customers and from our suppliers. Strikes, slowdowns, transportation disruptions or other conditions in the transportation industry, including, but not limited to, shortages of truck drivers, disruptions in rail service, decreases in ship building or increases in fuel prices, could increase our costs and disrupt our operations and our ability to service our customers on a timely basis. 9 Index Limited Shelf Space May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Expand Our Product Offerings. Since the amount of space available to a retailer and other purchasers of our products is limited, our products compete with other automotive aftermarket products, some of which are entirely dissimilar and otherwise non-competitive (such as car waxes and engine oil), for shelf and floor space. No assurance can be given that additional space will be available in our customers' stores to support expansion of the number of products that we offer. An Increase in Patent Filings by Original Equipment Manufacturers Could Negatively Impact Our Ability to Develop New Products. We have seen an increase in patent requests for new designs made by original equipment manufacturers. If original equipment manufacturers are able to obtain patents on new designs at a rate higher than historical levels, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling aftermarket products covered by such items, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Quality Problems with Our Products Could Damage Our Reputation and Adversely Affect Our Business. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, reliability, quality, or compatibility problems in products after their production and sale to customers. Product quality problems could result in damage to reputation, loss of customers, a decrease in revenue, unexpected expenses, and a loss of market share. We have invested and will continue to invest in our engineering, design, and quality infrastructure in an effort to reduce and eventually eliminate these problems. If We Do Not Continue to Develop New Products and Bring Them to Market, Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations Could Be Materially Impacted. The development and production of new products is often accompanied by design and production delays and related costs typically associated with the development and production of new products. While we expect and plan for such delays and related costs, we cannot predict with precision the time and expense required to overcome these initial problems and to ensure full performance to specifications. There is a risk that we may not be able to introduce or bring to full-scale production new products as quickly as we expected in our product introduction plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We May Lose Business to Competitors. Competition within the automotive aftermarket parts business is intense. We compete in North America with both original equipment parts manufacturers and with companies that, like us, supply parts only to the automotive aftermarket. We expect such competition to continue. Our inability to compete successfully in our industry could cause us to lose customers. We Have No History of Paying Dividends. We do not intend to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Rather, we intend to retain our earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business. Dorman’s Officers, Directors and Their Family Members Control the Company. As of March 2, 2010, Richard N. Berman and Steven L. Berman, who are officers and directors of Dorman Products, Inc., their father, Jordan S. Berman, and their brothers, Marc H. Berman and Fred B. Berman beneficially own approximately 40% of the outstanding Common Stock and are able to elect the Board of Directors, have a controlling influence over the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval (including certain fundamental transactions) and the affairs of the Company. Our Success Depends on the Efforts of Our Founders and Other Key Managers and Personnel. The success of our business will continue to be dependent upon Richard N. Berman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Steven L. Berman, President, Chief Operating Officer, Secretary-Treasurer and Director and other executive officers and key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managers. The loss of the services of any of these individuals for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 Index We May be Exposed to Certain Regulatory and Financial Risks Related to Climate Change. Climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. Some scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. There are a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in June 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act that would phase-in significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions if enacted into law. The U.S. Senate is considering a different bill, and it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. Similarly, certain countries have adopted the Kyoto Protocol. These actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for components used in the manufacture of our products and freight costs. Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 