Item 1A. Risk Factors” and from time to time in the Company’s periodic reports and registration statements filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are current only as of the date made. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “the Company” and “Rentech” mean Rentech, Inc., a Colorado corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Company Overview Incorporated in 1981, Rentech’s vision is to be a provider of clean energy solutions. We also own and operate a nitrogen fertilizer plant in East Dubuque, Illinois, that manufacturers and sells natural gas-based nitrogen fertilizer products within the corn-belt region in the United States and, subject to the restrictive covenants in our credit agreement, provides us with financial support for our alternative energy business. We are developing energy projects that we expect to produce certified synthetic fuels and electric power from carbon-containing materials such as biomass, waste and fossil resources. We own technologies that enable the production of such fuels and power when integrated with certain other technologies that we license or purchase. Our technologies can produce synthesis gas (“syngas”) from biomass and waste materials, and convert syngas from our own or other gasification technologies into complex hydrocarbons (the “Rentech Process”) that are then upgraded into fuels using refining technology that we license. In addition to developing projects using these technologies, we are pursuing the licensing of our technologies to developers of projects that are expected to produce fuels and/or power. The Rentech Process is a patented and proprietary technology based on Fischer-Tropsch (“FT”) chemistry, which converts syngas that can be produced from a wide variety of biomass, waste and fossil resources into hydrocarbons. These hydrocarbons can be processed and upgraded into ultra-clean synthetic fuels such as military and commercial jet fuels and ultra low sulfur diesel fuel, as well as specialty waxes and chemicals. Unlike some other alternative transportation fuels, such as ethanol, fuels produced from the Rentech Process can be transported and used in existing infrastructure including pipelines and engines without blending restrictions. Our technology portfolio also includes the Rentech-SilvaGas biomass gasification technology (the “Rentech-SilvaGas Technology”), which specifically enables us to offer integrated technologies that can convert biomass and wastes to syngas and subsequently into clean fuels and electric power. The bulk of our development activity is for proposed projects that would use biomass as a feedstock. We believe that fuels and power produced from biomass using our technologies may have very low lifecycle carbon footprints, approaching zero in some cases, depending on the type and source of the feedstock. Using biomass for fuels and power production can also divert the feedstock from disposal in landfills or other uses that generally have greater lifecycle carbon footprints. The Rentech Process can produce synthetic diesel fuels (“RenDiesel® fuels”) which are clean burning having lower emissions of regulated pollutants, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides and particulate matter, than traditional petroleum-based diesel fuels. These fuels either meet or exceed all fuels and environmental standards presently applicable in North America including the ASTM D-975 standard for diesel fuel, which is the specification used for regular diesel fuel. RenDiesel fuel will also meet the European specification described in CEN CWA 15940 which is for paraffinic diesel fuels from synthesis or hydrotreatment. The Rentech Process also can produce synthetic jet fuel (“RenJet® fuel”), which when blended with conventional jet fuel will meet jet fuel specifications for military jet fuel and commercial Jet A and Jet A-1 fuels. Synthetic jet fuel from the FT process is the only type of alternative jet fuel that meets ASTM specifications for use in commercial aviation and has been certified by the U.S. Air Force for use in its aircraft. The ASTM International Committee on Petroleum Products and Lubricants and the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration have approved FT fuels for use in commercial aircraft, when blended with petroleum-based fuels at a blend of up to 50% synthetic fuel. If the upcoming European specification for jet fuel known as DefStan 91-91 is officially issued (as currently drafted), RenJet fuel will meet the specification. We believe that the life-cycle emissions of greenhouse gases for fuels and power produced from biomass using our technology without carbon capture and sequestration can be significantly lower than is the case with fossil feedstocks, and, depending on the feedstock, can be as low as zero. A third-party study of our Rialto project has supported this conclusion. A U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) study of the life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions from the production of fuels from fossil feedstocks using FT chemistry concluded that, when carbon capture and sequestration are used, the resulting emissions are lower than those generated in the traditional production and use of petroleum-derived fuels. Because a high percentage of the carbon dioxide (“CO2”) produced by our processes is isolated as part of our standard plant configurations, we believe that carbon capture and sequestration could be readily implemented by our projects if an economical option for sequestration can be identified. We have constructed and operate our Product Demonstration Unit (“PDU”), a demonstration-scale plant at the Rentech Energy Technology Center (the “RETC”) located in Commerce City, Colorado, which we believe is the only operating integrated FT synthetic transportation fuels facility in the United States. The PDU is capable of producing approximately ten barrels per day of synthetic fuels, and we have produced thousands of gallons of ultra-clean synthetic fuels including RenJet and RenDiesel fuels. Jet and diesel fuel produced at our PDU have been used by the U.S. Air Force, United Airlines and Audi, among others. The PDU currently produces syngas from natural gas. As discussed below, we and a co-developer are in the process of constructing a biomass gasifier at the PDU, which is expected to provide syngas from biomass feedstocks. 4 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2009, we acquired SilvaGas Holding Corporation (“SilvaGas”) and its biomass gasification technology, which can convert a wide range of biomass and waste feedstocks, including wood, wood residues, straw, switch grass, refuse-derived fuel, energy crops and agricultural residues, into syngas. From 1998 to 2001, the SilvaGas technology was applied at commercial scale of 400 tons per day at a gasifier in Burlington, Vermont in a series of operating campaigns. In fiscal 2009, we also acquired a 25% ownership interest in ClearFuels Technology, Inc. (“ClearFuels”), a bio-energy gasification and project development company which owns technology that can convert virgin cellulosic biomass feedstock, such as wood waste and sugar cane bagasse, into syngas. Together with ClearFuels, we are currently constructing a demonstration-scale ClearFuels gasifier at our PDU (the “ClearFuels Gasifier”), with support from a grant from the DOE. We are pursuing the deployment of the Rentech Process and the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology by seeking to license our technologies and to develop facilities that produce synthetic fuels, chemicals, natural gas substitutes, and electric power from biomass and fossil feedstocks. We are working on a number of commercial scale opportunities involving biomass-fed, fossil-fed and a combination of biomass and fossil-fed projects to produce synthetic fuels, chemicals, and power, including a proposed project in Rialto, California (the “Rialto Renewable Energy Center” or “Rialto Project”) that we expect would produce approximately 640 barrels per day of renewable synthetic fuels and approximately 35 megawatts of renewable electric power. We have also been developing a proposed project near Natchez, Mississippi (the “Natchez Project”) designed to produce approximately 30,000 barrels per day of synthetic fuels and chemicals and approximately 120 megawatts of power. We are also evaluating alternative configurations for the Natchez site which would initially be smaller in scale. The alternate configurations may use various feedstocks (possibly including biomass, natural gas, petroleum coke and coal) alone or in various combinations, and may include higher proportions of waxes and specialty chemicals as products. We believe that a project of up to 30,000 barrels per day is still a possibility, as we could develop the project in multiple stages or in a single stage if conditions related to development and financing of very large projects improve. We also own, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Rentech Energy Midwest Corporation (“REMC”), a nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing plant that uses natural gas as its feedstock to produce syngas and then nitrogen fertilizer products. REMC’s plant, located in East Dubuque, Illinois (the “East Dubuque Plant”), manufactures and sells within the corn-belt region nitrogen fertilizer products which are currently in high demand by the American farmer and industrial users. Although our primary development strategy is focused on synthetic fuels, our operating revenues in fiscal year 2010 were almost exclusively from sales of products by REMC. Business Strategy Our deployment strategy includes both development of facilities and licensing of the Rentech Process and Rentech-SilvaGas Technology. The development model involves Rentech developing, co-owning and operating biomass-fed, fossil-fed and a combination of biomass and fossil-fed synthetic fuels, chemicals and/or power facilities. We believe we will be able to advance future projects by using the experience we gain through engineering, designing and constructing early facilities and by reducing the required capital and technical resources for each subsequent project. We intend to develop standard designs for our projects that are both replicable and scalable. The licensing model consists of licensing the Rentech Process and Rentech-SilvaGas Technology to parties for the development of facilities that produce synthetic fuels, specialty waxes and chemicals and/or power, thereby expanding the deployment opportunities for our technologies. Develop, Co-Own and Operate Model Biomass Facilities. We believe biomass facilities provide an attractive business model due to the relatively low lifecycle carbon footprints of the fuels and electricity produced by these facilities, the demand that has been demonstrated for the renewable fuels and electricity produced by these facilities and the potential to procure certain forms of urban waste streams at costs significantly lower than most fossil feedstocks. Biomass can be categorized into urban streams (including waste materials such as municipal solid waste, construction and demolition waste, green wastes and sewage sludge) and rural streams (including agricultural materials such as stovers and straws, sugar cane bagasse, forestry residues, energy crops and algae). A typical biomass facility may produce renewable synthetic fuels as well as renewable power from the biomass feedstock. We also may develop biomass facilities that would produce natural gas substitutes or electric power without the production of synthetic fuels, depending on relative product prices in various markets around the world. Biomass facilities typically should require less capital than fossil facilities which are likely to be much larger in scale. 5 Table of Contents Fossil Facilities. We believe that fossil facilities provide an appealing business model due to the ability to achieve capital efficiencies and attractive economic returns resulting from large-scale production of diverse high-value product streams. Fossil feedstock, particularly coal and petroleum coke, are abundant domestic resources with relatively stable historical prices. As a result, fossil resources are an attractive feedstock for large-scale synthetic fuels and chemicals facilities utilizing the Rentech Process where economies of scale and product diversification can be achieved. Carbon capture and sequestration as well as the addition of biomass as a co-feed are expected to reduce the life-cycle carbon footprint of fuels produced by fossil facilities below that of fuels produced from petroleum by conventional refineries. These types of facilities require significant capital for construction. Consequently, we are seeking strategic and financial partners as well as long-term off-take agreements for products produced at potential fossil facilities we may develop in the future. We believe these steps would help secure the financing required to fund these types of projects. We intend to develop plants that will be economical at a scale smaller than that typical of our competitors. Although our technology would enable us to pursue larger projects, we believe that projects at a smaller scale optimize access to capital and development time. Licensing Model We are actively pursuing a number of licensing opportunities domestically and internationally. We are working to license the Rentech Process for both biomass and fossil feedstock applications for synthetic fuels production. We are also working to license our Rentech-SilvaGas Technology for renewable power production and, in combination with the Rentech Process, synthetic fuels production. Licensing will provide us with the opportunity to expand the global deployment and acceptance of our technologies without funding the capital investment for plant construction. We believe that successful commercialization of Rentech technologies would enhance our licensing opportunities, resulting in additional revenue streams for the Company. Under a typical licensing arrangement, in addition to license fees, we would expect to receive fees for providing our catalyst and technical services to licensees. After we grant a license, our licensees will be responsible for financing, constructing and operating their own facilities that will use our licensed technologies. We generally would expect our licensees to acquire certain proprietary equipment that meets Rentech’s specifications. Licensees must also acquire their own feedstock and sell the products that their facilities produce. Commercial Opportunities We are working on the development of potential biomass projects. Our Rialto Project is furthest along in the development process compared to our other potential projects. The Rialto Project is designed to produce approximately 640 barrels per day of renewable synthetic fuels and approximately 35 megawatts of renewable power. We are approaching the completion of FEED (front-end engineering and design) for the Rialto Project which is designed to utilize both the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology and the Rentech Process. In addition, we are conducting preliminary engineering work for the design of other biomass facilities, evaluating potential sites at which to locate these facilities and actively pursuing feedstock sources and off-take agreements for these potential projects. We have been developing the Natchez Project designed to produce approximately 30,000 barrels per day of synthetic fuels and chemicals and approximately 120 megawatts of power. We own the site on which we intend to build this facility and we have a long-term agreement with Denbury Resources, Inc. under which that company will purchase all of the carbon dioxide captured during the production process. We are also evaluating alternative configurations which would initially be smaller in scale. The alternate configurations may use various feedstocks (possibly including biomass, natural gas, petroleum coke and coal) alone or in various combinations, and may include higher proportions of waxes and specialty chemicals as products. We believe that a project of up to 30,000 barrels per day is still a possibility, as we could develop the project in multiple stages or in a single stage if conditions related to development and financing of very large projects improve. Research and Development Program We continue to advance our technologies. Our research and development activities are centered at the RETC, where we have skilled technical, engineering and operating teams that work at our development and testing laboratories. The laboratory contains equipment and support facilities that provide us with resources for the continued development and testing of our technologies, as well as complementary technologies for additional applications and performance enhancements. In addition, the facilities allow us to conduct online analysis of feedstock and products. Our principal research and development efforts at our laboratory are focused on optimizing the efficiency and operating costs of the Rentech Process, and on the development of next generation technologies to further improve the economics of producing synthetic fuel and electricity from various forms of renewable and fossil feedstock. We also plan to install a ClearFuels biomass gasifier to supply syngas to the PDU in order to develop at demonstration scale a gasification technology that would complement the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology, and to continue to develop technologies and processes that clean and condition syngas produced from biomass to make it suitable as an input for the Rentech Process. The PDU is important to our research and development activities, and provides samples of our products to potential customers. 6 Table of Contents Financial Information About Our Business Segments Financial information about our business segments is provided in Note 18 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our Proprietary Rentech Process We have been developing our proprietary Rentech Process for nearly thirty years. The Rentech Process is a significant enhancement of the FT technology originally developed in the 1920s. Prior to application of the Rentech Process, hydrocarbon feedstock including fossil resources such as coal, petroleum coke, and natural gas and biomass resources such as forestry waste, agricultural waste, municipal solid waste and energy crops are reformed or gasified into syngas by various commercially available processes, including our Rentech-SilvaGas Technology. The syngas is then converted through the Rentech Process into differentiated hydrocarbon products in a reactor vessel containing Rentech’s patented and proprietary catalyst, and then upgraded with commercially available refining processes. Development of the Rentech Process Use of the Rentech Process in a commercial scale facility was successfully demonstrated in 1992 and 1993 at the Synhytech facility located in Pueblo, Colorado. The Synhytech facility was designed to produce up to 235 barrels of liquid hydrocarbons per day. Fuel Resources Development Company (“Fuelco”), our licensee at that time, had full control of the supply of syngas and the construction and operation of the facility. We designed, fabricated and operated the FT reactors and provided our catalyst for use in the Rentech reactors. Fuelco constructed the facility at the Pueblo municipal landfill, with the intent of using, at minimal cost, the methane and carbon dioxide in the landfill gas that was generated each day from the decomposition of the landfill material. Although the Rentech Process performed as expected to produce liquid hydrocarbons, Fuelco determined that the volume and the energy content of the landfill gas it captured were inadequate to operate the facility on an economic basis, and thus ceased operation of the facility. We obtained ownership and control of the Synhytech facility in 1993. In order to further evaluate performance of the Rentech Process, we decided to operate the facility for a short period of time using natural gas supplied by pipeline as the feedstock. In July and August 1993, we operated the facility continuously for three weeks. The results confirmed that the Rentech Process operated successfully and that we had the ability to produce the desired products. We closed the Synhytech facility at the end of 1993 because no cost-efficient source of natural gas feedstock was available or convenient. Our technology was also successfully used by Texaco Energy Systems at a facility in Laporte, Texas in 2000. Texaco leased the use of this facility from the DOE on a short-term basis to conduct a joint demonstration integrating the Rentech Process with Texaco’s gasification process. The Laporte facility had the capacity to produce approximately ten barrels of product per day using the Rentech Process. We have successfully produced synthetic fuels at our PDU in Commerce City, Colorado, in a series of campaigns since August 2008. We believe that the PDU is the only operating integrated FT synthetic fuels facility in the United States producing transportation fuels. The facility is designed to produce approximately ten barrels per day of synthetic jet and diesel fuels and demonstrates the design, construction and operation of a synthetic fuels facility utilizing the Rentech Process. Achieving production at the PDU was the result of the operation and integration of all processes at the facility, including the steam methane reformer for the production of synthesis gas; the conversion of the synthesis gas in the Rentech reactor into clean hydrocarbons; the separation of the Rentech catalyst from the wax produced from the reactor; and the processing and upgrading of the hydrocarbons into ultra-clean synthetic fuels, using hydrocracking and hydrotreating technologies provided by UOP, a Honeywell Company. Rentech and UOP maintain an alliance which provides customers with a single source of technologies for synthesis gas clean-up, conversion and product upgrading. Continued operations at the PDU enable us to: • confirm and optimize the design parameters of the Rentech Process during longer-term production runs; • monitor the effect of various operation parameters on product yields for the Rentech Process; 7 Table of Contents • demonstrate an integrated syngas to fuels process for strategic partners and financing sources; and • produce fuels for validation, certification and customer development. Rentech-SilvaGas Technology The patented Rentech-SilvaGas Technology generates medium-BTU syngas through the gasification of varying types of biomass feedstocks such as forestry products, pulp and paper residue, agricultural byproducts and energy crops. Biomass feedstock is loaded into the gasifier and mixed with hot sand, turning it into syngas and residual char. The residual char and sand are separated from the syngas by a cyclone separator and discharged to a combustor. The sand is then reheated in the combustor by adding air and burning the residual char and carbon. The reheated sand is removed from the combustion gas by a cyclone separator and returned to the gasifier. The resulting syngas can then be fed into a gas turbine or boiler for renewable power production. The syngas may also be used in combination with the Rentech Process for the production of renewable synthetic fuels. Development of the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology The Rentech-SilvaGas Technology was developed with approximately $100 million in funding from private investors and the DOE. A gasifier incorporating the technology operated over a series of campaigns for over 22,000 hours at a 10 dry ton per day pilot scale plant at the Battelle Memorial Institute in Columbus, Ohio. Then, from 1998 to 2001, the gasifier was operated successfully on a commercial scale during a series of operating campaigns at a facility in Burlington, Vermont, built in partnership with the DOE, National Renewable Energy Laboratory and Battelle Columbus Laboratory. The gasifier at the Burlington facility converted 400 dry tons per day of wood-based biomass into syngas used for power production. Rentech acquired the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology through its acquisition of SilvaGas in June 2009. Competition in the Alternative Energy Segment Competition in our alternative energy business varies depending on the technology and the relevant market. We face competition to provide energy conversion technologies, as well as competition in markets for the products to be produced and for the feedstocks required for the projects we are developing. Competition in Energy Conversion Technologies Competition in Fischer-Tropsch Technologies: The development of Fischer-Tropsch technology for the production of hydrocarbon products is highly competitive. Several major integrated oil companies, such as ExxonMobil, the Royal Dutch/Shell group, Statoil and BP, as well as several other companies such as Sasol, have developed or are developing competing technologies. A number of these competitors have substantially more resources to fund research and development and to stand behind guarantees of the performance of the technology. The fundamental differences between the various FT technologies developed by us and our competitors are the FT catalyst, the reactors where the syngas reacts with the catalyst and the process for separating catalyst from the wax product. The Rentech Process uses its proprietary iron-based catalyst which permits the efficient use of a wide range of feedstocks. We believe that most other FT technologies use cobalt-based catalysts. The Rentech Process also includes a patented process for separation of the Rentech catalyst from the wax product. Developing commercial FT technology requires significant capital and time, which we believe provides a material barrier to new competitors. We believe that our focus on developing small to medium sized facilities will require less capital and time for construction than larger capacity facilities. Competition from other Alternative Fuels Technologies: We believe that a number of large and small companies are developing a wide range of technologies that could produce alternative fuels from various feedstocks. We compete with these technology providers to provide conversion technology to project developers, on the basis of the overall cost of producing fuel and on the characteristics of the fuel to be produced. We also compete with these companies for feedstock and project development sites. 8 Table of Contents Competition in Biomass Gasification Technology We believe that there are two primary categories of competition to the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology: conventional, proven technologies and developmental, small-scale technologies. We believe that the conventional technologies are typically used to produce low-BTU syngas that is then combusted in a boiler to generate steam for use in power production. These technologies have been deployed at large commercial scale facilities and are currently the established technologies for biomass-to-energy projects. We believe that the developmental technologies are typically designed to produce a medium-BTU syngas which could be used for a wider range of applications, including power production on a more efficient scale and for higher value fuels such as Fischer-Tropsch fuels, ethanol, butanol, or for precursors for many industrial chemicals. These technologies are generally considered to have higher technological or scale-up risk than their conventional competitors because they have operated only at small scale or pilot scale. We believe the facility in Burlington, Vermont that utilized the Rentech-SilvaGas technology from 1998 to 2001 remains the largest facility that has operated with this type of biomass gasification technology, but other competitors have reported operating small scale facilities for several years which have gained some commercial acceptance. While some of our competitors’ technologies require the use of oxygen to make medium BTU syngas, the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology does not, which can help to simplify the design, lower the capital costs and reduce the required scale at which a biomass gasification facility can efficiently operate. Significant competitors in this area include Repotec Co., Choren Industries, Thermoselect, Range Fuels and Taylor Biomass Energy. Competition in Product and Feedstock Markets Competition in Fuels: Fuels and chemicals produced at our projects would compete broadly with fuels and chemicals produced from petroleum as well as alternative fuels and chemicals produced from various feedstocks. We believe that our synthetic fuels have some advantages over other types of alternative fuels due to their high quality and low emissions properties. Our fuels, when produced from biomass, may have very low life-cycle carbon footprints, which can be an advantage, depending on the development of regulations to limit carbon emissions. Our competition in providing fuels comes from very large, well capitalized companies in the petroleum industry and from smaller developmental companies in the alternative fuels and chemicals businesses. Competition in Power: Power produced by our projects would compete broadly with power produced by utilities and independent power producers. In particular, we compete with other forms of renewable power, such as wind, solar, and geothermal, in selling our renewable power to utilities who are trying to fulfill their obligations under various programs to procure and sell renewable power. We compete with very large, well-capitalized companies in the business of producing power, and with both large and small companies in the production of renewable power. Competition for Feedstock: For our projects that would use coal, petroleum coke or natural gas as feedstocks, we compete for supply of those feedstocks with the broad range of large and small purchasers of those feedstocks, and the markets for those feedstocks include a large number of participants. For our projects that would use biomass or waste as feedstocks, we compete in more fragmented, less developed markets to acquire supplies of feedstock. The markets for biomass and waste feedstocks are highly localized, as transportation costs are high relative to the value of the feedstock, and the infrastructure for collecting and transporting these feedstocks is less well developed. We compete for these feedstocks with existing and proposed traditional biomass-to-power plants, which produce power through incineration of the feedstock, and with a number of proposed projects that would use new technologies to convert biomass and/or waste into power and/or fuels. Products and Markets Facilities using Rentech’s technologies can be designed and configured to produce synthetic fuels, chemicals and/or power from fossil and biomass resources. The products we can produce include: • renewable synthetic diesel and jet fuels, naphtha (primarily used as a feedstock in the production of plastic) and power from biomass resources; • synthetic diesel and jet fuels, naphtha and power from fossil or fossil and biomass resources; and • paraffinic waxes, solvents and specialty chemicals. Synthetic fuel products that can be produced with our technology are substantially free of contaminants usually found in crude oil, such as sulfur, aromatics, nitrogen and heavy metals. Vehicle engine tests of RenDiesel conducted by independent labs have demonstrated that our synthetic diesel fuel is clean burning with excellent combustion qualities, and substantially reduces harmful air emissions from vehicles. Our fuels can be used directly or as a blending component with conventionally refined petroleum based fuels without any modifications to existing engines or delivery infrastructure. 9 Table of Contents Clean Air and Renewable Energy Laws The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (the “CAAA”) established several programs in order to improve air quality by, among other things, imposing restrictions on the emissions of hazardous pollutants into the atmosphere. As a means to address common sources of air pollution such as automobiles, trucks and electric power plants, the CAAA encourages the development and sale of alternative fuels as the nation attempts to meet national air quality standards. In addition, beginning on October 15, 2006, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) required diesel vehicles traveling on interstate highways to operate using ultra-low sulfur diesel. Furthermore, California has promulgated state-specific standards to reduce the sulfur content of diesel fuel. Synthetic diesel fuel produced using the Rentech Process currently exceeds the requirements of Federal and state low-sulfur standards, is clean burning fuel, and should therefore be attractive to fuel buyers and users. In 2002, the California Legislature passed Senate Bill 1078 establishing California’s Renewable Portfolio Standard (“RPS”). As modified by subsequent legislation and executive orders, the RPS requires retail sellers of electricity regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission to procure or produce power representing 20% of their retail sales from renewable sources by 2010. On July 31, 2010, the California Air Resources Board adopted the Renewable Electricity Standard (“RES”) which requires all utilities, including municipal utility districts, and other load-serving entities to procure or produce power representing 33% of their retail sales from renewable resources by 2020, as prescribed by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006. Electricity produced at the Rialto Project has been pre-qualified by the California Energy Commission as renewable electricity and we expect it will meet both the RPS and RES requirements. We also expect that future biomass-to-electricity plants employing the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology will meet these requirements. The Renewable Fuel Standard (“RFS”) created under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (“EPACT 2005”) and subsequently expanded by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (“EISA 2007”), established four distinct renewable fuel categories and associated volumetric blending requirements that in aggregate reach 36 billion ethanol gallon equivalents by 2022. The mandate, which was created under the authority of the Clean Air Act, requires the blending of renewable diesel fuels with conventional diesel fuels. Fuels produced from renewable feedstock using the Rentech Process will qualify as renewable diesel fuels. Government Incentives EPACT 2005 provides for tax credits, grants, loan guarantees and other incentives to stimulate coal gasification into Fischer-Tropsch fuels and chemicals. EPACT 2005 provides a 20% tax credit for qualifying gasification projects, including for entities which produce chemicals, fertilizers, glass, steel and forest products. In order to qualify for the tax credit, coal must comprise at least 90% of fuels required for “production of chemical feedstocks, liquid transportation fuels or co-production of electricity.” EPACT 2005 also authorizes grants for gasification and gasification co-production, which includes the production of Fischer-Tropsch fuels, fertilizer and electricity, as well as comprehensive loan guarantees for up to 80% of the project cost for deployment and commercialization of innovative technologies including gasification projects and gasifying coal to produce “ultra-clean premium fuels through Fischer-Tropsch process.” EPACT 2005 incentives may be used together with tax credits provided by the statute. As discussed above, RFS established volumetric blending requirements that must reach a certain threshold by 2022. We believe that government mandates for production of ethanol could increase the demand for corn and, as a result, for our nitrogen fertilizer products which are used in corn production. In addition, we expect that RenDiesel fuel produced at the Rialto Project will qualify as a cellulosic diesel fuel (a sub-category of one of the distinct renewable fuel categories under the RFS), which would allow obligated parties to use the fuel to meet either cellulosic biofuel or biomass-based diesel fuel volumetric blending requirements under the RFS. An obligated party under the RFS, which includes any refiner or importer of petroleum-based gasoline or diesel fuel, demonstrates compliance with the RFS through the acquisition of unique Renewable Identification Numbers (“RINs”) assigned to produced or imported renewable fuel based upon the energy content of the fuel relative to ethanol. Each year, obligated parties under RFS must acquire sufficient RINs to demonstrate compliance with their Renewable Volume Obligation (“RVO”). RINs may be traded freely between renewable fuel producers, marketers, obligated parties and other investors in RINs, and their price is generally determined between purchasers and sellers of RINs. EISA 2007 created one RIN category for each of the four volumetric blending requirements under RFS. RenDiesel fuel, as a cellulosic diesel fuel, is expected to receive a cellulosic biofuel RIN in any project that uses cellulosic materials as feedstock. RenDiesel fuel, when derived from biomass, would receive 1.7 RINs per gallon. 10 Table of Contents The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA 2008”) created a credit for capture and sequestration of anthropogenic CO2 that is sequestered in geological formations. The tax credit is $10 per ton for CO2 used for enhanced oil recovery and $20 per ton for CO2 injected in other geological formations. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) provided funding to several renewable energy programs and created a new loan guarantee program for, among other things, the commercial development and deployment of advanced renewable power and fuels production technologies. Currently, according to an October 2010 White House briefing memorandum, approximately $2.5 billion in funding remains available to subsidize loans to eligible projects. We are currently pursuing a loan guarantee under this program for the Rialto Project, which we believe meets the requirements as an eligible project. The ARRA also provided additional funding for the DOE’s existing renewable energy programs, including funding for advanced biofuel production technologies. Rentech, along with ClearFuels, received an award under this program for approximately $23 million for the ClearFuels Gasifier being constructed at the PDU. In 2006, the California Legislature passed Assembly Bill 32 (“AB-32”) or the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006. AB-32 is intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in California to 1990 levels by 2020. The Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“LCFS”) under AB-32 requires regulated parties, which are California-based refiners or importers of gasoline or diesel fuel, to reduce the carbon content per BTU (the “carbon intensity”) in the transportation fuels they sell in California by at least 10% by 2020. LCFS credits will be assigned to each gallon of renewable fuel that has a carbon intensity value below that of equivalent petroleum fuel. We expect that RenDiesel fuel produced at the Rialto Project will be entitled to receive LCFS credits. Regulated parties must comply with the LCFS beginning in 2011, and we expect that a market for LCFS credits will be established at that time. The Canadian Renewable Fuels Regulations announced on September 1, 2010 mandates an average of 5% renewable fuels content in Canadian gasoline, effective December 15, 2010. The Canadian government has also set a goal of 2% renewable fuels content in Canadian diesel fuel and heating distillate oil by 2012. Additionally, the Canadian federal ecoENERGY for Biofuels program provides a per liter incentive payment for renewable biofuels. The Province of Ontario has established preferred power rates for renewable power through the Feed-in Tariff program created by the Green Energy and Green Economy Act of 2009. Other provinces in Canada, including British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, and Saskatchewan have similar provincial legislation to promote renewable power and renewable fuels production. Many countries in addition to the United States and Canada have enacted or proposed renewable power and renewable fuels regulations and various incentives to promote the development of alternative and clean energy. We are exploring development and licensing opportunities in a number of these countries. 11 Table of Contents Business of Rentech Energy Midwest Corporation Production Facility The East Dubuque Plant is designed to produce anhydrous ammonia, nitric acid, ammonium nitrate solution, liquid and granular urea, urea ammonium nitrate solution (“UAN”) and carbon dioxide using natural gas as a feedstock. East Dubuque is located in the northwest corner of Illinois, and the facility is located on the Mississippi River. The facility operates continuously, except for planned shutdowns for maintenance and efficiency improvements and occasional unplanned shutdowns due to equipment failures, power failures or other events. The facility can optimize the product mix according to swings in demand and pricing for its various products. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, the facility produced approximately 1.05 million tons of these products, compared to approximately 1.02 million tons in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. Some products are final products sold to customers, and others, including ammonia, are both final products and feedstocks for other final products. Final products shipped from the facility during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 totaled approximately 490,000 tons of ammonia and upgraded nitrogen products, compared to approximately 438,000 tons in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. Carbon dioxide shipments totaled approximately 107,000 tons and 95,000 tons in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table sets forth the East Dubuque Plant’s current rated production capacity for the listed nitrogen fertilizer products in tons per day. Capacity Plant (Tons per Day) UAN blending 1,100 Anhydrous ammonia 830 Carbon Dioxide 650 Ammonium nitrate 600 Urea synthesis 400 Nitric acid 380 Urea granulation 140 Products REMC’s product sales are heavily weighted toward sales of anhydrous ammonia and UAN, which make up over 80% of total revenues. A majority of REMC’s products are sold through a Distribution Agreement with Agrium U.S.A., Inc. (“Agrium”) with the exception of carbon dioxide which is sold to industrial customers, generally on a contract basis. Although anhydrous ammonia and UAN are substitutes, each has its own characteristics, and customer product preferences vary according to the crop planted, soil and weather conditions, regional farming practices, relative prices and the cost and availability of appropriate storage, handling and application equipment, which are different for each of these two products. Anhydrous Ammonia. REMC produces anhydrous ammonia (often referred to simply as “ammonia”), the simplest form of nitrogen fertilizer and the feedstock for the production of other nitrogen fertilizers. Ammonia is produced by reacting natural gas with steam and air at high temperatures and pressures in the presence of catalysts. The ammonia processing unit has a current rated capacity of 830 tons per day. Ammonia product storage consists of two 20,000 ton tanks in East Dubuque, Illinois and 15,000 tons of leased storage in Niota, Illinois. Ammonia is used in the production of all other products produced by the East Dubuque Plant, except carbon dioxide. Ammonia contains 82% nitrogen by weight and is generally the least expensive form of fertilizer per pound of nitrogen. However, because it must be kept under pressure or refrigerated in order to keep it in a liquid state, ammonia is more costly to store, ship and apply than other nitrogen fertilizer products and must be applied in the fall during cool weather after harvest, in the spring just before planting or as side dress after the plant emerges. When used as a fertilizer, ammonia must be injected into the soil by specialized equipment, and soil conditions can limit its application. UAN. UAN is produced by combining urea solution and ammonium nitrate solution. An aqueous solution of ammonium nitrate, referred to as AN, an intermediate in UAN manufacture, is produced in a separate AN unit by neutralizing nitric acid with ammonia. No solid ammonium nitrate is produced in the facility. UAN is a liquid fertilizer which has a slight ammonia odor and, unlike ammonia, it does not need to be refrigerated or pressurized when transported or stored. The East Dubuque Plant maintains two UAN storage tanks having a combined storage capacity of 80,000 tons. 12 Table of Contents As a liquid, UAN has many advantages over solid fertilizers and ammonia. UAN (typically sold in nitrogen concentrations of 28% and 32%) may be applied more uniformly than non-liquid products and may be mixed with various crop protection products or other nutrients, permitting the application of several materials simultaneously, thus reducing energy and labor costs. In addition, UAN, unlike ammonia, may be applied from ordinary tanks and trucks and can be applied to the soil either through spraying, injecting or through irrigation systems throughout the growing season. Moreover, due to its stable nature and due to the fact that it can be applied in the field along with other chemicals, UAN can be a preferred fertilizer choice for crops requiring soil surface applications (such as no-till row crops). Urea. Urea product is produced through the reaction of ammonia with carbon dioxide at high pressure and temperatures creating a molten product called Urea solution at a concentration of approximately 70%. Urea solution can be further processed through the urea granulation plant to create dry granular urea (46% nitrogen concentration), used for the production of UAN or sold directly to trade customers in its state as a urea solution. The facility has a 12,000 ton capacity bulk warehouse which may be used for dry bulk granular urea storage. Nitric Acid. REMC produces nitric acid through two separate nitric acid plants. Nitric acid is produced through the catalytic combustion of ammonia vapor in air over a platinum-rhodium (precious metals) catalyst gauze and absorption of the nitric oxide in weak acid. Nitric acid is either sold to third parties or used within the facility for the production of ammonium nitrate solution, as an intermediate from which UAN is produced. Limited storage capacity is currently available at the facility, but sufficient storage is available for efficient product loading. Storage capacity has not been a limiting factor in the sale of nitric acid. Carbon Dioxide. Carbon dioxide is a co-manufactured gaseous product in the manufacture of ammonia (approximately 1.1 tons of CO2 per ton of ammonia). Most plants vent the gas from their ammonia production to the atmosphere. The East Dubuque Plant utilizes CO2 in its urea production and has developed a market for the CO2 produced through conversion to a purified food grade liquid carbon dioxide. The CO2 is purified, compressed and chilled to condensing conditions. It is stored as a saturated liquid for later sale to various industrial customers. The facility is a certified producer of food grade liquid CO2 for the soft drink industry. The facility has storage capacity for approximately 1,900 tons of CO2. Negotiated contract agreements for CO2 allow for regular shipment of CO2 throughout the year, so the current storage capacity is adequate. Marketing and Distribution REMC has a Distribution Agreement with Agrium, pursuant to which Agrium is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to promote the sale of, and to solicit and secure orders from its customers for, nitrogen fertilizer products comprising ammonia, granular urea, UAN solutions and nitric acid and related nitrogen-based products manufactured at the East Dubuque Plant. REMC has typically sold more than 80% of the nitrogen fertilizer products manufactured at the facility through the Distribution Agreement with Agrium, and the remaining amounts directly to customers. REMC pays Agrium a commission for these services. REMC’s sales executives are typically directly involved with the customers who buy REMC’s products, and REMC’s management approves price, quantity, and other terms for each sale through Agrium. REMC’s rights under the Distribution Agreement include the right to store specified amounts of its ammonia at Agrium’s ammonia terminal in Niota, Illinois, for a monthly fee. CO2 is not sold to Agrium, but marketed by REMC, generally on a contract by contract basis. Seasonality and Volatility The fertilizer business is seasonal, based upon the planting, growing and harvesting cycles. Inventories must be accumulated to allow for customer shipments during the spring and fall fertilizer application seasons, and require significant storage capacity. The accumulation of inventory to be available for seasonal sales requires that working capital be available at REMC. This seasonality generally results in higher fertilizer prices during peak periods, with prices normally reaching their highest point in the spring, decreasing in the summer, and increasing again in the fall. Another seasonal factor affecting REMC is the ability to transport product via barges on the Mississippi River. During the winter, the Mississippi River cannot be used for transport due to lock closures. The river closure affects how REMC and its competitors can transport products and can impact profitability due to differences in transportation costs. Fertilizer products are sold both on the spot market for immediate delivery and under forward sale contracts for future delivery at fixed prices. The terms of the forward sale contracts, including the percentage of the purchase price paid as a down payment, can vary from season to season. Variations in the proportion of product sold through forward sales, and variations in the terms of the forward sale contracts can increase the seasonal volatility of cash flows and cause changes in the patterns of seasonal volatility from year-to-year. 13 Table of Contents Nitrogen fertilizer price levels are influenced by world supply and demand for ammonia and nitrogen-based products. Long-term demand is affected by population growth and rising living standards that determine food consumption. Shorter-term demand is affected by world economic conditions and international trade decisions. Supply is affected by increasing worldwide capacity and the availability of nitrogen product imports from major producing regions and countries such as the former Soviet Union, the Middle East, South America, Trinidad and China. There continue to be industry cycles of expansion and reduction of production facilities in response to the changes in market prices of natural gas and the demand for nitrogen fertilizer products. The following table shows tonnage of REMC’s products shipped by quarter for the last four fiscal years. For the Fiscal Years Ended September 30, 2010 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands of tons) First Quarter 124 115 171 160 Second Quarter 86 65 103 77 Third Quarter 206 203 170 209 Fourth Quarter 181 150 199 125 Total Tons Shipped for Fiscal Year 597 533 643 571 The highest volume of tons shipped is typically during the spring planting season during the third fiscal quarter and the next highest volume of tons shipped is typically after the fall harvest during the first fiscal quarter, although, as reflected in the table above, the seasonal patterns may change substantially year-to-year due to various circumstances including timing of or changes in the weather. These seasonal increases and decreases in demand can also cause sales prices to fluctuate accordingly. Raw Materials The principal raw material used to produce manufactured nitrogen products is natural gas. REMC has historically purchased natural gas in the spot market, through the use of forward purchase contracts, or a combination of both. Forward purchase contracts have historically been used to lock in pricing for a portion of the facility’s natural gas requirements. These forward purchase contracts are generally either fixed-price or index-priced, short term in nature and for a fixed supply quantity. REMC’s policy is to purchase under fixed-price forward contracts approximately enough gas to manufacture the products that have been sold under pre-sale contracts for later delivery, effectively fixing most of the gross margin on pre-sold product. REMC is able to purchase natural gas at competitive prices due to its connection to the Northern Illinois Gas Company (“NICOR”) distribution system and its proximity to the Northern Natural Gas pipeline. Natural gas purchased and used in production was approximately 9.5 billion cubic feet and 9.6 billion cubic feet in the 12 month periods ended September 30, 2010 and September 30, 2009, respectively. Natural gas prices have experienced significant fluctuations over the last few years. Prices increased in 2008 and declined in 2009 and 2010. The price changes have been driven by several factors, including changes in the demand for natural gas from industrial users, which is affected, in part, by the general conditions of the United States economy, and other factors. Seasonal fluctuations exist within each year resulting from various supply and demand factors, such as the severity of winter and its effect on the consumer demand for heating, and the severity of summer and its effect on industrial demand by utilities for electrical generation, among other factors. Several recent discoveries of large domestic natural gas deposits, combined with advances in technology for quickly and efficiently producing natural gas have caused large increases in the estimates of available reserves and production in the U.S., contributing to significant reductions in prices of natural gas. Changes in levels of natural gas prices and market prices of nitrogen-based products can materially affect REMC’s financial position and results of operations. Transportation Natural gas is transported to the East Dubuque Plant through a connection to the natural gas pipeline from NICOR. Products are shipped by barge, truck and rail. Over 70% of REMC’s products are typically transported by truck within a 150-mile radius of the plant. The facility can ship ammonia and UAN through a barge dock on the Mississippi River owned by REMC. The East Dubuque Plant owns a rail spur that connects to the Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway (“BNSF”). The Canadian National Railway Company services the East Dubuque Plant and has rights to travel on the BNSF main line. 14 Table of Contents Competition REMC competes with a number of domestic and foreign producers of nitrogen fertilizer products, many of which are larger than REMC. Customers for nitrogen fertilizer products make purchasing decisions principally on the delivered price and availability of the product at the critical application times. Our physical location in the center of the Midwest corn belt provides us with a strategic placement and transportation cost advantage, compared to other producers who have to ship their products greater distances to the corn belt. We plan to continue to operate the East Dubuque Plant with natural gas as the feedstock. Competitors who may have access to cheaper natural gas could have a cost advantage that would act to offset our location advantage. Intellectual Property and Patents of the Company We own 33 issued and 27 pending United States utility patents and patent applications pertaining to the Rentech Process, the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology, and related processes, including the applications of these processes, the products made by the Rentech Processes and the materials used in connection with the Rentech Processes. We protect certain technologies abroad in varying countries, presently holding 27 issued non-domestic patents and 83 pending non-domestic patent applications (all of which are counterparts to our United States utility patents). The Rentech Process uses our iron-based catalyst, which we have patented. We currently have several pending United States and foreign patent applications which claim improvements to certain aspects of the Rentech Process. Five of our patents are related to the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology and several of our patent applications deal with conditioning the syngas from the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology for use in the Rentech Process for production of synthetic fuels. The term of a utility patent is generally 20 years from the earliest priority date for the application in the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”). Patents that are in force on or that will issue on an application that was filed before June 8, 1995 have a term that is the greater of the 20 year term noted above or 17 years from the patent grant. Our issued patents will expire over a range of years from 2012 through 2026. Our most recent applications were filed in 2010. We have registered RENTECH® as a trademark and it is listed on the Primary Register of the USPTO. The use of RENTECH® as just the name, or with the stylized bubbles that comprise our corporate logo, will identify and distinguish our services from those of other companies. We have also registered or are in the process of registering the RENTECH® mark in certain foreign jurisdictions. We have registered or are in the process of registering RENJET®, RENCHEM® and RENDIESEL® as trademarks on the Primary Register of the USPTO and in Canada. The use of these trademarks identifies fuels and chemicals produced using the Rentech Process. We have also filed intent to use trademark applications domestically and in Canada for the mark RENPOWER™. These marks are representative of the names under the Rentech product umbrella that we intend to use for certain fuel, chemical and power products. We also maintain trade secrets and confidential proprietary information that we use in connection with our trademarked Rentech Process. The life of a trademark is indefinite as long as there is continual use of the mark. The term of our trade secrets and proprietary information is perpetual as long as we prevent public disclosure by keeping them secret and confidential and as long as they are not discovered by others. We typically protect our trade secrets and confidential proprietary information through non-disclosure agreements with parties with whom we do business. The success of our business, as well as that of our subsidiaries, depends upon the intellectual property that we own and use in the conduct of our business. We believe that our intellectual property gives us rights to exploit our technologies and to exclude others from making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing certain inventions throughout the United States and those jurisdictions in which we have secured rights, without our consent. If we lost the rights to exploit or exclusively exploit an intellectual property asset, the financial results of our business and our overall financial results and prospects would be materially harmed. 15 Table of Contents Regulation The ownership and operation of nitrogen fertilizer and alternative energy facilities are subject to extensive United States federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing and imposing liability for the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and on-site and off-site disposal of chemicals, byproducts, including waste water and spent catalyst, and hazardous wastes, worker health and safety, the investigation and cleanup of contamination at currently and formerly owned or operated sites, as well as third party sites that may have been impacted by our operations, and for natural resource damages related to any releases of hazardous substances. The Company’s facilities and operations must comply with these environmental laws and regulations. For example, under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), we could be held strictly or jointly and severally liable for the removal and remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our currently or formerly owned or operated facilities, at off-site properties (where migration of contamination from our facilities occurred) and at third party waste disposal sites at which our wastes were disposed. Because of our operations, the history of industrial or commercial uses at our currently and formerly owned and operated facilities, and the use, production, disposal and possible release of hazardous substances and wastes at or from those facilities, we may be subject to liability under environmental laws. We could also be subject to liability for personal injury based on human exposure to or natural resource damages from hazardous substances or wastes released or disposed of at or from our currently or formerly owned or operated facilities. In addition, some of our operations require environmental permits and controls to prevent or limit pollution to the environment. Compliance with laws, regulations and requisite permits could require us to curtail our operations or increase costs of designing, installing and operating our nitrogen fertilizer and alternative energy facilities. For example, emissions from those facilities may require the installation of costly pollution control equipment in order to meet applicable environment legal and permit requirements. Although we do not believe that costs for compliance with environmental and health and safety laws and regulations and applicable environmental permit requirements in connection with our current operations will have a material adverse effect on us, we cannot predict with certainty the future costs of complying with environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements or the costs that may be associated with investigation, remediating contamination or monitoring. The East Dubuque Plant has experienced some level of regulatory scrutiny in the past and we may be subject to further regulatory inspections, future requests for investigation relating to, or assertions of liability for, among other things, regulated materials management practices. In the future, we could incur material liabilities or costs related to environmental matters, and these environmental liabilities or costs (including fines or other sanctions) could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the engineering design and technical services we provide to our licensees may necessitate compliance with certain professional standards and other requirements. We believe we have all required licenses to conduct our operations and are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. However, the loss or revocation of any license or the limitation on any services thereunder could prevent us from conducting such services and could subject us to substantial fines. In addition, changes in these requirements (including those related to future climate change regulation) could adversely affect us. Implementation of Carbon Dioxide Emissions Reduction Strategy There has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state, national and international laws and regulations focusing on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and reduction. These proposed or promulgated regulations of GHG emissions apply or could apply to projects utilizing our technologies in countries where we currently have, or may in the future have, projects or customers. Laws in this field continue to evolve, and while it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation, such laws, if enacted, could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Examples of legislation or precursors for possible regulation that do or could affect our operations include: • The Kyoto Protocol which was initially adopted in 1997 and came into effect in 2005 with the goal of reducing certain greenhouse gas emissions, including carbon dioxide. A number of countries that are parties to the Kyoto Protocol have instituted or are considering climate change legislation and regulations, including the European Union’s Emissions Trading System (ETS), among others. • California’s Global Warming Solutions Act, or AB-32, which requires the California Air Resources Board (CARB) to develop regulations and market mechanisms that will ultimately reduce California’s GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. • The Greenhouse Gas Reduction Targets Act (GGRTA) enacted by the government of British Columbia, Canada in 2008 that seeks to reduce GHG emissions by at least 33 per cent below 2007 levels by 2020. It also includes the long-term target of an 80 percent reduction below 2007 levels by 2050. • The U.S. Supreme Court decision in Massachusetts v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497, 127 S.Ct. 1438 (2007) confirming that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has the authority to regulate carbon dioxide as an “air pollutant” under the Federal Clean Air Act. 16 Table of Contents • In December 2009, EPA issued a final endangerment finding for greenhouse gases, which specifically found that emissions of six greenhouse gases threaten the public health and welfare and that greenhouse gases from new motor vehicles and engines also contribute to such pollution. While these findings do not themselves impose any requirements on any industry or company at this time, these findings may lead to greater regulation of GHG emissions by the EPA, may trigger more climate-based claims for damages, and may result in longer agency review time for development projects to determine the extent of climate change. • EPA’s announcement on March 29, 2010 (published as “Interpretation of Regulations that Determine Pollutants Covered by Clean Air Act Permitting Programs,” 75 Fed. Reg. 17004 (April 2, 2010)), and the EPA’s and U.S. Department of Transportation’s joint promulgation of a Final Rule on April 1, 2010, which triggers regulation of GHGs under the Clean Air Act, may trigger more climate-based claims for damages, and may result in longer agency review time for development projects to determine the extent of climate change. The GHG policy of the United States currently favors voluntary actions to reduce emissions and continued research and technology development over near-term mandatory GHG emission reduction requirements. However, in the United States, there is growing consensus that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to GHG emissions. Such regulation could take any of several forms that result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes, the restriction of output, investments of capital to maintain compliance with laws and regulations, or required acquisition or trading of emission allowances. Rentech is actively participating in the evolution of federal policy on this issue and we are focused on initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly carbon dioxide. In the event that these legislative or regulatory initiatives increase the economic cost of emitting greenhouse gases, our businesses could be materially affected. The East Dubuque Plant is a significant emitter of greenhouse gases. The net effect on the East Dubuque Plant from such initiatives would depend on the baseline level of allowed emissions in any new carbon regulation regime, and their impact could result in significant costs for REMC. We are evaluating alternatives to reduce GHG emissions at our East Dubuque Plant. Our potential biomass energy projects are designed to produce low-carbon fuels and power, depending on the feedstock and its potential alternative uses, and they may benefit from carbon regulation. We do not expect to develop projects using fossil feedstocks without carbon capture and sequestration or some form of control regarding GHG emission, and we expect that such projects could have life-cycle carbon footprints equal to or better than those of petroleum-based fuels. Therefore, we expect that the impact of carbon regulation on our fossil projects may be neutral to positive, although we would expect to benefit substantially less from carbon regulation with respect to our fossil projects than our biomass projects. Employees and Labor Relations As of September 30, 2010, we had 167 non-unionized and salaried employees, and 85 unionized employees. We believe that we have good relations with our employees. REMC has one labor contract in place covering the unionized employees. This contract is effective until October 17, 2012. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries, including REMC, have experienced work stoppages in the recent past. Available Information Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed or furnished to the SEC, through our website, www.rentechinc.com. Materials we file with the SEC may be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding the Company that we file electronically with the SEC. ITEM 1A — RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain risk factors related to the Company’s business. The risk factors described below may not include all of the risk factors that could affect future results. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated as a result of these and various other factors, including those set forth in the Company’s other periodic and current reports filed with the SEC from time to time. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Liquidity, Financial Condition, and Results of Operations Our liquidity and capital resources are limited. We must raise substantial additional capital to execute our business plan and, in the event that currently expected sources of funding are not available, to fund working capital and to continue our operations. Competitors with superior access to capital may have a substantial advantage over us. Our liquidity and capital resources are limited. At September 30, 2010, we had working capital (current assets in excess of current liabilities) of $22.7 million, compared to working capital of $12.0 million at September 30, 2009. We generally consider our short-term liquidity requirements to consist of those items that are expected to be incurred within the next 12 months. In November 2010 REMC distributed the net proceeds of a $52 million incremental term loan to the Company for general corporate purposes. We expect REMC’s short-term liquidity needs to be met from cash on hand and cash generated from REMC’s operations, but a decline in REMC’s results, which have shown historical volatility, could reduce REMC’s cash flows. Our budgeted liquidity needs (other than those relating to REMC) that we expect to incur in the next 12 months include costs to complete FEED for the Rialto Project, to continue development of the Natchez Project and other projects, to operate the PDU, to continue research and development of Rentech’s technologies, to construct the ClearFuels Gasifier at the PDU, and for general working capital and administrative needs. We do not expect to require additional capital for these budgeted activities during the next twelve months. We do expect to require additional capital if we elect to pursue additional activities beyond our current budget, such as continuing the development of the Rialto Project beyond the FEED phase, funding the development of certain new technologies, or pursuing other projects beyond their current early development stages. Pre-FEED development activities for our projects require relatively low levels of spending. However, project development and licensing activities in our alternative energy business each require substantial amounts of capital resources. Project development requires capital for, among other things, scoping and feasibility studies, development activities, engineering, construction, and deposits paid to suppliers and parties who intend to purchase the power or fuel to be manufactured at our facilities. Licensing may require performance or other guarantees to be backed by financial guarantees or cash deposits. Our competitors who have superior access to capital may have a competitive advantage over us in these activities. In the event that capital needed to move beyond the budgeted activities were not available, we would not be able to advance our development projects beyond FEED (in the case of the Rialto Project) or into the feasibility or FEED stages (in the case of other projects). Our failure to raise additional capital when needed would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows and our ability to execute our business plan. We have never operated at a profit. If we do not achieve significant amounts of additional revenues and become profitable on an ongoing basis, we may be unable to continue our operations. We have a history of operating losses and have never operated at a profit. From our inception on December 18, 1981 through September 30, 2010, we have an accumulated deficit of $297.0 million. If we do not achieve significant amounts of revenues and operate at a profit on an ongoing basis in the future, we may be unable to continue our operations at their current level. Ultimately, our ability to remain in business will depend upon earning a profit from commercialization of the Rentech Process and deployment of the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology. We have not been able to achieve sustained commercial use of the technology as of this time. Failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. REMC’s operations may become unprofitable and may require substantial working capital financing. During fiscal years 2007 through 2010, REMC generated positive income from operations and positive cash flow from operations. However, during fiscal year 2006, although REMC provided positive cash flow from operations, it operated at a net loss. In prior fiscal years, the East Dubuque Plant operated by REMC sustained losses and negative cash flows from operations. The net loss in fiscal year 2006, was the result, among other things, of very difficult market conditions in its industry and rapidly rising costs of the natural gas feedstock and energy required to produce nitrogen fertilizers. REMC’s profits and cash flows are subject to changes in the prices for its products and its main input, natural gas, all of which are commodities. REMC’s profits depend on maintaining high rates of production of its products, and interruptions in plant operations could adversely affect profitability. In addition, REMC’s business is extremely seasonal, and the working capital requirements in its offseason are substantial. If REMC is not able to operate its nitrogen fertilizer facility at a profit or if REMC is not able to access a sufficient amount of additional financing for working capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations. As of September 30, 2010, our total indebtedness was $120.8 million. Of this amount, approximately $63.3 million of principal borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Agreement we executed on January 29, 2010 (as amended, the “2010 Credit Agreement”) and the remainder was our convertible notes due in 2013. Our indebtedness increased by approximately $32 million after September 30, 2010 as a result of entering into a Second Amendment and Second Incremental Loan Agreement. The obligations under the 2010 Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of most of our subsidiaries, including a pledge of the East Dubuque Plant and a pledge of the equity interests in most of our subsidiaries. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring all or a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore restricting or reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • incurring higher interest expense in the event of increases in the 2010 Credit Agreement’s variable interest rates; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who have greater capital resources; • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; and • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, which may restrict our activities, and the failure to comply with which could result in an event of default. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Failure to pay our indebtedness on time would constitute an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, which would give rise to our lenders’ ability to accelerate the obligations and seek other remedies against us. Continued recessionary conditions and the relative unavailability of credit have made it more difficult for companies to secure financing. If we are unable to access financing on terms and at a time acceptable to us for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our ability to obtain any financing when needed, whether through the issuance of new equity or debt securities or otherwise, and the terms of any such financing are dependent on, among other things, our financial condition, financial market conditions, general economic conditions and conditions within our industry, and numerous other factors. In the U.S., recent market and economic conditions continue to be challenging with tight credit conditions and no or slow growth. Throughout fiscal year 2010, continued concerns about the systemic impact of high unemployment rates, sovereign debt, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, and the U.S. real estate market contributed to continued lowered expectations for the U.S. economy. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Many lenders and institutional investors continue to be reluctant to provide funding to borrowers. If these market conditions continue, they could limit our ability to timely replace maturing liabilities, or access the capital markets or other sources of financing to meet our liquidity needs, resulting in a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. The issuance of shares of our common stock could result in the loss of our ability to use our net operating losses. As of September 30, 2010, we had approximately $165 million of tax net operating loss carryforwards. Realization of any benefit from our tax net operating losses is dependent on: (1) our ability to generate future taxable income and (2) the absence of certain future “ownership changes” of our common stock. An “ownership change,” as defined in the applicable federal income tax rules, would place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset any future taxable income we may generate. Such limitations, in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could effectively eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our net operating losses to offset any future taxable income. 19 Table of Contents It is likely that we have incurred one or more “ownership changes” in the past, in which case our ability to use our net operating losses may be limited. In addition, the issuance of shares of our common stock could cause an “ownership change” which would also limit our ability to use our net operating losses. Other issuances of shares of our common stock which could cause an “ownership change” include the issuance of shares of common stock upon future conversion or exercise of outstanding options and warrants. In this regard, we contemplate that we would need to issue a substantial amount of additional shares of our common stock (or securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for common stock) in connection with our proposed plans to finance the commercialization of our technologies and the implementation of our business plan. We may not be able to successfully manage our growing business. If we are successful in our plans to commercialize the Rentech Process and the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology by acquiring or developing alternative energy facilities, we would experience a period of rapid growth that could place significant additional demands on, and require us to expand, our management resources and information systems. The management of our growth will require, among other things, continued development of our internal controls and information systems and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our alternative energy projects under development are complex and very large in relation to projects that we have managed in the past. We have experienced cost over-runs and control weaknesses in the past. Our failure to effectively manage such projects and any such rapid growth could have a material adverse effect on us, our cash flows, our ability to raise capital in the future, and our operating results. Although ClearFuels has been consolidated with us for financial reporting purposes, we have not evaluated ClearFuels’ internal controls and the conclusion of our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting included in this report does not extend to ClearFuels’ internal controls. On September 3, 2010, we entered into a Project Support Agreement (the “Support Agreement”) with ClearFuels. Based on the execution of the Support Agreement, we reconsidered whether we were the primary beneficiary of ClearFuels. In September 2010, we determined that we are the primary beneficiary of ClearFuels, a variable interest entity, and began to consolidate ClearFuels with us for financial reporting purposes. However, our management has not evaluated ClearFuels’ internal controls and the conclusion of our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting described under “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” does not extend to the internal controls of ClearFuels. We have recorded total assets, net assets, revenue and net loss of $9.4 million, $9.3 million, $0, and $0.3 million, respectively, in our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 from the consolidation of ClearFuels. Management excluded ClearFuels from its report on internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you as to whether there are any material weaknesses in ClearFuels’ internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, we may not be able to accurately report ClearFuels’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, which in turn could significantly impact our ability to accurately report financial information relating to ClearFuels in this or other reports we file with the SEC. If we are unable to report information accurately in the reports we file with the SEC, or if there is a perception among investors that we are unable to do so, we could lose investor confidence and this could impair the value of our common stock, increase our cost of raising capital and other material adverse consequences. Risks Related to the Rentech Process and the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology We and our potential licensees may be unable to successfully or economically implement the Rentech Process or the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology at commercial-scale synthetic fuels or power plants. A variety of results necessary for successful operation of the Rentech Process and the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology could fail to occur at a commercial plant. Results that could cause commercial scale synthetic fuels or power plants to be unsuccessful, and require design revisions, include: • higher than anticipated capital and operating costs to design, construct or reconfigure and operate a plant using our technologies; 20 Table of Contents • reaction activity different than that demonstrated in laboratory, pilot, and demonstration plant operations, which could increase the amount of feedstock to convert into synthesis gas or catalyst or number of reactors required to convert synthesis gas into hydrocarbons; • shorter than anticipated catalyst life, which would require more frequent catalyst replacement or addition, catalyst purchases, or both; • insufficient catalyst separation from the crude wax product stream, which could either impair the operation of the product upgrading unit or increase the capital costs for the plant; • product upgrading catalyst sensitivities to impurities in the crude synthetic fuel products, which would impair the efficiency and economics of the product upgrade unit and require design revisions; • higher than anticipated costs for the catalyst and other materials used to operate a plant using the Rentech technologies; and • higher than anticipated levels of tar in the syngas using the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our capital and operating costs would increase. In addition, our projects or those of our licensees could experience mechanical difficulties, either related or unrelated to elements of the Rentech Process or the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology. Our failure to construct and operate a commercial scale synthetic fuels or gasification plant based on the Rentech technologies could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. We could have indemnification liabilities to potential licensees of our technology. We anticipate that our license agreements will require us to indemnify the licensee against specified losses relating to, among other things: • use of patent rights and technical information relating to the Rentech Process or the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology; • the possibility of infringing on the intellectual property of other parties; • failure of our technology to perform according to guaranteed specifications; and • acts or omissions by us in connection with our preparation of preliminary and final design packages for the licensee’s plant and approval of the licensee’s construction plans. Our indemnification obligations could result in substantial expenses and liabilities to us if intellectual property rights claims were to be made against us or our licensees, or if the plants fail to operate according to the preliminary plans. Our success substantially depends on the performance of our management team, project development team and technology group. The loss of key individuals within these groups would disrupt our business operations. Our successful implementation of our business plan is substantially dependent upon the contributions of our management team, project development team and technology group. Our ability to design, finance, construct, startup and operate plants or enter into licensing arrangements using our technologies is highly reliant on the knowledge and skills of these key personnel. Moreover, we rely on these personnel to conduct research and development of our processes, products, markets and costs, and the loss of such personnel would harm our ability to successfully compete. As a result, unexpected loss of the services of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. 21 Table of Contents Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which involves complexities and uncertainties. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. Our business and prospects depend largely upon our ability to maintain control of rights to exploit our intellectual property. Our published and issued patents both foreign and domestic provide us certain exclusive rights (subject to licenses we have granted to others) to exploit our technologies. Our existing patents might be infringed upon, invalidated or circumvented by others. The availability of patents in foreign markets, and the nature of any protection against competition that may be afforded by those patents, is often difficult to predict and varies significantly from country to country. We, or our licensees, may choose not to seek, or may be unable to obtain, patent protection in a country that could potentially be an important market for our technology. The confidentiality agreements that are designed to protect our trade secrets could be breached, and we might not have adequate remedies for the breach. Additionally, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how might otherwise become known or be independently discovered by others. We may not become aware of patents or rights of others that may have applicability in our technologies until after we have made a substantial investment in the development and commercialization of our technologies. Third parties may claim that we have infringed upon past, present or future technologies. Legal actions could be brought against us, our co-venturers or our licensees claiming damages and seeking an injunction that would prevent us, our co-venturers or our licensees from testing, marketing or commercializing the affected technologies. If an infringement action were successful, in addition to potential liability for damages by our joint venturers or our licensees, we could be subject to an injunction or required to obtain a license from a third party in order to continue to test, market or commercialize our affected technologies. Any required license might not be made available or, if available, might not be available on acceptable terms, and we could be prevented entirely from testing, marketing or commercializing the affected technology. We may have to expend substantial resources in litigation, enforcing our patents or defending against the infringement claims of others, or both. If we are unable to successfully maintain our technology against claims by others, our competitive position would be harmed and our revenues could be substantially reduced, and our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our technologies may not compete successfully against technologies developed by our competitors, many of whom have significantly more resources. The development of Fischer-Tropsch and biomass gasification technologies like ours is highly competitive. Several major integrated oil companies, as well as several smaller companies, have developed or are developing competing Fischer-Tropsch and gasification technologies that they may offer to license to our potential customers or use as the basis for a competing development project. Many of these companies, especially the major oil companies, have significantly more financial and other resources than we do to spend on developing, promoting, marketing and using their Fischer-Tropsch technology. In addition, several companies are developing biomass gasification technologies that compete with our Rentech-SilvaGas Technology. Advances by others in their technologies might lower the cost of processes that compete with our technologies. As our competitors continue to develop technologies, some part or all of our current technologies could become obsolete. Our ability to create and maintain technological advantages is critical to our future success. As new technologies develop, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. We may not be able to successfully develop or expend the financial resources necessary to acquire new technology. A reduction in government incentives for FT fuels or energy from biomass, or the relaxation of clean air and renewable energy requirements, could materially reduce the demand for FT fuels or energy from biomass and the economic feasibility of projects using our technologies. Federal and state law provides incentives for FT fuels, and technologies that produce FT fuels, such as the Rentech Process, and for energy produced from renewable feedstocks. For example, EPACT 2005 provides for tax credits, grants, loan guarantees and other incentives to stimulate coal gasification into FT fuels and chemicals. The RFS established volumetric blending requirements for renewable fuel applicable to refiners or importers of petroleum-based gasoline or diesel fuel, which we expect to be applicable to fuels produced at the Rialto Project. The ARRA provides a number of incentives and authority for loan guarantees for the development of projects such as our Rialto Project and other projects that we are pursuing. In addition, California law requires specific reductions in the carbon content of transportation fuels, as well as specific levels of the production of power from renewable resources. Certain federal regulations that restrict air pollution also provide an incentive for the use of FT fuels because they comply with the regulations in cases where conventional fuels might not. For further information on these government incentives and air pollution and renewable energy production requirements, see “Part I, Item 1. Business — Government Incentives”. A significant reduction in loan guarantees, tax credits or other government incentives for our Rialto Project would likely adversely impact the economic feasibility and our ability to obtain adequate financing for that project and could have a similar adverse impact on other projects utilizing our technology. Changes in law or policy also could result in a relaxation of the requirements relating to air pollution and renewable energy production, which could materially reduce the demand for FT fuels or energy from biomass. As a result, the reduction or elimination of government incentives or the relaxation of air pollution and renewable energy requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 22 Table of Contents Industry rejection of the Rentech Process or the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology would adversely affect our ability to receive future license fees. As is typical in the case of unfamiliar and/or rapidly evolving technologies, demand and industry acceptance of the Rentech Process or the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology is highly uncertain. Historically, most applications of FT processes have not produced fuels that were economical compared to the price of conventional fuel sources. Failure by the industry to accept our technology or to accept it as timely as we expect, whether due to unsuccessful use, results that are not economical, the novelty of our technology, the lower price of alternatively sourced fuels or for other reasons, would materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. If a high profile industry participant were to adopt the Rentech Process or the Rentech-SilvaGas Technology and fail to achieve success, or if any commercial FT plant based on our technology were to fail to achieve success, other industry participants’ perception of our technology could be adversely affected. That could adversely affect our ability to obtain future license fees and generate other revenue. In addition, some oil companies may be motivated to seek to prevent industry acceptance of FT technology in general, or our technology in particular, based on their belief that widespread adoption of FT technology might negatively impact their competitive position. Changes in existing laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of new restrictions relating to emissions of greenhouse gases or carbon dioxide may give rise to additional compliance costs or liabilities and could materially reduce the demand for FT fuels or the Rentech Process which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. The application of the Rentech Process in synthetic fuel projects often relies on gasification technology to create the syngas that is used to produce power, FT fuels and other hydrocarbon products. Coal gasification breaks down coal into its components by subjecting it to high temperature and pressure, using steam and measured amounts of oxygen, which leads to the production of gaseous compounds, including CO2. Although the United States does not currently maintain comprehensive regulation of CO2 emissions, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (such as CO2) are currently in various phases of discussion or implementation. These include without limit, the Kyoto Protocol, ETS, AB-32, GGRTA, EPA regulations, and other proposed laws or regulations each of which have imposed or would impose reductions in or other limitations on greenhouse gas emissions. Future restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions and continued political attention to issues concerning climate change, the role of human activity in it and potential mitigation through regulation could result in increased costs or liabilities associated with complying with such restrictions or regulations, or materially reduce the demand for FT fuels and the Rentech Process which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects. Risks Related to Possible Inability to Complete Project Developments and the Financing Required for Construction and Subsequent Operation We are pursuing alternative energy projects, including the Rialto and Natchez Projects, that will involve substantial expense and risk. We are pursuing opportunities to develop alternative energy projects, however we do not have the financing to complete any of these projects. Moreover, the pursuit of such opportunities requires that we incur material expenses, including for financial, legal and other advisors, whether or not our efforts are successful. From time to time, we may enter into letters of intent or memorandums of understanding relating to our projects, which may not proceed to completion for various reasons. Our pursuit of any of these alternative energy projects involves significant risks, and our failure to successfully develop these projects, or failure to operate them successfully after we have developed them, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The costs of constructing our projects depends substantially on general construction costs, including the costs for commodities such as steel, copper and concrete. Escalation of costs for these commodities or other construction costs may increase the cost of our projects substantially, potentially to the extent that the projects would no longer be economically feasible. 23 Table of Contents The construction of commercial scale projects that utilize our technology will require several years and substantial financing, and may not be successful. The engineering, design, procurement of materials, and construction necessary to build a commercial scale alternative energy production project that utilizes our technology could cost hundreds of millions of dollars for a smaller scale plant and up to billions of dollars for a larger facility. It could take at least 2 to 3 years to construct a commercial scale facility, or more time depending upon many factors, particularly the size and scope of the project. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing for the projects in the time required or at all, and our failure to do so would prevent us from implementing our business plan as expected. Moreover, we have never undertaken any such projects, and the duration, cost, and eventual success of our efforts are all uncertain. We may not be able to successfully negotiate and execute engineering, procurement and construction contracts with construction and other vendors necessary for our development projects. Construction of our proposed Rialto Project and Natchez Project and the development of other projects will require that we identify and arrive at acceptable contracts with construction and other vendors. Among these contracts required for development of a project may be an engineering, procurement and construction (“EPC”) contract that we seek to enter into with a prime contractor and with terms satisfactory to lenders in the project finance market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into such contracts on acceptable terms or at all, and our failure to do so would generally limit our access to project finance lenders who require that an acceptable EPC contract be in place before funding a project. If we are unable to enter into acceptable contracts with construction and other vendors related to our projects in the future, we would not be able to implement our business plan as expected and we would be materially adversely affected. The volatility in the price for certain commodities that we may purchase in the open market to use as feedstock; the price for oil and natural gas used to create fuels that compete with our fuels; and prices for electricity could adversely affect our ability to develop, build and operate commercial scale synthetic fuels and power plants or our ability to license our technology. The prices of commodities, such as petroleum coke, coal, or biomass that we might use as feedstock in commercial scale projects are subject to fluctuations due to a variety of factors that are beyond our control. Additionally, there is no commodities market for biomass, so its cost will vary depending upon numerous factors which we are unable to predict, but we anticipate will include, availability of the feedstock, costs of production of the feedstock and transportation costs. An increase in the price of commodities or a high cost for biomass which we may need to operate our projects could adversely affect our ability to develop, build and operate commercial scale synthetic fuels plants or our ability to license our technology. Additionally, the extreme volatility in the cost of crude oil results in significant variances in the market price of petroleum based fuels. For instance, during fiscal year 2008, the price of crude oil per barrel fluctuated from approximately $80, up to a high of $145, and dipped to as low as approximately $37 in fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2010, the price of crude oil per barrel fluctuated from approximately $70 to $86. As crude oil prices rose and fell, so did the price of gasoline and other petroleum-derived products. The price at which we can sell our synthetic fuels will be dependent upon the market price for petroleum based fuels despite the fact that our costs of feedstock may or may not correspond to the cost of crude oil. This discrepancy in cost may negatively impact our ability to develop, build and operate commercial scale synthetic fuels plants or our ability to license our technology. Risks Related to the East Dubuque Plant The market for natural gas has been volatile. If prices for natural gas increase significantly, we may not be able to economically operate the East Dubuque Plant. Our operation of the East Dubuque Plant with natural gas as the feedstock exposes us to market risk due to increases in natural gas prices. During 2008, natural gas prices spiked to near-record high prices. This was due to various supply and demand factors, including the increasing overall demand for natural gas from industrial users, which is affected, in part, by the general conditions of the United States economy, and other factors. The profitability of operating the facility is significantly dependent on the cost of natural gas as feedstock and the facility has operated in the past, and may operate in the future, at a net loss. Since we expect to purchase natural gas for use in the plant on the spot market we remain susceptible to fluctuations in the price of natural gas. We expect to also use short-term, fixed supply, fixed price forward purchase contracts to lock in pricing for a portion of our natural gas requirements. These may not protect us from increases in the cost of our feedstock. A hypothetical increase of $0.10 per MMBTU of natural gas would increase the cost to produce one ton of ammonia by approximately $3.50. Higher than anticipated costs for the catalyst and other materials used at the East Dubuque Plant could also adversely affect operating results. These increased costs could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. 24 Table of Contents Lower prices for nitrogen fertilizers or downturns in market demands could reduce the revenues and profitability of the East Dubuque Plant’s nitrogen fertilizer business. Nitrogen fertilizer is a global commodity that often experiences unpredictable fluctuations in demand and an increasing supply on the world-wide market. In the recent past, nitrogen fertilizer prices have been volatile, often experiencing price changes from one growing season to the next. A downturn in nitrogen prices could have a depressing effect on the prices of most of the fertilizer products that we sell, and might materially and adversely affect our ability to economically operate the East Dubuque Plant. A reduction in demand for corn or other crops could reduce demand for the nitrogen fertilizer produced by REMC. The demand for nitrogen fertilizer is closely tied to the demand for, and the price of, corn and other crops. Fluctuations in such demand could significantly affect the demand for and the price of nitrogen fertilizer. The demand for corn depends on, among other things, overall economic growth both in the U.S. and overseas, demand for grain-fed animals, and the demand for corn as a feedstock in the production of ethanol. Government mandates for production of ethanol are subject to change, and any reduction in such mandates could have a significant effect on demand for corn and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Weather conditions may materially impact the demand for REMC products. Weather conditions can have a significant impact on the farming economy and, consequently, on demand for the fertilizer products produced by the East Dubuque Plant. For example, adverse weather such as flood, drought or frost can cause a delay in, or even the cancellation of, planting, reducing the demand for fertilizer. Adverse weather conditions can also impact the financial position of the farmers who will buy our nitrogen fertilizer products. This, in turn, may adversely affect the ability of those farmers to meet their obligations in a timely manner, or at all. Accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The East Dubuque Plant is an aging facility with aging equipment that could fail. Any operational disruption at the plant could result in a reduction of sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. A prolonged disruption could materially affect the cash flow we expect from the plant, or lead to a default of the 2010 Credit Agreement. The East Dubuque Plant is an aging facility with aging equipment that could fail. The East Dubuque Plant may be subject to significant interruption if it were to experience a major accident, equipment failure or were damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, operations at the East Dubuque Plant are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing. Some of those hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Significant downtime at the East Dubuque Plant could significantly reduce the amount of product available for sale, which could reduce or eliminate profits and cash flows from REMC. Repairs to the plant in such circumstances could be expensive, and could be so extensive that the plant could not economically be placed back into service. We currently maintain property insurance, including business interruption insurance, but we may not have sufficient coverage, or may be unable in the future to obtain sufficient coverage at reasonable costs. A prolonged disruption at the East Dubuque Plant could materially affect the cash flow we expect from the plant, or lead to a default of the 2010 Credit Agreement. As a result, operational disruptions at the East Dubuque Plant could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The business of the East Dubuque Plant is highly seasonal. Sales of nitrogen fertilizer products from the East Dubuque Plant are seasonal, based upon the planting, growing and harvesting cycles. Most of the East Dubuque Plant’s annual sales have occurred between March and July of each year due to the condensed nature of the planting season. Since interim period operating results reflect the seasonal nature of our business, they are not indicative of results expected for the full fiscal year. In addition, results for comparable quarters can vary significantly from one year to the next due primarily to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchase patterns. We expect to incur substantial expenditures for fixed costs for the East Dubuque Plant throughout the year and substantial expenditures for inventory in advance of the spring planting season. Seasonality also relates to the limited windows of opportunity that nitrogen fertilizer customers have to complete required tasks at each stage of crop cultivation. Should events such as adverse weather or transportation interruptions occur during these seasonal windows, we would face the possibility of reduced revenue without the opportunity to recover until the following season. In addition, because of the seasonality of agriculture, we expect to face the risk of significant inventory carrying costs should our customers’ activities be curtailed during their normal seasons. The seasonality can negatively impact accounts receivable collections and increase bad debts. In addition, variations in the proportion of product sold through forward sales, and variances in the terms of the forward sales contracts can affect working capital requirements, and increase the seasonal and year-to-year volatility of cash flows. Access to storage facilities is critical to the profitable operation of the plant. If our access to storage were interrupted, profits could be affected. 25 Table of Contents The nitrogen fertilizer industry is very competitive and the actions of our competitors could materially affect the business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position of the Company. REMC operates in a highly competitive industry, particularly with respect to the price of its nitrogen fertilizer products. Its principal competitors in the distribution of crop production inputs include agricultural co-operatives (which have the largest market share in many of the locations that it serves), national and international fertilizer producers, major grain companies and independent distributors and brokers. Some of these competitors have greater financial, marketing and research and development resources than we do, or better name recognition, and can better withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, as a result of increased pricing pressures caused by competition, REMC may in the future experience reductions in its profit margins on sales, or may be unable to pass future input price increases on to its customers. We rely on Agrium as distributor of the nitrogen fertilizer products we produce at the East Dubuque Plant. We rely on Agrium as exclusive distributor of REMC’s products, pursuant to a Distribution Agreement between it and REMC. However, to the extent Agrium and we are not able to reach an agreement with respect to the purchase and sale of products, Agrium is under no obligation to sell such products. If we cannot reach an agreement with Agrium for the sale of products or its services to REMC terminate, we cannot assure you that we would be able to find other buyers for the products. Our inability to sell products manufactured at the East Dubuque Plant could result in significant losses and materially and adversely affect our business. We could be subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations arising from the production and distribution of nitrogen fertilizers and alternative energy products at our facilities. The production and distribution of nitrogen fertilizers at the East Dubuque Plant are subject to compliance with United States federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These regulations govern operations and use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of a variety of substances. For instance, under CERCLA, we could be held strictly or jointly and severally responsible for the removal and remediation of any hazardous substance contamination at our facilities, at neighboring properties (where migration from our facilities occurred) and at third party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for any consequences arising out of human exposure to these substances or other environmental damage. We may incur substantial costs to comply with these environmental, health and safety law requirements. We may also incur substantial costs for liabilities arising from past releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. In addition, we may discover currently unknown environmental problems or conditions. The discovery of currently unknown environmental problems or conditions, changes in environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or other unanticipated events could give rise to claims that may involve material expenditures or liabilities for us. We may be required to install additional pollution control equipment at the East Dubuque Plant in order to maintain compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations. We may be required to install additional air and water quality control equipment, such as low emission burners, scrubbers, ammonia sensors and continuous emission monitors, at our East Dubuque Plant in order to comply with applicable environmental requirements. Such investments would reduce income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on results of operations, cash flows, financial position or business. The imposition of new restrictions relating to emissions of carbon dioxide may give rise to material additional compliance costs, capital expenditures or liabilities at the East Dubuque Plant. The United States does not currently maintain comprehensive regulation of CO2 emissions. Various legislative and regulatory measures, including EPA regulations, to address greenhouse gas emissions (such as CO2) are currently in various phases of discussion or implementation. REMC has CO2 emissions which are in excess of CO2 that it captures and sells, that result from utilizing natural gas in both its operating process and fuel combustion. Future restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs for capital expenditures and liabilities associated with complying with such restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Market for Rentech Common Stock We have a substantial overhang of common stock and future sales of our common stock will cause substantial dilution and may negatively affect the market price of our shares. As of September 30, 2010, there were 221.7 million shares of our common stock outstanding. As of that date, we also had an aggregate of 36.9 million shares of common stock that may be issued upon exercise or conversion of outstanding convertible notes, restricted stock units, options and warrants. During fiscal year 2010, we issued an aggregate of 6.7 million shares of our common stock. During fiscal year 2009, we issued an aggregate of 45.6 million shares of our common stock which includes 14.5 million shares issued in connection with our acquisition of SilvaGas. In connection with that acquisition, we also agreed to issue up to a maximum of 11 million additional shares of our common stock as earn-out consideration. Also, during fiscal year 2009, we issued warrants to purchase 7.0 million shares of common stock in connection with amendments to our prior Credit Agreement and our investment in ClearFuels. In addition, we have one shelf registration statement covering $94.3 million aggregate offering price of securities (up to all of which could be issued as shares of common stock) for issuance in future financing transactions. We expect the sale of common stock and common stock equivalents in material amounts will be necessary to finance the progress of our business plan and operations. Certain holders of our securities have, and certain future holders are expected to be granted, rights to participate in or to require us to file registration statements with the SEC for resale of common stock. We may issue shares of stock to acquire companies or assets. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock into the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale, will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of other securities), or the perception that such sales could occur, may materially and adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. The market price of the Company’s common stock may decline. A lower stock price would result in more dilution if we issue shares to raise equity capital, and could prevent us from raising sufficient equity capital to implement our business plan. The market price of our stock may decline for a number of reasons, including if: • the construction of a commercial scale synthetic fuels plant, including the Rialto and Natchez Projects, or other plants is not completed in a timely, economical and efficient manner; • the construction of a commercial scale synthetic fuels plant, including the Rialto and Natchez Projects or other plants, does not yield the expected benefits to our revenues and profits as rapidly or to the extent that may be anticipated by financial or industry analysts, shareholders or other investors; • the effect of the construction of a commercial scale synthetic fuels plant, including the Rialto and Natchez Projects or other plants, on our consolidated financial statements is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts, shareholders or other investors; • our significant shareholders decide to dispose of their shares of common stock because of any of the above or other reasons; or • any of the other risks referred to in this section materialize. In the event that we seek to raise additional equity capital, a lower stock price would result in more dilution to our existing stockholders or could prevent us from raising sufficient equity capital to implement our business plan. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 27 Table of Contents 