Item 1A. Risk Factors Increasing Service Life. Advancing technology and competitive pressures have compelled original equipment automobile and parts manufacturers to use parts with longer service lives, which are covered by longer and more comprehensive warranties. This may have the effect of reducing demand for the Company's products by delaying the onset of repair conditions requiring their use. Competition for Shelf Space. Since the amount of space available to a retailer and other purchasers of our products is limited, our products compete with other automotive aftermarket products, some of which are entirely dissimilar and otherwise non-competitive (such as car waxes and engine oil), for shelf and floor space. No assurance can be given that additional space will be available in a customers' stores to support expansion of the number of products that we offer. Concentration of Sales to Certain Customers. A significant percentage of our sales has been, and will continue to be, concentrated among a relatively small number of customers. During 2005, 2004, and 2003, two customers (AutoZone and Advance) each accounted for more than 10% of net sales and in the aggregate accounted for 31%, 34%, and 31% of net sales, respectively. We anticipate that this concentration of sales among customers will continue in the future. The loss of a significant customer or a substantial decrease in sales to such a customer could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Business-Sales and Marketing." sections of this Form 10-K Annual Report. Concentrations of Credit Risk. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All cash equivalents are managed within established guidelines which limit the amount which may be invested with one issuer. A significant percentage of our accounts receivable have been, and will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of automotive retailers and warehouse distributors in the United States. Our five largest customers accounted for 77% of total accounts receivable as of December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004. Management continually monitors the credit terms and credit limits to these and other customers. Customer Terms. The automotive aftermarket has been consolidating over the past several years. As a result, many of our customers have grown larger and therefore have more leverage in negotiations. Customers press for extended payment terms and returns of slow moving product when negotiating with us. While we do our best to avoid such concessions, in some cases payment terms to customers have been extended and returns of product have exceeded historical levels. The product returns primarily affect our profit levels while terms extensions generally reduce operating cash flow and require additional capital to finance the business. We expect both of these trends to continue for the foreseeable future. Foreign Currency Fluctuations. In 2005, approximately 65% of our products were sold in a variety of foreign countries. The products generally are purchased through purchase orders with the purchase price specified in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we do not have exposure to fluctuations in the relationship between the dollar and various foreign currencies between the time of execution of the purchase order and payment for the product. However, weakness in the dollar has resulted in some materials price increases and pressure from several foreign suppliers to increase prices. To the extent that the dollar decreases in value to foreign currencies in the future or the present weakness in the dollar continues for a sustained period of time, the price of the product in dollars for new purchase orders may increase further. We make significant purchases of product from Chinese vendors. Prior to 2005, the Chinese Yuan exchange rate has been fixed against the U.S. Dollar since 1998. In July 2005, the Chinese government announced an immediate 2% revaluation of the Yuan against the U.S. Dollar and that going forward it will allow the Yuan to fluctuate against a basket of currencies. Since that time the Yuan has strengthened another 1% against the U.S. Dollar. Most experts believe that the value of the Yuan will increase further relative to the U.S. Dollar over the next few years. Such a move would most likely result in an increase in the cost of products that are purchased from China. Dependence on Senior Management. The success of our business will continue to be dependent upon Richard N. Berman, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and Steven L. Berman, Executive Vice Page 9 of 43 President, Secretary-Treasurer and Director. The loss of the services of one or both of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Dividend Policy. We do not intend to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Rather, we intend to retain our earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business. Control by Officers, Directors and Family Members. As of March 7, 2006, Richard N. Berman and Steven L. Berman, who are officers and directors of R&B, Inc., their father, Jordan S. Berman, and their brothers, Marc H. Berman and Fred B. Berman beneficially own approximately 41% of the outstanding Common Stock and are able to elect the Board of Directors, determine the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval (including certain fundamental transactions) and control the policies of the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding the Company's periodic or current reports under the Securities Act. 