Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Competition for Shelf Space. Since the amount of space available to a retailer and other purchasers of our products is limited, our products compete with other automotive aftermarket products, some of which are entirely dissimilar and otherwise non-competitive (such as car waxes and engine oil), for shelf and floor space. No assurance can be given that additional space will be available in our customers' stores to support expansion of the number of products that we offer. Concentration of Sales to Certain Customers. A significant percentage of our sales has been, and will continue to be, concentrated among a relatively small number of customers. During 2007 and 2006, three customers (AutoZone, Advance, and O’Reilly) each accounted for more than 10% of net sales and in the aggregate accounted for 38% and 40% of net sales, respectively. During 2005, two customers (AutoZone and Advance) each accounted for more than 10% of net sales and in the aggregate accounted for 31% of net sales. We anticipate that this concentration of sales among customers will continue in the future. The loss of a significant customer or a substantial decrease in sales to such a customer could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Business-Sales and Marketing" sections of this Form 10-K. Concentrations of Credit Risk. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. All cash equivalents are managed within established guidelines which limit the amount which may be invested with one issuer. A significant percentage of our accounts receivable have been, and will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of automotive retailers and warehouse distributors in the United States. Our five largest customers accounted for 71% and 73% of total accounts receivable as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively. Management continually monitors the credit terms and credit limits to these and other customers. Customer Terms. The automotive aftermarket has been consolidating over the past several years. As a result, many of our customers have grown larger and therefore have more leverage in negotiations. Customers press for extended payment terms and returns of slow moving product when negotiating with us. While we do our best to avoid such concessions, in some cases payment terms to customers have been extended and returns of product have exceeded historical levels. The product returns primarily affect our profit levels while terms extensions generally reduce operating cash flow and require additional capital to finance the business. We expect both of these trends to continue for the foreseeable future. Foreign Currency Fluctuations. In 2007, 73% of our products were purchased from suppliers located in a variety of foreign countries. The products generally are purchased through purchase orders with the purchase price specified in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we do not have exposure to fluctuations in the relationship between the dollar and various foreign currencies between the time of execution of the purchase order and payment for the product. However, weakness in the dollar has resulted in some materials price increases and pressure from several foreign suppliers to increase prices. To the extent that the dollar decreases in value to foreign currencies in the future or the present weakness in the dollar continues for a sustained period of time, the price of the product in dollars for new purchase orders may increase further. 8 Index The largest portion of our overseas purchases come from China. The value of the Chinese Yuan has increased relative to the U.S. Dollar since July 2005 when it was allowed to fluctuate against a basket of currencies. Most experts believe that the value of the Yuan will increase further relative to the U.S. Dollar over the next few years. Such a move would most likely result in an increase in the cost of products that are purchased from China. Dependence on Senior Management. The success of our business will continue to be dependent upon Richard N. Berman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and Steven L. Berman, President, Chief Operating Officer, Secretary-Treasurer and Director. The loss of the services of one or both of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Dividend Policy. We do not intend to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Rather, we intend to retain our earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business. Control by Officers, Directors and Family Members. As of March 3, 2008, Richard N. Berman and Steven L. Berman, who are officers and directors of Dorman Products, Inc., their father, Jordan S. Berman, and their brothers, Marc H. Berman and Fred B. Berman beneficially own approximately 42% of the outstanding Common Stock and are able to elect the Board of Directors, determine the outcome of most corporate actions requiring share-holder approval (including certain fundamental transactions) and control over our policies. Increase in OE Patent Filings. Recently, we have seen an increase in patent requests for new designs made by original equipment manufacturers. If original equipment manufacturers are able to obtain patents on new designs at a rate higher than historical levels, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling aftermarket products covered by such items, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Product Quality. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, reliability, quality, or compatibility problems in products after their production and sale to customers. Product quality problems could result in damage to reputation, loss of customers, a decrease in revenue, unexpected expenses, and a loss of market share. We have invested and will continue to invest in our engineering, design, and quality infrastructure in an effort to reduce and eventually eliminate these problems. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved comments from the Commission staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Act. 