Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. We May Lose Business to Competitors. Competition within the automotive aftermarket parts business is intense. We compete in North America with both original equipment parts manufacturers and with companies that, like us, supply parts only to the automotive aftermarket. We expect such competition to continue. Our inability to compete successfully in our industry could cause us to lose customers. Unfavorable Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business. Adverse changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or instability in the financial markets or credit markets may either lower demand for our products or increase our operational costs, or both. Such conditions may also materially impact our customers, suppliers and other parties with whom we do business. Our revenue will be adversely affected if demand for our products declines. The impact of unfavorable economic conditions may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for products they have purchased. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivables may increase and failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on those receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Loss or Decrease in Sales Among One of Our Top Customers Could Have a Substantial Negative Impact on Our Sales and Operating Results. A significant percentage of our sales has been, and will continue to be, concentrated among a relatively small number of customers. During 2010, four customers (AutoZone, Advance Auto, O’Reilly and Genuine Parts Co.) each accounted for more than 10% of net sales and in the aggregate accounted for 55% of net sales. During 2009 and 2008, three customers (AutoZone, Advance Auto, and O’Reilly) each accounted for more than 10% of net sales and in the aggregate accounted for 39% and 40% of net sales, respectively. We anticipate that this concentration of sales among customers will continue in the future. The loss of a significant customer or a substantial decrease in sales to such a customer could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. Customer Consolidation in the Automotive Aftermarket May Lead to Customer Contract Terms Less Favorable to Us Which May Negatively Impact Our Financial Results. The automotive aftermarket has been consolidating over the past several years. As a result, many of our customers have grown larger and therefore have more leverage in the arms-length negotiations of agreements with us for the sale of our products. 7 Table of Contents Customers may require us to provide extended payment terms and returns of slow moving product in order to obtain new or retain existing business. While we attempt to avoid or minimize such concessions, in some cases payment terms to customers have been extended and returns of product have exceeded historical levels. The product returns primarily affect our profit levels while payment terms extensions generally reduce operating cash flow and require additional capital to finance the business. We expect both of these trends to continue for the foreseeable future. The Cancellation or Rescheduling of Orders May Cause Our Operating Results to Fluctuate. The cancellation or rescheduling of orders may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Although we make every reasonable effort to maintain ongoing relationships with our customers, there is an ongoing risk that orders may be cancelled or rescheduled due to fluctuations in our customers’ business needs or overall market demand for our products. Additionally, although we serve more than 2,800 individual accounts, the cancellation or rescheduling of orders by larger customers may still have a material adverse effect on our operating results from time to time. Our Business May be Negatively Impacted By Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Our Dependence on Foreign Suppliers. In 2010, approximately 76% of our products were purchased from vendors in a variety of foreign countries. The products generally are purchased through purchase orders with the purchase price specified in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we do not have exposure to fluctuations in the relationship between the dollar and various foreign currencies between the time of execution of the purchase order and payment for the product. To the extent that the dollar decreases in value relative to foreign currencies in the future, the price of the product in dollars for new purchase orders may increase. The largest portion of our overseas purchases is from China. The value of the Chinese Yuan had been relatively constant relative to the U.S. dollar for approximately two years. However, since June 2010, it has increased approximately 3% relative to the U.S. Dollar. A continued increase in the value of the Yuan relative to the U.S. Dollar will likely result in an increase in the cost of products that we purchase from China. As a result of the magnitude of our foreign sourcing, our business may be subject to risks, including the following: • uncertainty caused by the elimination of import quotas and the possible imposition of additional quotas or antidumping or countervailing duties or other retaliatory or punitive trade measures; • imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; • significant devaluation of the dollar against foreign currencies; • restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries; • political instability, military conflict or terrorism involving the United States or any of the countries where our products are manufactured, which could cause a delay in transportation or an increase in costs of transportation, raw materials or finished product or otherwise disrupt our business operations; and • disease, epidemics and health-related concerns, such as swine flu, SARS or the mad cow or hoof and mouth disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and scrutiny and embargoing of goods produced in infected areas. If these risks limit or prevent us from acquiring products from foreign suppliers or significantly increase the cost of our products, our operations could be seriously disrupted until alternative suppliers are found, which could negatively impact our business. We Extend Credit to Our Customers Who May Be Unable to Pay In the Future. We regularly extend credit to our customers. A significant percentage of our accounts receivable have been, and will continue to be concentrated among a relatively small number of automotive retailers and automotive parts distributors in the United States. Our five largest customers accounted for 78% and 76% of total accounts receivable as of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009, respectively. Management continually monitors the credit terms and credit limits of these and other customers. If any of these customers were unable to pay, our business and financial condition would be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents The Loss of a Key Vendor Could Lead to Increased Costs and Lower Profit Margins. The majority of the products we sell are purchased from a number of foreign vendors. If any of our existing vendors fail to meet our needs, we believe that sufficient capacity exists in the open market to supply any shortfall that may result. Nevertheless, it is not always possible to replace a key vendor without a disruption in our operations and replacement of a significant vendor is often at higher prices. Limited Shelf Space May Adversely Affect Our Ability to Expand Our Product Offerings. Since the amount of space available to a retailer and other purchasers of our products is limited, our products compete with other automotive aftermarket products, some of which are entirely dissimilar and otherwise non-competitive (such as car waxes and engine oil), for shelf and floor space. No assurance can be given that additional space will be available in our customers’ stores to support the expansion of the number of products that we offer. If We Do Not Continue to Develop New Products and Bring Them to Market, Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations Could Be Materially Impacted. The development and production of new products is often accompanied by design and production delays and related costs typically associated with the development and production of new products. While we expect and plan for such delays and related costs, we cannot predict with precision the time and expense required to overcome these initial problems so that the products comply with specifications. There is a risk that we may not be able to introduce or bring to full-scale production new products as quickly as we expected in our product introduction plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. An Increase in Patent Filings by Original Equipment Manufacturers Could Negatively Impact Our Ability to Develop New Products. We have seen an increase in patent requests for new designs made by original equipment manufacturers. If original equipment manufacturers are able to obtain patents on new designs at a rate higher than historical levels, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling aftermarket products covered by such items until such patents expire, which could have an adverse impact on our business. Quality Problems with Our Products Could Damage Our Reputation and Adversely Affect Our Business. We have experienced, and in the future may experience, reliability, quality, or compatibility problems in products after their production and sale to customers. Product quality problems could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customers, a decrease in revenue, litigation, unexpected expenses, and a loss of market share. We have invested and will continue to invest in our engineering, design, and quality infrastructure in an effort to reduce and eventually eliminate these problems; however, there can be no assurance that we can successfully remedy all of these issues. To the extent we experience significant quality problems in the future our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted. Loss of Third-Party Transportation Providers Upon Whom We Depend or Increases in Fuel Prices Could Increase Our Costs or Cause a Disruption in Our Operations. We depend upon third-party transportation providers for delivery of our products to us and to our customers. Strikes, slowdowns, transportation disruptions or other conditions in the transportation industry, including, but not limited to, shortages of truck drivers, disruptions in rail service, decreases in ship building or increases in fuel prices, could increase our costs and disrupt our operations and our ability to service our customers on a timely basis. We May Not Properly Execute, or Realize Anticipated Cost Savings or Benefits from, Our Ongoing Information Technology Initiatives. Our success is partly dependent on properly executing, and realizing cost savings or other benefits from, our ongoing information technology initiatives. These initiatives are primarily designed to make us more efficient in the development, acquisition and distributions of our products, which is necessary in our highly competitive industry. These initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in an interruption to our business functions. 9 Table of Contents Unfavorable Results of Legal Proceedings Could Materially Adversely Affect Us. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary course of our business which are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Although we currently believe that resolving all of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, legal claims and proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainty and our view on these matters may change in the future. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and operating results. We Have No History of Paying Dividends. We do not intend to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Rather, we intend to retain our earnings, if any, for the operation and expansion of our business. Dorman’s Officers, Directors and Their Family Members Control the Company. As of March 1, 2011, Steven L. Berman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and director of Dorman Products, Inc., and his family members beneficially own approximately 43% of the outstanding Common Stock and are able to elect the Board of Directors, have a controlling influence over the outcome of most corporate actions requiring shareholder approval (including certain fundamental transactions) and the affairs of the Company. Our Success Depends on the Efforts of Our Management Team. The success of our business will continue to be dependent upon Steven L. Berman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Secretary and Treasurer, other executive officers and key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managers. The loss of the services of any of these individuals for an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business. We May be Exposed to Certain Regulatory and Financial Risks Related to Climate Change. Climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. Some scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. There are a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in June 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act that would phase-in significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions if enacted into law. The U.S. Senate is considering a different bill, and it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. Similarly, certain countries have adopted the Kyoto Protocol. These actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for components used in the manufacture of our products and freight costs. Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Healthcare Reform Legislation could have an Adverse Impact on our Business. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Patient Act”) as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures may have an impact on our business. While we are currently evaluating the potential effects of the Patient Act on our business, the impact could be extensive and may increase our employee healthcare-related costs. While the significant costs of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur after 2013 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a significant, material adverse impact on our business. 10 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant. The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers: Name Age Position with the Company Mathias J. Barton 51 Co-President Joseph M. Beretta 56 Co-President Steven L. Berman 51 Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Secretary-Treasurer, and Director Fred V. Frigo 54 Senior Vice President, Operations Thomas J. Knoblauch 54 Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary Matthew S. Kohnke 39 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Mathias J. Barton joined the Company in November 1999 as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. He became co-President of the Company in February, 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Barton was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Central Sprinkler Corporation, a manufacturer and distributor of automatic fire sprinklers, valves and component parts. From May 1989 to September 1998, Mr. Barton was employed by Rapidforms, Inc., most recently as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. He is a graduate of Temple University. Joseph M. Beretta joined the Company in January 2004 as Senior Vice President, Product. He became co-President of the Company in February, 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Beretta was employed by Cardone Industries, Inc., most recently as its Chief Operating Officer. Cardone is a re-manufacturer and supplier of automotive replacement parts. He is a graduate of Oral Roberts University. Steven L. Berman is Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Operating Officer, Secretary-Treasurer and a Director of the Company. Mr. Berman became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in January, 2011. He previously held the positions of President, Secretary-Treasurer and a director of the Company since October 24, 2007. He became Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer on January 30, 2011. Prior to October 24, 2007, he served as Executive Vice President, Secretary-Treasurer and a director of the Company since its inception in 1978. Since the inception of the Company in October 1978 until October 25, 2007, Mr. Berman served as Executive Vice President. He attended Temple University. Fred V. Frigo joined the Company in March 1997 as Director, Operations and was named Senior Vice President, Operations in September 2003. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Frigo was the Plant Manager for Cooper Industries (Federal Mogul), where he was responsible for their Wagner Brake Plant in Boston and following that the Wagner Lighting Operations in Boyertown, Pennsylvania. He is a graduate of Elmhurst College. Thomas J. Knoblauch joined the Company in April 2005 as Vice President and General Counsel. In May 2005, Mr. Knoblauch was appointed Assistant Secretary. Prior to joining the Company he was Corporate Counsel at SunGard Data Systems, Inc. from 1996 to 2000 and General Counsel at Rosenbluth International, Inc. from 2000 to May, 2005. He is a graduate of Widener University, St. Joseph’s University, the Widener University School of Law, and the Temple University Beasley School of Law Graduate Tax Program. Mr. Knoblauch is a member of both the Pennsylvania and New York Bar. Matthew S. Kohnke joined Dorman Products in May 2002 as Vice President - Corporate Controller. He became Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company in February, 2011. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kohnke worked for Arthur Andersen LLP, beginning as an intern in January 1992 and advancing to manager in the Audit and Business Advisory practice. He is a graduate of Villanova University. We have adopted a written code of ethics, “Our Values and Standards of Business Conduct,” which is applicable to all of our directors, officers and employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller and other executive officers identified pursuant to this Item 10 (collectively, the “Selected Officers”). In accordance with the SEC’s rules and regulations a copy of the code is posted on our website www.dormanproducts.com. We intend to disclose any changes in or waivers from our code of ethics applicable to any Selected Officer or director on our website at www.dormanproducts.com. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 