ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company operates in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The risks described below highlight some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect our operations. Additional risks we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We depend on long-term government contracts, some of which are only funded on an annual basis. If appropriations for funding are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year contract, we may not be able to realize all of our anticipated revenue and profits from that project. A substantial majority of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies and departments of national, state and local governments. During fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 71%, 64% and 61%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from contracts with government entities. Most government contracts are subject to the government's budgetary approval process. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program on a year-by-year basis, even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a program, the related contract is only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent fiscal year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing priorities for appropriation, changes in administration or control of legislatures and the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years on our government contracts, then we will not realize all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. For instance, a significant portion of historical funding for state and local transportation projects has come from the U.S. federal government through its "SAFETEA-LU" infrastructure funding program and predecessor programs. This $286 billion program covers federal fiscal years 2004-2009. Approximately 79% of the SAFETEA-LU funding is for highway programs, 18.5% is for transit programs and 2.5% is for other programs such as motor carrier safety, national highway traffic safety and research. A key uncertainty in the outlook for federal transportation funding in the United States is the future viability of the Highway Trust Fund, which has experienced shortfalls due to a decrease in the federal gas tax receipts that fund it. In September 2008, the President signed HR 6532, a bill to amend the Internal Revenue Code to restore the Highway Trust Fund balance, transferring funds from the general Treasury to the Highway Trust Fund to provide for the funding of authorized federal transportation priorities through the end of fiscal year 2009. This raises concerns about the future funding structure for federal highway programs, particularly after SAFETEA-LU expires on December 18, 2009. Governmental agencies may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, we may suffer a decline in revenue. Most government contracts may be modified, curtailed or terminated by the government either at its convenience or upon the default of the contractor. If the government terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profits from that contract. If the government terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in obtaining services from another source. 13 Table of Contents Demand for our services is cyclical and may be vulnerable to sudden economic downturns and reductions in government and private industry spending. If the economy remains depressed or further weakens, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Demand for our services is cyclical and may be vulnerable to sudden economic downturns and reductions in government and private industry spending, which may result in clients delaying, curtailing or canceling proposed and existing projects. Due to the continuing economic downturn in the U.S. and international markets and severe tightening of the global credit markets, some of our clients may face considerable budget shortfalls that may limit their overall demand for our services. In addition, our clients may find it more difficult to raise capital in the future to fund their projects due to uncertainty in the municipal and general credit markets. Also, the global demand for commodities has increased raw material costs, which will cause our clients' projects to increase in overall cost and may result in the more rapid depletion of the funds that are available to our clients to spend on projects. Because of an overall weakening economy, our clients may demand more favorable pricing or other terms while their ability to pay our invoices or to pay them in a timely manner may be adversely affected. Our government clients may face budget deficits that prohibit them from funding proposed and existing projects. If the economy continues to weaken and/or government spending is reduced, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Our contracts with governmental agencies are subject to audit, which could result in adjustments to reimbursable contract costs or, if we are charged with wrongdoing, possible temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government programs. Our books and records are subject to audit by the various governmental agencies we serve and their representatives. These audits can result in adjustments to the amount of contract costs we believe are reimbursable by the agencies and the amount of our overhead costs allocated to the agencies. In addition, if one of our subsidiaries is charged with wrongdoing as a result of an audit, that subsidiary, and possibly our company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or could be prohibited from bidding on and receiving future government contracts for a period of time. Furthermore, as a large government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not, the results of which could adversely impact our business. A delay in the completion of the budget process of government agencies could delay procurement of our services and have an adverse effect on our future revenue. In years when the U.S. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a "continuing resolution" that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, government agencies may delay the procurement of services, which could reduce our future revenue. Delays in the budgetary processes of states or other jurisdictions may similarly have adverse effects on our future revenue. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by losses under fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts require us to either perform all work under the contract for a specified lump-sum or to perform an estimated number of units of work at an agreed price per unit, with the total payment determined by the actual number of units performed. In fiscal 2009, approximately 38% of our revenue was recognized under fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts are more frequently used outside of the United States and, thus, the exposures resulting from fixed-price contracts may increase as we increase our business operations outside of the United States. Fixed-price contracts expose us to a 14 Table of Contents number of risks not inherent in cost-plus and time and material contracts, including underestimation of costs, ambiguities in specifications, unforeseen costs or difficulties, problems with new technologies, delays beyond our control, failures of subcontractors to perform and economic or other changes that may occur during the contract period. Losses under fixed- price contracts could be substantial and adversely impact our results of operations. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint venture entities, over which we may have limited control. Approximately 20% of our fiscal 2009 revenue was derived from our operations through joint ventures or similar partnership arrangements, where control may be shared with unaffiliated third parties. As with most joint venture arrangements, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or disputes. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, and we typically have joint and several liability with our joint venture partners under the applicable contracts for joint venture projects. These factors could potentially adversely impact the business and operations of a joint venture and, in turn, our business and operations. Operating through joint ventures in which we are minority holders results in us having limited control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal controls relating to projects. Of the joint ventures noted above, approximately 8% of our fiscal 2009 revenue was derived from our unconsolidated joint ventures where we generally do not have control of the joint venture. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control problems may arise with respect to these joint ventures, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Misconduct by our employees or consultants or our failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to our business could cause us to lose customers or lose our ability to contract with government agencies. As a government contractor, misconduct, fraud or other improper activities caused by our employees' or consultants' failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with federal procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, and anti-corruption, export control and other applicable laws or regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, misconduct by any of our employees or consultants or our failure to make timely and accurate certifications to government agencies regarding misconduct or potential misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, cancellation of contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with government agencies, any of which may adversely affect our business. Our defined benefit plans have significant deficits that could grow in the future and cause us to incur additional costs. We have defined benefit pension plans for employees in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, Canada and Philippines. At September 30, 2009, our defined benefit pension plans had an aggregate deficit (the excess of projected benefit obligations over the fair value of plan assets) of approximately $132.5 million. In the future, our pension deficits may increase or decrease depending on changes in the levels of interest rates, pension plan performance and other factors. Because the current economic environment has resulted in declining investment returns and interest rates, we may be required to make additional cash contributions to our pension plans and recognize further increases in our net pension cost to satisfy our funding requirements. If we are forced or elect to make up all or a portion of the deficit for unfunded benefit plans, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents Our operations worldwide expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries as well as currency exchange rate fluctuations that could harm our business and financial results. During fiscal 2009, revenue attributable to our services provided outside of the United States was approximately 54% of our total revenue. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: •imposition of governmental controls and changes in laws, regulations or policies; •political and economic instability; •civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war, or other armed conflict; •changes in U.S. and other national government trade policies affecting the markets for our services; •changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and taxes; •potential non-compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including anti-corruption, export control and anti-boycott laws and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations; •changes in labor conditions; •logistical and communication challenges; and •currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations and other conversion restrictions. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We operate in many different jurisdictions and we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our internal policies mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance programs, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Our continued expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations in the future. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or material costs to us. Some of our services are performed in high-risk locations, such as Iraq and Afghanistan, where the country or location is suffering from political, social or economic problems, or war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur material costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk. Acts of terrorism and threats of armed conflicts in or around various areas in which we operate could limit or disrupt markets and our operations, including disruptions resulting from the evacuation of personnel, cancellation of contracts, or the loss of key employees and contractors or assets. 16 Table of Contents Failure to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may inhibit our growth. We have grown in part as a result of our acquisitions over the last several years, and we expect continued growth in the form of additional acquisitions and expansion into new markets. If we are unable to pursue suitable acquisition opportunities, as a result of global economic uncertainty or other factors, our growth may be inhibited. We cannot assure you that suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities will continue to be identified or that any of these transactions can be consummated on favorable terms or at all. Any future acquisitions will involve various inherent risks, such as: •our ability to accurately assess the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; •the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; •increased burdens on our staff and on our administrative, internal control and operating systems, which may hinder our legal and regulatory compliance activities; •post-acquisition integration challenges; and •post-acquisition deterioration in an acquired business that could result in lower or negative earnings contribution and/or goodwill impairment charges. Furthermore, during the acquisition process and thereafter, our management may need to assume significant transaction-related responsibilities, which may cause them to divert their attention from our existing operations. If our management is unable to successfully integrate acquired companies or implement our growth strategy, our operating results could be harmed. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will continue to successfully expand or that growth or expansion will result in profitability. Our ability to grow and to compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of our key technical and management personnel and identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. There is strong competition for qualified technical and management personnel in the sectors in which we compete. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified technical and management personnel, such as engineers, architects and project managers, who are necessary for the development of our business or to replace qualified personnel. Our planned growth may place increased demands on our resources and will likely require the addition of technical and management personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. Also, some of our personnel hold security clearances required to obtain government projects; if we were to lose some or all of these personnel, they would be difficult to replace. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key technical and management personnel could limit our ability to complete existing projects successfully and to successfully compete for new projects. Our revenue and growth prospects may be harmed if we or our employees are unable to obtain the security clearances or other qualifications we and they need to perform services for our customers. A number of government programs require contractors to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees are unable to obtain or retain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business, and our existing customers could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, we may not derive the revenue or profit anticipated from such contract. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenue, profitability and market share. We are engaged in a highly competitive business. The extent of competition varies with the types of services provided and the locations of the projects. Generally, we compete on the bases of technical and 17 Table of Contents management capability, personnel qualifications and availability, geographic presence, experience and price. Increased competition may result in our inability to win bids for future projects and loss of revenue, profitability and market share. If we extend a significant portion of our credit to clients in a specific geographic area or industry, we may experience disproportionately high levels of default if those clients are adversely affected by factors particular to their geographic area or industry. Our clients include public and private entities that have been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted by the changing landscape in the global economy. While outside of the U.S. federal government no one client accounts for over 10% of our revenue, we face collection risk as a normal part of our business where we perform services and subsequently bill our clients for such services. In the event that we have concentrated credit risk from clients in a specific geographic area or industry, continuing negative trends or a worsening in the financial condition of that specific geographic area or industry could make us susceptible to disproportionately high levels of default by those clients. Such defaults could materially adversely impact our revenues and our results of operations. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may substantially exceed the fees that we derive from our services. In addition, we sometimes contractually assume liability under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of potential liabilities from the operation of our business. Our professional liability policies cover only claims made during the term of the policy. Additionally, our insurance policies may not protect us against potential liability due to various exclusions in the policies and self-insured retention amounts. Partially or completely uninsured claims, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and thus, may not accurately reflect future revenue and profits. At September 30, 2009, our contracted backlog was approximately $5.4 billion and our awarded backlog was approximately $4.1 billion for a total backlog of $9.5 billion. Our contracted backlog includes revenue we expect to record in the future from signed contracts, and in the case of a public sector client, where the project has been funded. Our awarded backlog includes revenue we expect to record in the future where we have been awarded the work, but the contractual agreement has not yet been signed. We cannot guarantee that future revenue will be realized from either category of backlog or, if realized, will result in profits. Many projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time because of the size or long-term nature of the contract. In addition, from time to time projects are delayed, scaled back or cancelled. These types of backlog reductions adversely affect the revenue and profits that we ultimately receive from contracts reflected in our backlog. We have submitted claims to clients for work we performed beyond the initial scope of some of our contracts. If these clients do not approve these claims, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We typically have pending claims submitted under some of our contracts for payment of work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements for which we have already recorded revenue. In general, we cannot guarantee that such claims will be approved in whole, in part, or at all. If these claims are not approved, our revenue may be reduced in future periods. 18 Table of Contents In conducting our business, we depend on other contractors and subcontractors. If these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our revenue, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on contractors and subcontractors in conducting our business. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized and/or we could be held responsible for such failures. We also rely on relationships with other contractors when we act as their subcontractor or joint venture partner. Our future revenue and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or joint venture relationships with us, or if a government agency terminates or reduces these other contractors' programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. In addition, due to "pay when paid" provisions that are common in subcontracts in certain countries, including the U.S., we could experience delays in receiving payment if the prime contractor experiences payment delays. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including: •the spending cycle of our public sector clients; •employee hiring and utilization rates; •the number and significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; •the ability of clients to terminate engagements without penalties; •the ability of our project managers to accurately estimate the percentage of the project completed; •delays incurred as a result of weather conditions; •delays incurred in connection with an engagement; •the size and scope of engagements; •the timing and magnitude of expenses incurred for, or savings realized from, corporate initiatives; •changes in foreign currency rates; •the seasonality of our business; •the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets; and •general economic and political conditions. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. We rely heavily on computer, information and communications technology and related systems in order to properly operate. From time to time, we experience occasional system interruptions and delays. If we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of and protect our systems, systems operation 19 Table of Contents could be interrupted or delayed. In addition, our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic security breaches and similar events or disruptions. Any of these or other events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, or delay or prevent operations, and adversely affect our operating results. Failure to adequately protect, maintain, or enforce our rights in our intellectual property may adversely limit our competitive position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of intellectual property policies and other contractual arrangements to protect much of our intellectual property where we do not believe that trademark, patent or copyright protection is appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are generally difficult to protect. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent misappropriation of our confidential information and/or the infringement of our patents and copyrights. Further, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to adequately protect, maintain, or enforce our intellectual property rights may adversely limit our competitive position. Our charter documents contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include the following: •division of our Board of Directors into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; •removal of directors for cause only; •ability of our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock in series without stockholder approval; •two-thirds stockholder vote requirement to approve specified business combinations, which include a sale of substantially all of our assets; •vesting of exclusive authority in our Board of Directors to determine the size of the board (subject to limited exceptions) and to fill vacancies; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to our Board of Directors; and •prohibitions on our stockholders from acting by written consent and limitations on calling special meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 