ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We depend on long-term government contracts, some of which are only funded on an annual basis. If appropriations for funding are not made in subsequent years of a multiple-year contract, we may not be able to realize all of our anticipated revenue and profits from that project. A substantial majority of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies and departments of national, state and local governments. During fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 61%, 63% and 75%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from contracts with government entities. Most government contracts are subject to the government's budgetary approval process. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program on a year-by-year basis, even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a program, the related contract is only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent fiscal year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing priorities for appropriation, changes in administration or control of legislatures and the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years on our government contracts, then we will not realize all of our potential revenue and profit from that contract. Governmental agencies may modify, curtail or terminate our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, we may suffer a decline in revenue. Most government contracts may be modified, curtailed or terminated by the government either at its convenience or upon the default of the contractor. If the government terminates a contract at its convenience, then we typically are able to recover only costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination, which could prevent us from recognizing all of our potential revenue and profits from that contract. If the government terminates the contract due to our default, we could be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in obtaining services from another source. A delay in the completion of the budget process of government agencies could delay procurement of our services and have an adverse effect on our future revenue. In years when the U.S. government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year on September 30, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a "continuing resolution" that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, government agencies may delay the procurement of services, which could reduce our future revenue. Delays in the budgetary processes of states or other jurisdictions may similarly have adverse effects on our future revenue. Our contracts with governmental agencies are subject to audit, which could result in adjustments to reimbursable contract costs or, if we are charged with wrongdoing, possible temporary or permanent suspension from participating in government programs. Our books and records are subject to audit by the various governmental agencies we serve and their representatives. These audits can result in adjustments to the amount of contract costs we believe are reimbursable by the agencies and the amount of our overhead costs allocated to the agencies. In addition, if one of our subsidiaries is charged with wrongdoing as a result of an audit, that subsidiary, and possibly our company as a whole, could be temporarily suspended or could be prohibited from bidding on and receiving future government contracts for a period of time. Furthermore, as a government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not, the results of which could harm our business. 11 Our business and operating results could be adversely affected by losses under fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts require us to either perform all work under the contract for a specified lump-sum or to perform an estimated number of units of work at an agreed price per unit, with the total payment determined by the actual number of units performed. In fiscal 2007, approximately 37% of our revenue was recognized under fixed-price contracts. Fixed-price contracts are the predominant method of contracting outside of the United States and our exposure to fixed-price contracts will likely increase as we increase the non-U.S. portions of our business. Fixed-price contracts expose us to a number of risks not inherent in cost-plus and time and material contracts, including underestimation of costs, ambiguities in specifications, unforeseen costs or difficulties, problems with new technologies, delays beyond our control, failures of subcontractors to perform and economic or other changes that may occur during the contract period. Losses under fixed- price contracts could be substantial and harm our results of operations. See "Business—Contracts" for further detail regarding our types of contracting methods. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint venture entities, over which we may have limited control. Approximately 27% of our fiscal 2007 revenue was derived from our operations through joint ventures or similar partner arrangements, where control may be shared with unaffiliated third parties. As with most joint venture arrangements, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions or disputes. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, and we typically have joint and several liability with our joint venture partners under the applicable contracts for joint venture projects. These factors could potentially harm the business and operations of a joint venture and, in turn, our business and operations. Operating through joint ventures in which we are minority holders results in us having limited control over many decisions made with respect to projects and internal controls relating to projects. Approximately 12% of our fiscal 2007 revenue was derived from our unconsolidated joint ventures where we generally do not have control of the joint venture. These joint ventures may not be subject to the same requirements regarding internal controls and internal control over financial reporting that we follow. As a result, internal control problems may arise with respect to the joint ventures, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Misconduct by our employees or consultants or our failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to our business could cause us to lose customers or lose our ability to contract with government agencies. As a government contractor, misconduct, fraud or other improper activities by our employees or consultants failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a significant negative impact on our business and reputation. Such misconduct could include the failure to comply with federal procurement regulations, regulations regarding the protection of classified information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, regulations on lobbying or similar activities, and other applicable laws or regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, misconduct by any of our employees or consultants or our failure to make timely and accurate certifications to government agencies regarding misconduct or potential misconduct could subject us to fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, cancellation of contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with government agencies, any of which may adversely affect our business. Our defined benefit plans have significant deficits that could grow in the future and cause us to incur additional costs. We have defined benefit pension plans for employees in the United States, United Kingdom and Australia. At September 30, 2007, our defined benefit pension plans had an aggregate deficit (the excess of projected benefit obligations over the fair value of plan assets) of $68.7 million. In the future, our pension deficits may increase or decrease depending on changes in the levels of interest rates, pension plan performance and other factors. If we are forced or elect to make up all or a portion of the deficit for unfunded benefit plans, our profits could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Our operations worldwide expose us to legal, political and economic risks in different countries as well as currency exchange rate fluctuations that could harm our business and financial results. During fiscal 2007, revenue attributable to our services provided outside of the United States was approximately 51% of our total revenue. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: •imposition of governmental controls and changes in laws, regulations or policies; •political and economic instability; •changes in U.S. and other national government trade policies affecting the markets for our services; •changes in regulatory practices, tariffs and taxes; •potential non-compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practice Act and similar non-U.S. laws and regulations; and •currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluations and other conversion restrictions. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We work in international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or material costs to us. Some of our services are performed in high-risk locations, such as Iraq and Afghanistan, where the country or location is suffering from political, social or economic problems, or war or civil unrest. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur material costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may suffer the loss of key employees and contractors, which could harm our business. Failure to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may inhibit our growth. We have grown in part as a result of our acquisitions over the last several years, and we expect continued growth in the form of additional acquisitions and expansion into new markets. We cannot assure you that suitable acquisitions or investment opportunities will continue to be identified or that any of these transactions can be consummated on favorable terms or at all. Any future acquisitions will involve various inherent risks, such as: •our ability to accurately assess the value, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; •the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; •increased burdens on our staff and on our administrative, internal control and operating systems, which may hinder our legal and regulatory compliance activities; •post-acquisition integration challenges; and •post-acquisition deterioration in an acquired business that could result in goodwill impairment charges. Furthermore, during the acquisition process and thereafter, our management may need to assume significant transaction-related responsibilities, which may cause them to divert their attention from our existing operations. If our management is unable to successfully integrate acquired companies or implement our growth strategy, our operating results could be harmed. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will continue to successfully expand or that growth or expansion will result in profitability. 13 Our ability to grow and to compete in our industry will be harmed if we do not retain the continued services of our key technical and management personnel and identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. There is strong competition for qualified technical and management personnel in the sectors in which we compete. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified technical and management personnel, such as engineers, architects and project managers, who are necessary for the development of our business or to replace qualified personnel. Our planned growth may place increased demands on our resources and will likely require the addition of technical and management personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing personnel. Also, some of our personnel hold security clearances required to obtain government projects; if we were to lose some or all of these personnel, they would be difficult to replace. Loss of the services of, or failure to recruit, key technical and management personnel could limit our ability to complete existing projects successfully and to compete for new projects. Additionally, in the past, we have promoted our employee ownership culture as a competitive advantage in recruiting and retaining employees. Although we intend to retain the essential elements of an employee ownership culture and do not intend to change our core values and operating philosophy, if our employees or recruits perceive that our change in May 2007 to a publicly-traded company has negatively impacted our company culture, our ability to recruit and retain employees may be adversely impacted. Our revenue and growth prospects may be harmed if we or our employees are unable to obtain the security clearances or other qualifications we and they need to perform services for our customers. A number of government programs require contractors to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees are unable to obtain or retain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business, and our existing customers could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we cannot obtain or maintain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract. Our industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenue, profitability and market share. We are engaged in a highly competitive business. The extent of competition varies with the types of services provided and the locations of the projects. Generally, we compete on the bases of technical and management capability, personnel qualifications and availability, geographic presence, experience and price. Increased competition may result in our inability to win bids for future projects and loss of revenue, profitability and market share. Our services expose us to significant risks of liability and our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. Our services involve significant risks of professional and other liabilities that may substantially exceed the fees that we derive from our services. In addition, we sometimes contractually assume liability under indemnification agreements. We cannot predict the magnitude of potential liabilities from the operation of our business. Our professional liability policies cover only claims made during the term of the policy. Additionally, our insurance policies may not protect us against potential liability due to various exclusions in the policies and self-insured retention amounts. Partially or completely uninsured claims, if successful and of significant magnitude, could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and thus, may not accurately reflect future revenue and profits. At September 30, 2007, our backlog of uncompleted projects under contract was approximately $3.0 billion and our selected-not-booked backlog was approximately $3.0 billion for a total of $6.0 billion. Our backlog includes revenue we expect to record in the future from signed contracts, and in the case of a 14 public client, where the project has been funded. Our selected-not-booked backlog includes revenue we expect to record in the future where we have been awarded the work, but the contractual agreement has not yet been completed. We cannot guarantee that future revenue will be realized from either category of backlog or, if realized, will result in profits. Many projects may remain in our backlog for an extended period of time because of the size or long-term nature of the contract. In addition, from time to time projects are delayed, scaled back or cancelled. These types of backlog reductions adversely affect the revenue and profits that we ultimately receive from contracts reflected in our backlog. We have submitted claims to clients for work we performed beyond the scope of some of our contracts. If these clients do not approve these claims, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We typically have pending claims submitted under some of our contracts for payment of work performed beyond the initial contractual requirements for which we have already recorded revenue. In general, we cannot guarantee that such claims will be approved in whole, in part, or at all. If these claims are not approved, our revenue may be reduced in future periods. In conducting our business, we depend on other contractors and subcontractors. If these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or other parties, or if we are unable to maintain these relationships, our revenue, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We depend on contractors and subcontractors in conducting our business. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, or our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fail to deliver on a timely basis the agreed-upon supplies and/or perform the agreed-upon services, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. We also rely on relationships with other contractors when we act as their subcontractor or joint venture partner. Our future revenue and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or joint venture relationships with us, or if a government agency terminates or reduces these other contractors' programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our quarterly revenue, expenses and operating results may fluctuate significantly because of a number of factors, including: •the spending cycle of our public sector clients; •employee hiring and utilization rates; •the number and significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter; •the ability of clients to terminate engagements without penalties; •the ability of our project managers to accurately estimate the percentage of the project completed; •delays incurred as a result of weather conditions; •delays incurred in connection with an engagement; •the size and scope of engagements; •the timing of expenses incurred for corporate initiatives; •the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets; and •general economic and political conditions. 15 Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Systems and information technology interruption could adversely impact our ability to operate. We rely heavily on computer, information and communications technology and related systems in order to properly operate. From time to time, we experience occasional system interruptions and delays. If we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of and protect our systems, systems operation could be interrupted or delayed. In addition, our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, acts of war or terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic security breaches and similar events or disruptions. Any of these or other events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, could delay or prevent operations, and could adversely affect our operating results. Our charter documents contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include the following: •division of our Board of Directors into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; •removal of directors for cause only; •ability of our Board of Directors to authorize the issuance of preferred stock in series without stockholder approval; •two-thirds stockholder vote requirement to approve specified business combinations, which include a sale of substantially all of our assets; •vesting of exclusive authority in our Board of Directors to determine the size of the board (subject to limited exceptions) and to fill vacancies; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to our Board of Directors; and •prohibitions on our stockholders from acting by written consent and limitations on calling special meetings. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to our stockholders for the foreseeable future. Our credit facilities also restrict our ability to pay dividends. Accordingly, you may have to sell some or all of your common stock in order to generate cash flow from your investment. You may not receive a gain on your investment when you sell our common stock and may lose some or all of the amount of your investment. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a publicly-traded company. We completed the initial public offering of our common stock in May of 2007 and such shares are now traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). As a company with publicly-traded securities, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses not incurred as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules promulgated by the SEC 16 and the NYSE, requires us to adopt corporate governance practices applicable to U.S. public companies. These rules and regulations have increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs. If we do not timely satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established internal control framework and to report on our conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. It also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to test our internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls as of September 30, 2008. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could cause some investors to lose confidence in, or otherwise be unable to rely on, the accuracy of our reported financial information, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 