ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have recorded substantial net losses and declines in comparable store sales in recent periods and there is no assurance that we will not continue to incur substantial losses and declines in comparable store sales. We recorded net losses in fiscal years 2003, 2004 and 2005. Comparable store sales also have decreased in fiscal years 2003, 2004 and 2005. It is likely that we will continue to have net losses through at least fiscal year 2006. There is no assurance that we will not continue to incur substantial losses and declines in comparable store sales in the future. Our current levels of debt could impact our operations in the future. As of February 28, 2006, we had approximately $110.8 million of outstanding debt, constituting approximately 87.5% of our total debt and stockholders’ equity, including $38.5 million under our Second Amended and Restated Revolving Credit and Gold Consignment Agreement, dated as of July 29, 2003, among us, LaSalle Bank National Association (“LaSalle”), as administrative agent for the banks party thereto (“Banks”), the Banks, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as syndication agent, and JP Morgan Chase Bank, as documentation agent (the “Senior Credit Agreement”), $50 million under the Amended and Restated Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of February 1, 2006, by and among us, the lending institutions from time to time party thereto and PWJ Lending LLC (the “Amended and Restated Term Loan Agreement”) and $22.3 million in trade notes payable to vendors. Our debt levels fluctuate from time to time based on seasonal working capital needs. The aforementioned agreements include negative covenants and a minimum availability covenant which could restrict or limit our operations. In addition, the degree to which we are leveraged, as well as the restrictions contained in these agreements, could impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital or other corporate purposes. 10 We are more highly leveraged than many of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage, and our leverage could make us more vulnerable to changes in general economic conditions or factors affecting the jewelry business generally. In addition, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating rates and increases in interest rates would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Our costs of borrowings are higher than many of our competitors. We have undergone substantial changes, which could adversely affect our business. We have experienced a number of changes during the last fiscal year, including, but not limited to, the following: five different Chief Executive Officers; major changes in our bank loan facilities; infusion of $30 million from affiliates of Prentice and Holtzman in October 2005 (with an additional $20 million in February 2006); the recent closing of numerous retail store locations; and net losses totaling $84.4 million. As of March 15, 2006, we have been governed by a Board of Directors controlled by the Prentice/Holtzman group. In connection with these changes, we are testing and evaluating different means to increase sales and return to profitability through new store formats, different merchandise strategies, consumer credit tests and other operational and organizational changes. In addition, we have experienced and continue to experience substantial employee turnover, which may negatively impact the execution of our plan to improve operations. We cannot assure you that some or all of these changes will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, in the near term we plan to call a Special Meeting of Stockholders at which our stockholders will be asked to consider and vote upon the adoption of the Merger Agreement. Holtzman and Prentice and their respective affiliates own a sufficient number of shares of common stock to assure adoption of the Merger Agreement at the Special Meeting of Stockholders and they are required by the Merger Agreement to vote all of their shares of common stock in favor of adoption of the Merger Agreement. As a result, the Merger Agreement will be adopted even if no stockholders other than the Holtzman and Prentice and their respective affiliates vote to adopt it. As a result of the Merger, we will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Holdco and the public will not have any continuing equity interest in us, and will not share in our future earnings, dividends or growth, if any. Our independent registered public accounting firm has doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our accompanying audited financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and do not include any adjustments that might result if we cease to continue as a going concern. As a result of the recurring losses from operations and liquidity deficiency that we have experienced, our independent registered public accounting firm has concluded that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. They have discussed this uncertainty in their report on our audited financial statements. Uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern may create a concern among our current and future vendors and lenders, which may make it more difficult for us to meet our obligations. Our quarterly operating results will fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors, and variation in quarterly results could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our business is highly seasonal, with a significant portion of our sales and most of our gross profit generated during the fourth fiscal quarter ending January 31. Sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 accounted for 40% of annual sales for such fiscal year. The net loss for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was $12.5 million as compared to a net loss of $71.9 million recorded in the previous three fiscal quarters. In recent years, we have generated losses in each of the first three fiscal quarters. We also have historically experienced lower net sales and minimal net income in each of our first three fiscal quarters and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. We expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our net sales and net income due to a variety of factors. A shortfall in results for the fourth quarter of any fiscal year could have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including: increases or decreases in comparable store sales; timing of new store openings and net sales contributed by new stores; timing of certain holidays and special and/or promotional events initiated by us; changes in our merchandise; inventory availability and our ability to fund inventory purchases; general economic, industry and weather conditions and disastrous national events that affect consumer spending; and the pricing, merchandising, marketing, credit and other programs of our competitors. Our business is particularly susceptible to adverse economic conditions. Jewelry purchases are discretionary for consumers and may be particularly affected by adverse trends in the general economy. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions (and perceptions of such conditions) affecting disposable consumer income such as employment wages and salaries, business conditions, interest rates, availability and cost of credit and taxation, for the economy as a whole and in regional and local markets where we operate. In addition, we are dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination and the ability of malls or tenants and other attractions to generate 11 customer traffic for our stores. Increases in gasoline prices may affect the popularity of malls as shopping destinations and our customer traffic and may have a depressing effect on discretionary consumer spending generally. There can be no assurance that consumer spending will not be adversely affected by general economic conditions or a decrease in mall traffic, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations or financial condition. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon the ability and experience of our senior executives and other key employees. We have experienced and continue to experience substantial employee turnover. It is likely that there will be additional changes to our management team and other personnel as we focus on improving execution and reducing costs. Our inability to retain highly qualified management personnel or find suitable replacements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and may negatively impact the execution of our plan to improve operations. We do not maintain “key executive” life insurance on any of our executives. Moreover, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel generally. We have experienced high turnover among our support office and field personnel, especially store managers, and other personnel in recent periods, which has had an adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, or that there will not be disruptions to our operations as a result of personnel changes. We face significant competition. The retail jewelry business is fragmented and subject to increasingly intense competition. We compete with national and regional jewelry chains and local independently owned jewelry stores, especially those that operate in malls or off-mall superstores, as well as with department stores, discounters, direct mail suppliers and televised home shopping networks. A number of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Some of our competitors, such as Signet Group plc, which owns Kay Jewelers, Jareds and some regional chains, have substantially increased their number of stores and marketing expenditures in recent years, which we believe has resulted in increases in their market share and affected our results of operations. To the extent that our merchandising, marketing and/or promotional programs are not successful, we may lose customers to our competitors. We believe that the other primary competitive factors affecting our operations are store location and atmosphere, quality of sales personnel and service, breadth and depth of merchandise offered, pricing, credit and reputation. We also believe that we compete for consumers’ discretionary spending dollars with retailers that offer merchandise other than jewelry. In addition, we compete with jewelry and other retailers for desirable locations and qualified personnel. The foregoing competitive conditions may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We also face significant new competition from Internet jewelry retailers. Over the past several years a number of businesses began marketing fine jewelry via the Internet. Large scale consumer acceptance of Internet fine jewelry retailing is impacting the jewelry retailing business, resulting in additional competition for sales and lower price points and margins, and we believe that the increase of Internet retailing has adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. We are not currently transacting Internet sales of jewelry. A decrease in the availability of or an increase in the cost of consumer credit could have a negative impact on our business. The third party credit we offer to our customers is supplied to us primarily through a private label credit card arrangement with G.E.C.C. During fiscal 2005, private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 39% of our net sales while total non-private label credit sales, including major credit cards such as Visa, MasterCard, American Express and others, generally constituted approximately 49% of our net sales. The loss or any substantial modification of any of these arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. During periods of increasing consumer credit delinquencies in the retail industry generally, financial institutions may reexamine their lending practices and procedures. There can be no assurance that increased delinquencies being experienced by providers of consumer credit generally would not cause providers of third party credit offered by us to decrease the availability or increase the cost of such credit. We depend on our major suppliers and on the availability of merchandise, including consigned merchandise, and we will need their support to maintain our liquidity. We do not manufacture our own merchandise but instead work closely with a number of suppliers. During fiscal 2005, our largest supplier accounted for approximately 11% of our total purchases, and our largest five suppliers accounted for approximately 41% of such purchases. Our relationships with our primary suppliers are generally not pursuant to long-term agreements. We depend on our suppliers to ship merchandise on time and within our quality standards. Although we believe 12 that there are a number of suppliers of fine jewelry, the loss of one or more of our major suppliers, particularly at critical times during the year, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In recent periods, we have requested temporary extensions of payment terms from some of our key suppliers in order to manage liquidity needs and have also slowed our accounts payable schedules generally. Our liquidity depends on continued vendor support, and changes in the extensions of credit or other terms by vendors could have a material adverse effect on us. A substantial portion of the merchandise we sell is carried on a consignment basis prior to sale or is otherwise financed by vendors, thereby reducing our direct capital investment in inventory. The weighted average percentage of our total inventory that was carried on consignment for fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005 (based on the inventory levels at the end of each fiscal quarter) was 27.5%, 29.1% and 26.5%, respectively. The willingness of vendors to enter into such arrangements may vary substantially from time to time based on a number of factors, including the merchandise involved, the financial resources of vendors, interest rates, availability of financing, fluctuations in gem and gold prices, inflation, our financial condition and a number of economic or competitive conditions in the jewelry business or the economy generally or their perception of the desirability of doing business with us. Any change in these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our business is particularly susceptible to fluctuations in gem and gold prices. Our company and the jewelry industry in general are affected by fluctuations in the prices of diamonds and gold and, to a lesser extent, other precious and semi-precious metals and stones. During fiscal 2005, diamonds, gold and precious and semi-precious jewelry accounted for approximately 95% of our total merchandise sales. A significant change in prices or in the availability of diamonds, gold or other precious and semi-precious metals and stones could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In recent periods, we have experienced increases in diamond prices which we expect to continue to increase our overall costs, adversely affecting our results of operations. There appears to be increasing consumer acceptance of diamond substitutes and, as a result, there may be less consumer willingness to pay higher diamond prices. The supply and price of diamonds in the principal world markets are significantly influenced by a single entity, the Diamond Trading Company (formerly called the Central Selling Organization), a marketing arm of DeBeers Consolidated Mines Ltd. of South Africa. The Diamond Trading Company has traditionally controlled the marketing of the substantial majority of the world’s supply of diamonds and sells rough diamonds to worldwide diamond cutters from its London office in quantities and at prices determined in its discretion. The availability of diamonds to the Diamond Trading Company and our suppliers is to some extent dependent on the political situation in diamond producing countries, such as South Africa, Botswana, Zaire, Canada, republics of the former Soviet Union and Australia, and on continuation of the prevailing supply and marketing arrangements for raw diamonds. Until alternate sources could be developed, any sustained interruption in the supply of diamonds or any oversupply from the producing countries could adversely affect us and the retail jewelry industry as a whole. Higher priced jewelry items, such as the higher price point merchandise that we have emphasized in recent periods, tend to have a slower rate of turnover, thereby increasing the risks to us associated with price fluctuations and changes in fashion trends. We are faced with securities litigation, stockholder derivative litigation and other proceedings that could be material and we are subject to restrictions set forth in a non-prosecution agreement. We are defendants in securities litigation, stockholder derivative litigation and other proceedings. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” There is no assurance that these proceedings will not result in material expense to us. The handling of these actions has required significant attention from our management team and will continue to require significant attention if not settled or otherwise resolved in the near term. In addition, in connection with the Capital Factors litigation described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”, we entered into a non-prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York. The non-prosecution agreement contains certain conditions, including our continued compliance with applicable laws. If we were to fail to meet the conditions contained in the non-prosecution agreement we could face criminal prosecution. We may have to take additional accounting charges on our financial statements. We include as assets on our financial statements leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures, inventory and other items that are subject to impairment charges under generally accepted accounting principles if the net book values of such items on our financial statements exceed their fair market values. For fiscal year 2005, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $11.6 million relating to long-lived assets, primarily furniture, fixtures and leasehold improvements at 102 of our retail stores. These impairment charges had the effect of reducing our earnings for fiscal year 2005. There can be no assurance that we will not take additional impairment charges in the future as a result of additional store closings, other restructurings, other impairments or the valuation of other assets. 13 In addition, from time to time, we take price reductions on certain merchandise inventory, and may use alternative methods of disposition of certain inventory, which could result in future additional valuation allowances. The costs associated with our store-closing program may be material. During the fiscal year 2005, we recorded, in accordance with the asset held for use model set forth in Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 (“FAS 144”) “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets”, an impairment charge of $11.6 million of which $8.4 million was the result of a plan, as approved by our Board of Directors and announced on November 1, 2005, to close 77 of our retail stores. We have closed 60 of the 77 stores as of March 31, 2006. We currently plan to close 10 stores in April 2006 and plan to operate the remaining seven stores for a portion of fiscal year 2006 or beyond. The decision to close these stores resulted in an impairment of the respective stores’ long-lived assets, as the carrying amount of the respective stores’ long-lived fixed assets will not be recoverable as such assets will be disposed of before the end of their previously estimated useful lives. To assist with the closing of these stores, we entered into an agreement during early November 2005 with a third party. This third party is currently liquidating inventory in the closing stores through store closing sales. Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, we will receive cash proceeds from the liquidating stores of not less than 55% of the total cost of the merchandise inventory in these stores, plus the reimbursement of certain expenses to operate the store. During fiscal year 2005, we recorded an inventory valuation allowance of $19.9 million in connection with the liquidation of such inventory. Additional inventory valuation allowances may be required in future periods to the extent that actual net proceeds from the sales of such merchandise are less than management’s current estimate. In addition, we also entered into an agreement with another third party for the purpose of selling, terminating or otherwise mitigating lease obligations related to the store closings. As of January 31, 2006, we also recorded a charge of $3.7 million for estimated lease termination costs associated with the planned store closures, of which $1.1 million is classified as discontinued operations. This charge represents our management’s current estimate of the lease termination costs based on negotiations with the respective landlords. Additional charges for lease termination costs may be required in future periods to the extent that actual costs are greater than our management’s current estimate, which may be material to the financial statements. We have not reached written agreements regarding lease terminations with any landlords. Leases for all closed stores are or will be in default. We continue to work with the landlords to reach consensual agreements on the terms of the lease terminations. There is no assurance that such agreements will be reached, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. We are subject to substantial regulation. Our operations are affected by numerous federal and state laws that impose disclosure and other requirements upon the origination, servicing, enforcement and advertising of credit accounts, and limitations on the maximum amount of finance charges that may be charged by a credit provider. Although credit to our customers historically has been provided by third parties with limited recourse to us based upon a customer’s failure to pay, any restrictive change in the regulation of credit, including the imposition of, or changes in, interest rate ceilings, could adversely affect the cost or availability of credit to our customers and, consequently, our results of operations or financial condition. Our operations are also affected by federal and state laws relating to marketing practices in the retail jewelry industry. In past marketing to our customers, we compared most of our prices to “reference prices.” Our literature indicates to customers that our reference price for an item is either the manufacturer’s suggested retail price or our determination of the non-discounted price at which comparable merchandise of like grade or quality is advertised or offered for sale by competitive retailers and is not our current selling price or the price at which we formerly sold such item. We are, from time to time, subject to regulatory investigation relating to our use of “reference prices” in marketing to our customers. Although we believe that pricing comparisons are common in the jewelry business, there can be no assurance that this practice would be upheld. We continue to make certain pricing claims based upon information available to us and therefore have certain regulatory risk. We are in the process of reticketing merchandise to exclude reference prices, which may negatively impact sales. We are also regulated by federal and state laws related to our provision of jewelry service plans. As a result of the purchase of our common stock under the Offer, trading in our common stock may be more difficult. Market for the Shares. The purchase of our common stock pursuant to the Offer has reduced the number of holders of our common stock and the number of shares of our common stock that might otherwise trade publicly, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market value of the remaining common stock held by stockholders other than Purchaser. We cannot 14 predict whether the reduction in the number of shares of our common stock that might otherwise trade publicly will have an adverse or beneficial effect on the market price for, or marketability of, our common stock or whether such reduction will cause future market prices to be greater or less than the Offer price of $1.60 per share of common stock. New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Delisting; Pink Sheets. Our common stock was listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “JWL.” Shares of our common stock were suspended from trading on the NYSE prior to the opening of trading on Friday, October 28, 2005. The decision was reached in view of the fact that we were not in compliance with the NYSE continued listing standards because our average market capitalization had been less than $25 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. Our common stock is now quoted in the Pink Sheets under the symbol “JWLR.PK.” As such, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. The purchase of our common stock by Purchaser pursuant to the Offer has reduced the number of shares of our common stock that might otherwise trade publicly and has reduced the number of holders of our common stock, which could adversely affect the liquidity and market value of our remaining common stock held by the public. The extent of the public market for our common stock and the availability of quotations reported on the Pink Sheets electronic quotation system depends upon the number of stockholders holding our common stock, the aggregate market value of our common stock remaining at such time, the interest of maintaining a market in our common stock on the part of any securities firms, and other factors. Margin Regulations. The shares of our common stock are not currently “margin securities” under the Regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, which has the effect, among other things, of allowing brokers to extend credit on the collateral of the common stock. Exchange Act Registration. Shares of our common stock are currently registered under the Exchange Act. Such registration may be terminated by us upon application to the SEC if our common stock is neither listed on a national securities exchange nor held by 300 or more holders of record. Termination of registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act would substantially reduce the information required to be furnished by us to our stockholders and to the SEC and would make certain provisions of the Exchange Act no longer applicable to us, such as the short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the requirement of furnishing a proxy statement pursuant to Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act in connection with stockholders’ meetings and the related requirement of furnishing an annual report to stockholders and the requirements of Rule 13e-3 under the Exchange Act with respect to “going private” transactions. Furthermore, the ability of our “affiliates” and persons holding our “restricted securities” to dispose of such securities pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act may be impaired or eliminated. We understand that Prentice and Holtzman currently intend to seek to cause us to terminate the registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act upon completion of the Merger. In addition, we understand that Prentice and Holtzman may cause us to terminate the registration of our common stock under the Exchange Act if, before completion of the Merger, the shares of our common stock are held by less than 300 holders of record. It is also possible that trading in our common stock could be subject to requirements under the Exchange Act that require additional disclosures by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” (generally, any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share and that is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, subject to certain exceptions). The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by these requirements could discourage broker-dealers from facilitating trades in our common stock, which could significantly limit the market liquidity of the stock and the ability of investors to trade our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 