Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in the Company, investors should consider, among other factors, the following: Economic Conditions and Related Uncertainties. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by local, domestic, and international economic and political conditions, and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, tight money supply, real estate values, international conflicts and other factors beyond the Company’s control may adversely affect the potential profitability of the Company. Any future rises in interest rates, while increasing the income yield on the Company’s earnings assets, may adversely affect loan demand and the cost of funds and, consequently, the profitability of the Company. Any future decreases in interest rates may adversely affect the Company’s profitability because such decreases may reduce the amounts that the Company may earn on its assets. Economic downturns could result in the delinquency of outstanding loans. Management does not expect any one particular factor to materially affect the Company’s results of operations. However, downtrends in several areas, including real estate, construction and consumer spending, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s ability to remain profitable. Effect of Interest Rates on the Banks and the Company. The operations of financial institutions such as the Company are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution's net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of interest that in turn are affected by prevailing economic conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies. Like all financial institutions, the Company's balance sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions. See "Item 7: Management's Discussion of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk.” Federal and State Government Regulations. The operations of the Company and the Banks are heavily regulated and will be affected by present and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. In particular, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of banks in the past, and are expected to continue to do so in the future. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement its objectives are changes in the discount rate charged on bank borrowings and changes in the reserve requirements on bank deposits. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to the monetary polices of the Federal Reserve Board or to existing federal and state legislation or the effect that such changes may have on the future business and earnings prospects of the Company. During the past several years, significant legislative attention has been focused on the regulation and deregulation of the financial services industry. Non-bank financial institutions, such as securities brokerage firms, insurance companies and money market funds, have been permitted to engage in activities that compete directly with traditional bank business. Competition. The Company faces strong competition from other banks, savings institutions and other financial institutions that have branch offices or otherwise operate in the Company’s market area, as well as many other companies now offering a range of financial services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources and larger branch systems than the Company. In addition, many of the Banks’ competitors have higher legal lending limits than do the Banks. Particularly intense competition exists for sources of funds including savings and retail time deposits and for loans, deposits and other services that the Banks offer. See “Item 1: Business - Competition.” Allowance for Loan Losses. The Company has established an allowance for loan losses which management believes to be adequate to offset probable losses on the Company’s existing loans. However, there is no precise method of estimating loan losses. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses. An Economic Slowdown in Northeastern Indiana and Southwestern Michigan Could Hurt Our Business. We focus our business in northeastern Indiana and southwestern Michigan in DeKalb, Whitley, Noble, LaGrange, and the eastern portion of Elkhart counties, Indiana and St. Joseph, Cass, and the southwest portion of Kalamazoo counties, Michigan. An economic slowdown in these areas could have the following consequences, any of which could hurt our business: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for the products and services of Peoples Federal or First Savings may decline; and • Collateral for loans made by the Banks, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans of the Banks. Dividends. While the Board of Directors expects to continue its policy of regular quarterly dividend payments, this dividend policy will be reviewed periodically in light of future earnings, regulatory restrictions and other considerations. No assurance can be given, therefore, that cash dividends on common stock will be paid in the future. See page 2 of the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended September 30, 2006 and Note 14 on page 31 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended September 30, 2006. Market for Common Stock. Although the Company’s common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market System, there has been only limited trading in the Common Stock. There can be no assurance that a regular and active market for the Common Stock will develop in the foreseeable future. See "Item 5: Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters." Investors in the shares of common stock must, therefore, be prepared to assume the risk of their investment for an indefinite period of time. "Anti-Takeover" and "Anti-Greenmail" Provisions and Management Implications. The Articles of Incorporation of the Company presently contain certain provisions which may be deemed to be "anti-takeover" and "anti-greenmail" in nature in that such provisions may deter, discourage or make more difficult the assumption of control of the Company by another corporation or person through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or similar transaction or series of transactions. The overall effects of the "anti-takeover" and "anti-greenmail" provisions may be to discourage, make more costly or more difficult, or prevent a future takeover offer, prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their securities in a takeover offer, and enhance the possibility that a future bidder for control of the Company will be required to act through arms-length negotiation with the Company’s Board of Directors. Copies of the Articles of Incorporation of the Company are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Indiana Secretary of State. Stock Not an Insured Deposit. Investments in the shares of the Company’s common stock are not deposits insured against loss by the FDIC or any other entity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 