Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in the Company, investors should consider, among other factors, the following factors that could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. These risks and uncertainties are not necessarily the only ones the Company may face. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The earnings and financial condition of the Company are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of the spread between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors including: · The rate of inflation; · Economic conditions; · Federal monetary policies; · Stability of domestic and foreign markets. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the level of prepayments on loans as well as the payments received on mortgage backed securities, requiring the reinvestment at lower rates than the loans or securities were paying. The Bank originates a significant amount of residential mortgage loans for sale and for our portfolio. The origination of residential mortgage loans is highly dependent on the local real estate market and the level of interest rates. Increasing interest rates tend to reduce the origination of loans for sale and consequently fee income, which we report gain on sale of loans. Conversely, decreasing interest rates have the effect of causing clients to refinance mortgage loans faster than anticipated. This causes the value of mortgage servicing rights on the loans sold to be lower than originally anticipated. If this happens, the Company may be required to write down the value of our mortgage servicing rights faster than anticipated, which will increase expense and lower earnings. The Company’s exposure to credit risk due to the nature of the Company’s loan business makes it vulnerable to an adverse effect on its financial condition. The Company’s earnings and financial condition may be adversely affected if the Company fails to adequately manage credit risk. The Company’s primary business is the origination and underwriting of loans. This business requires the Company to take “credit risk” which is the risk of losing principal and interest income because borrowers fail to repay their loans. The ability of borrowers to repay their loans and the value of collateral securing such loans may be affected by a number of factors including: · A slowdown in the local economy where the Company’s markets are located or the national economy; · A downturn in the business sectors in which the Company’s loan customers operate; · A rapid increase in interest rates. An inability to access the Company’s sources of liquidity when needed could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operation. Liquidity is the ability to meet cash flow needs on a timely basis at a reasonable cost. The liquidity of the Company is used to make loans and to repay deposit liabilities as they become due or are demanded by customers. Liquidity policies and limits are established by the Board of Directors with limits monitored by the Asset/Liability committee. -26- The Company’s sources of liquidity include both local deposits and wholesale funding sources. Wholesale funding sources include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, Federal Funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, and brokered or other out-of-market certificate of deposit purchases. Also the Company maintains a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. Other sources of liquidity that may be available if necessary include the sale or securitization of loans, the issuance of additional collateralized borrowings beyond those currently utilized with the Federal Home Loan Bank, the issuance of debt securities and the issuance of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. The inability of the Company to access the above listed sources of liquidity when needed could cause the Bank to be unable to meet customer needs, which could adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, or regulatory capital levels. The geographic concentration of our loan portfolio and lending activities makes us vulnerable to a downturn in the local economy. The Company operates its banking units within the geographic area comprised of northeast Indiana and southern Michigan. Weaknesses in this geographic market area could be caused by such factors as an increase in the unemployment rate, a decrease in real estate values, or significant increases in interest rates. Any such weakness could have a negative impact on our earnings and financial condition because: · Demand for our products and services may go down; · Borrowers may be unable to make payments on their loans; · The value of collateral securing loans may decline; · The overall quality of the loan portfolio may decline; · Local market-area deposits may decline, impacting the Company’s cost of funding and its liquidity. Strong competition may limit growth and profitability. Competition in the Company’s market area may reduce the Company’s ability to originate loans and attract and retain deposits. The Company faces competition both in originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition is intense in the financial services industry. The Company competes in its market area by offering superior service and competitive rates and products. The type of institutions the Company competes with include large regional commercial banks, smaller community banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance agencies and mutual funds. As a result of their size and ability to achieve economies of scale, certain of the Company’s competitors can offer a broader range of products and services than the Company can offer. To stay competitive in its market area, the Company may need to adjust the interest rates on its products to match rates of its competition, which will have a negative impact on net interest margin. The Company’s continued profitability depends on its ability to continue to effectively compete in its market areas. Our earnings could be adversely impacted by incidences of fraud and compliance failures that are not always within our direct control. The Company processes transactions on a daily basis and is exposed to numerous types of risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems. These risks include but are not limited to the risk of fraud by persons inside or outside the Company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. The risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of operational deficiencies or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. The Company has established and maintains a system of internal controls that provide management with information on a timely basis and allows for the monitoring of compliance with operational standards. While not foolproof, these systems have been designed to manage operational risks at an appropriate, cost effective level. Procedures exist that are designed to ensure that policies relating to conduct, ethics, and business practices are followed. Periodically, losses from operational risks may occur, including the effects of operational errors. Such losses are included in non-interest expense as incurred. While management continually monitors the system of internal control, as well as data processing systems and corporate-wide processes and procedures, there can be no assurance that future losses will not occur. -27- The Company’s operations are also dependent on the existing infrastructure, including equipment and facilities. Extended disruption of vital infrastructure as a result of fire, power loss, natural disaster, telecommunications failures, computer hacking or viruses, terrorist activity or the domestic response to such activity, or other events outside of the control of management could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole and on the Company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition in particular. The Company has a business recovery plan but there are no assurances that such plan will work as intended or that it will prevent significant interruptions to operations. Changes in laws, government regulation, and monetary policy may have a material effect on our results of operations. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by changes in the regulatory environment or by changes in government policies as a whole. The earnings of financial institutions such as the Company and the Bank are affected by the policies of the regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the money supply, and the Office of Thrift Supervision, which regulates unitary thrift holding companies such as the Company and savings banks such as Peoples Federal. Among the methods employed by the Federal Reserve Board are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, and changes in the reserve requirement against member bank deposits. These tools are utilized by the Federal Reserve in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits and they have a significant impact on interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The influence of the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board is expected to have a continuing effect on the operating results of commercial and savings banks. Policies, administration guidelines, and regulatory practices of the Office of Thrift Supervision and other banking regulators have a significant impact on the operations of the Bank and the Company. It is possible that certain of those regulations will negatively impact the Company’s operating results or financial condition. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The Company has established an allowance for loan losses which management believes to be adequate to offset probable losses on the Company’s existing loans. However, there is no precise method of estimating loan losses. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses. The Company’s ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of Peoples Federal to make capital distributions to the Company. While the Board of Directors expects to continue its policy of regular quarterly dividend payments, this dividend policy will be reviewed periodically in light of future earnings, regulatory restrictions and other considerations. No assurance can be given, therefore, that cash dividends on common stock will be paid in the future. There is a limited market for the Company’s common stock. Although the Company’s common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market System, there has been only limited trading in the common stock. There can be no assurance that a regular and active market for the common stock will develop in the foreseeable future. See Item 5. Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Investors in the shares of common stock must, therefore, be prepared to assume the risk of their investment for an indefinite period of time. -28- “Anti-Takeover” and “Anti-Greenmail” provisions may restrict the ability for the Company to be acquired, which may adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock. The Articles of Incorporation of the Company presently contain certain provisions which may be deemed to be “anti-takeover” and “anti-greenmail” in nature in that such provisions may deter, discourage or make more difficult the assumption of control of the Company by another corporation or person through a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or similar transaction or series of transactions. The overall effects of the “anti-takeover” and “anti-greenmail” provisions may be to discourage, make more costly or more difficult, or prevent a future takeover offer, prevent shareholders from receiving a premium for their securities in a takeover offer, and enhance the possibility that a future bidder for control of the Company will be required to act through arms-length negotiation with the Company’s Board of Directors. Copies of the Articles of Incorporation of the Company are on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Indiana Secretary of State. The Company’s common stock is not an insured deposit. Investments in the shares of the Company’s common stock are not deposits insured against loss by the FDIC or any other entity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 