Item 1A. Risk Factors Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. It is not possible to foresee or identify all such factors. Investors should not consider this list an exhaustive statement of all risks and uncertainties. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of both the risks described below and factors described elsewhere in this report. You should read the section below entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” for further discussion of these matters. We are currently in payment default under our Credit Facility and in covenant default under certain of the covenants in our Credit Facility. As a result of such defaults under the Credit Facility, we are also in default under our drilling rig financing with CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. due to cross default provisions therein. It is unlikely that we will be able to return to compliance with the Credit Facility and the drilling rig financing, and if we are unable to return to compliance, our Lenders may exercise remedies that would have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders. Under our Credit Facility, our borrowing base was redetermined effective April 30, 2009, at which time the borrowing base was reduced to $60 million from $95 million. As of March 31, 2010, we have outstanding indebtedness of $83 million under the Credit Facility, and a borrowing base payment deficiency of $23 million. We do not currently have sufficient cash available to repay the borrowing base deficiency. As a result of the payment default for the borrowing base deficiency and financial covenant defaults under the Credit Facility, we are also in default under our drilling rig financing with CIT Group/Equipment Financing, Inc. (“CIT”) due to cross default provisions therein. We currently owe approximately $6.2 million to CIT under the drilling rig financing, and we have additional substantial financial obligations under related drilling rig contracts. Under each of the Credit Facility and the rig note, remedies available to the creditors include acceleration of all principal and interest payments. Although we have obtained short-term forbearance agreements for each of these agreements in 15 Table of Contents default, we may not be able to comply with the conditions and covenants set forth in those forbearance agreements. There can be no assurance that these forbearance agreements provide us the time to resolve the deficiencies and forestall further default. Our proposed merger with Alta Mesa may not be completed due to lack of shareholder approval or other circumstances. We may not be able to sell assets on terms that we consider advantageous to us and our shareholders, and capital on acceptable terms may not be available from other sources. We may be unable to find an acceptable alternate candidate for a corporate merger or sale. If we are unable to comply with the terms of the forbearance agreements, we will be in default under the Credit Facility and the CIT financing, and we will be subject to the exercise of remedies by such parties on account of such defaults. The exercise of such remedies may force us to liquidate or to otherwise seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws. Such relief would materially and adversely affect the Company and its shareholders. As a result of our current lack of financial liquidity, we have received a “going concern” modification to our independent registered public accounting firm’s opinion on our consolidated financial statements. Our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our lack of sufficient liquidity makes it more difficult for us to secure additional financing or enter into strategic relationships on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and may materially and adversely affect the terms of any financing that we may obtain and our public stock price generally. If the merger with Alta Mesa is not completed, we may be forced to liquidate or to otherwise seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws. If the merger is not consummated for any reason, our shareholders will not receive the merger consideration and our current management under the direction of our board of directors will continue to manage us as a stand-alone, independent business and the value of shares of our common stock will continue to be subject to the risks and uncertainties identified herein and any updates to those risks and uncertainties set forth in our subsequent filings. In addition, if the merger is not completed, the forbearance agreements with our creditors and certain others would terminate, allowing them to take action to enforce their rights with respect to the outstanding obligations. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under our Credit Facility, if our Lenders declare an event of default, they would be entitled to foreclose on and take possession of our assets, including our cash balances. In such an event, we may be forced to liquidate or to otherwise seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws, and we can give you no assurance that in a bankruptcy proceeding you would receive any value for your shares. Our efforts to cure the deficiency under the Credit Facility may not be successful and we may be required to seek bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”). Even if our efforts are successful, we may still be required to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code to consummate a corporate transaction such as a merger or sale of the Company. There can be no assurance that we will be able to further extend the terms of the forbearance agreements with the Lenders under the Credit Facility and CIT, nor the terms of other related agreements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the terms of those agreements. If we are unable to comply, and no further extensions are granted, the forbearance periods end. Our creditors would then have various remedies available to them under the terms of our debt agreements, including acceleration of all principal and interest. The exercise of such remedies could potentially result in us seeking protection under the Bankruptcy Code. Even under a proposed corporate transaction such as a merger or sale of the Company, we may still be required to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code to consummate such a transaction. 16 Table of Contents Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, pre-petition and post-petition liabilities (including certain fees and interest) must be satisfied in full before stockholders are entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a plan of reorganization. Amounts that would need to be satisfied in full before any recovery by our stockholders would include, among other things, $83 million currently owed in principal plus any accrued interest which is owed under our Credit Facility and approximately $6.2 million owed under the rig note. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we have a working capital deficit of $6.6 million in addition to amounts owed under the Credit Facility and the rig note, which generally represents amounts owed to vendors and others which exceed cash and amounts collectible from customers and others. The total amount of this liquidation preference is approximately $95.8 million and any recovery for our common stockholders would only be available if the value available in any Bankruptcy Code proceeding exceeded the amount required to repay all of our outstanding indebtedness and other obligations (including trade payables and other unsecured claims). The ultimate recovery to creditors and/or stockholders, if any, would not be determined until the confirmation of any plan of reorganization. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, would be ascribed in any potential Chapter 11 filing to each of these constituencies or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, they would receive. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a plan of reorganization can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by equity holders and notwithstanding the fact that equity holders do not receive or retain any property under the plan of reorganization. If Meridian is forced to liquidate or to otherwise seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws, there is no assurance that in a bankruptcy proceeding the Meridian shareholders would receive any value for their shares. Our common stock could be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. On December 4, 2008, we received notification from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) that the Company had fallen below certain continued listing criteria that require a minimum average closing price of $1.00 per share over 30 consecutive trading days. The NYSE temporarily suspended the minimum average closing price requirement during part of the first half of 2009. We received notification from the NYSE that our common stock would potentially be delisted if we were not in compliance with that requirement by November 9, 2009. To date we have not been delisted from the NYSE. In addition, we are currently monitoring the Company’s compliance with another listing criterion. This criterion requires that average market capital over 30 consecutive trading days must be at least $15 million. Based on shares outstanding at March 31, 2010, the Company’s average market capital decreases below this level when the stock price drops below approximately $0.16 per share. Some closing prices in the first half of 2009 have been below this price. If the Company becomes non-compliant with this criterion, our common stock would be subject to the NYSE’s delisting procedures. During 2008 and part of 2009, the Company was also non-compliant with an NYSE listing criterion which requires that a majority of our directors be independent. However, after the voluntary resignations of three non-independent directors effective October 13, 2009, the Company is now in compliance with this listing criterion, and has been removed from the NYSE’s list of issuers non-compliant with corporate governance listing standards on www.nyse.com. The resignations were not the result of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the Company’s operations, policies or practices. Rather, the resigning directors agreed to resign to facilitate compliance with NYSE rules for listed companies. The Company currently has seven directors, of which four are independent. In our communication with the NYSE they noted that we have not held a shareholders’ meeting in more than 12 months, since August 6, 2008, and we are not in compliance with NYSE rules in that respect. Finally, the NYSE also noted that it can take accelerated listing action in the event that our common stock trades at levels viewed to be “abnormally low” over a sustained period of time, and that it is continuing to evaluate the trading levels of our stock, including the price per share. 17 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the stock of the Company will continue to be listed on the NYSE; there can be no assurance that we will obtain listing on an alternate stock exchange or automated quotation service in the event we are delisted from the NYSE. A delisting of our common stock could materially and adversely affect, among other things, the liquidity and market price of our common stock; the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock; and our access to capital markets to raise capital in the future. Our Credit Facility has substantial restrictions and financial covenants. We are currently in default under, and it is unlikely that we will be able to return to compliance with, certain of the covenants in our Credit Facility, including our covenant to maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.0 to 1.0, and our covenant to deliver to our Lenders audited financial statements for each fiscal year that do not have a “going concern” or like qualification or exception. Our current Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restraints that could impair our ability to obtain future financing, to make capital expenditures, to pay dividends, to engage in mergers or acquisitions, to withstand downturns in our business or in the general economy or to otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We are also required to comply with certain financial covenants and ratios. We are currently in default under certain of those covenants. Our ability to return to compliance and maintain compliance in the future is unlikely. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions will be affected by the levels of cash flow from our operations and events or circumstances beyond our control, including events and circumstances that may stem from the condition of financial markets and commodity price levels. Furthermore, we have pledged substantially all of our oil and natural gas properties and the stock of all of our principal operating subsidiaries as collateral for the indebtedness under our Credit Facility. This pledge of collateral to our Credit Facility Lenders would impair our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. Our failure to comply with any of the restrictions and covenants under our Credit Facility results in an event of default under the facility, which results in an event of default on our rig note as well. The total balance outstanding under the rig note at December 31, 2009 is $6.2 million. The remedies available to the lender under the rig note include acceleration of all principal and interest payments. We may not be able to remit such an accelerated payment or to access sufficient funds from alternative sources to remit any such payment. Even if we could obtain additional financing, the terms of that financing may not be favorable or acceptable to us. Although these defaults have been mitigated with short term forbearance agreements, the terms of forbearance under the Credit Facility include the Lenders’ right to terminate forbearance without cause at any time after February 28, 2010. We cannot predict what action they may take. Furthermore, forbearance under the CIT agreement is tied to forbearance under the Credit Facility, such that if forbearance under the Credit Facility is early terminated, then forbearance under the CIT agreement will also terminate. Our Credit Facility has periodic borrowing base redeterminations and we will have difficulty maintaining our total borrowing base at the current level of $60 million at future redeterminations, or maintaining or obtaining additional credit at similar terms, which could adversely affect our operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding indebtedness of $87.5 million ($ 83 million as of March 31, 2010) under our Credit Facility, which exceeded the current limit to our borrowings under that facility. The Credit Facility limits the amounts we can borrow to the borrowing base amount, determined by the Lenders in their sole discretion. We have exceeded that amount and are currently in a deficit as to the borrowing base. The borrowing base will be redetermined quarterly, and may be redetermined at our request more frequently and by the Lenders in their sole discretion based on reserve reports prepared by reserve engineers, together with, among other things, the oil and natural gas prices existing at the time. The Lenders can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the Credit Facility. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all the Lenders. Outstanding borrowings in excess of the borrowing base must be repaid within 100 days, either in prescribed installments beginning 40 days after the incurrence of a 18 Table of Contents borrowing base deficit, or all at once. This term has been mitigated with a short-term forbearance agreement, which is subject to termination by the Lenders without cause after February 28, 2010. Further redeterminations of the borrowing base have been postponed until termination of the forbearance period. We may not have the financial resources in the future to make any mandatory principal repayments required under the Credit Facility. Because of the recent deterioration of the credit and capital markets, we may be unable to obtain financing from sources other than our Credit Facility on acceptable terms or at all. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disruptive and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been adversely affected by significant write-offs in the financial services sector relating to subprime mortgages, and the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated market, among other things. These events have led to poor general economic conditions. In particular, the cost of capital in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially, while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. Also, concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically have led to increases in the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and reduced funding and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. In order to explore for and develop our oil and natural gas properties, we would need substantial capital. Historically, we have relied heavily on our credit facilities for our capital needs. Due to our default, the Credit Facility is not currently a source of funds for the Company. If we were to raise capital from a source other than our Credit Facility, it is unlikely that additional capital will be available to the extent required and on acceptable terms. We are currently unable to fully execute our growth strategy, or take advantage of business opportunities, and we may be unable to respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be forced to sell a significant portion of our assets in order to meet near-term contractual requirements. We may not be able to sell assets on terms that we consider advantageous to the Company and our stockholders. We have significant near-term contractual obligations, which we may not be able to meet; our working capital is currently a net deficit. We have significant near-term contractual obligations, including, but not limited to, two drilling contracts. Our net working capital position at December 31, 2009, is a deficit of $100.2 million, which includes $91.7 million of amounts due under the Credit Facility and the rig note which have been reclassified as current as a result of the defaults noted elsewhere herein. Our cash flow and working capital have been significantly impacted by the precipitous decrease in the prices we received for oil and natural gas in the second half of 2008, and continuing through 2009. If we are not able to increase cash flow, our ability to meet these obligations may be impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If oil or natural gas prices decrease or exploration and development efforts are unsuccessful, we may be required to take further write-downs. In 2009 and 2008, we recorded significant non-cash impairments, or ceiling test write-downs, to our oil and natural gas properties of $63.5 million and $216.8 million, respectively. There is a risk that we will be required to take additional write-downs in the future, which would reduce our earnings and shareholders’ equity. A write-down could occur when oil and natural gas prices are low or if we have substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves, increases in our estimates of development costs or deterioration in our exploration and development results. Downward adjustments to proved reserves may result from decreasing prices of oil and natural gas, as expected development reserves become uneconomic under revised conditions. 19 Table of Contents The Company follows the full cost method of accounting for its investments in oil and natural gas properties. All costs incurred with the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties, including unproductive wells, are capitalized. Under the rules of the SEC for the full cost method of accounting, the net carrying value of oil and natural gas properties, less related deferred taxes, is limited to the sum of the present value (10% discount rate) of the estimated future after-tax net cash flows from proved reserves, as adjusted for the Company’s cash flow hedge positions, and on current costs, plus the lower of cost or estimated fair value of unproved properties, adjusted for related income tax effects. Under new rules issued by the SEC, the estimated future net cash flows as of December 31, 2009, were determined using average prices for the most recent twelve months. The average is calculated using the first day of the month price for each of the twelve months that make up the reporting period. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, previous rules required that estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves be based on period end prices. We review our oil and natural gas properties for impairment quarterly or whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Once incurred, a writedown of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date even if natural gas or oil prices increase. Given the complexities associated with oil and natural gas reserve estimates and the history of price volatility in the oil and natural gas markets, events may arise that would require us to record additional impairments of the recorded carrying values associated with our oil and natural gas properties. In addition, our undeveloped leases are subject to expiration and forfeiture if not drilled. Our drilling plans for these areas are subject to the availability of funds for exploration, which is in turn affected by the risk factors described above. The leases may also be sold or assigned, but the oil and natural gas industry is currently undergoing significant market disruptions, which may make it difficult for us to extract value from these assets before expiration. Such circumstances increase the risk of the transfer of unevaluated oil and natural gas properties to the full cost pool where they would be subject to amortization or impairment. In addition to the impairment of our oil and natural gas properties, we recorded a $6.7 million non-cash impairment of our drilling rig in 2008. The rig was purchased in 2007, with the intention of securing access to an appropriate rig and crew for our exploration efforts. Although we utilized the rig for our own drilling during 2008, it has been utilized by others since then based on short-term arrangements. Due to the continued volatility in the prices of oil and natural gas, and its negative effect on the drilling industry, we will continue to review this asset for additional impairment. We cannot predict whether additional impairment will be necessary. The oil and natural gas markets are volatile and expose us to financial risks. Our profitability, cash flow and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties are highly dependent on the market prices of oil and natural gas. Historically, the oil and natural gas markets have proven cyclical and volatile as a result of factors that are beyond our control. These factors include changes in tax laws, the level of consumer product demand, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the price and level of imports and exports of oil and natural gas, worldwide economic, political and regulatory conditions, and action taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Any significant decline in oil and natural gas prices or any other unfavorable market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on the carrying value of our proved reserves. Consequently, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our obligations and to make planned capital expenditures. Price declines may also affect the measure of discounted future net cash flows of our reserves, a result that could adversely impact the borrowing base under our Credit Facility and may increase the likelihood that we will incur additional impairment charges on our oil and natural gas properties for financial accounting purposes. 20 Table of Contents Our hedging transactions may not adequately prevent losses. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices with certainty. To manage our exposure to the risks inherent in such a volatile market, from time to time, we have entered into commodities futures, swap or option contracts to hedge a portion of our oil and natural gas production against market price changes. Hedging transactions are intended to limit the negative effect of future price declines, but may also prevent us from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels reflected in the hedges. Our Credit Facility requires that only Lenders under that agreement may act as counterparties. Due to our default, the Lenders have not allowed us to execute any new hedging agreements, and all our previous hedging contracts have now expired. Our reserve estimates may prove to be inaccurate and future net cash flows are uncertain. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating the recovery from underground accumulations of oil and natural gas we cannot measure in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserve estimates may be imprecise and may be expected to change as additional information becomes available. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The quantities of oil and natural gas that we ultimately recover, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures and future oil and natural gas sales prices may differ from those assumed in these estimates. Significant downward revisions to our existing reserve estimates could cause the actual results to differ from those reflected in our assumptions and estimates. We depend on key personnel to execute our business plans. The loss of any key executives or any other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We depend on the efforts and skills of our key executives. Moreover, our future profitability will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our interim Chief Executive Officer, Paul D. Ching, is only contractually committed to serve us on a month-to-month basis. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract a qualified individual to succeed him. We compete against significant players in the oil and natural gas industry, and our failure in the long-term to complete future property acquisitions successfully and generate commercial exploration and development drilling opportunities could reduce our earnings and cause revenues to decline. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover additional reserves depends on our ability to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. We compete with major oil companies, other independent oil and natural gas companies, and individual producers and operators. Many of these competitors have access to greater financial and personnel resources than those to which we have access. Moreover, the oil and natural gas industry competes with other industries in supplying the energy and fuel needs of industrial, commercial and other consumers. Increased competition causing oversupply or depressed prices could materially adversely affect our revenues. The oil and natural gas markets are heavily regulated. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern safety, exploration, development, taxation and environmental matters that are related to the oil and natural gas industry. To conserve oil and natural gas supplies, regulatory agencies may impose price controls and may limit our production. Certain laws and regulations require drilling permits, govern the spacing of wells and the prevention of waste, and limit the total number of wells drilled or the total allowable production from successful wells. Other laws and regulations 21 Table of Contents govern the handling, storage, transportation and disposal of oil and natural gas and any byproducts produced in oil and natural gas operations. These laws and regulations could materially adversely impact our operations and our revenues. Laws and regulations that affect us may change from time to time in response to economic or political conditions. Thus, we must also consider the impact of future laws and regulations that may be passed in the jurisdictions where we operate. We anticipate that future laws and regulations related to the oil and natural gas industry will become increasingly stringent and cause us to incur substantial compliance costs. The nature of our operations exposes us to environmental liabilities. Our operations create the risk of environmental liabilities. We may incur liability to governments or to third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water. We could potentially discharge oil or natural gas into the environment in any of the following ways: • from a well or drilling equipment at a drill site, • from a leak in storage tanks, pipelines or other gathering and transportation facilities, • from damage to oil or natural gas wells resulting from accidents during normal operations or natural disasters, or • from blowouts, cratering or explosions. Environmental discharges may move through the soil to water supplies or adjoining properties, giving rise to additional liabilities. Some laws and regulations could impose liability for failure to obtain the proper permits for, to control the use of, or to notify the proper authorities of a hazardous discharge. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations and could possibly cause our operations to be suspended or terminated on such property. We may also be liable for any environmental hazards created either by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease or by acquired companies prior to the date we acquire them. Such liability would affect the costs of our acquisition of those properties. In connection with any of these environmental violations, we may also be charged with remedial costs. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Although we do not believe that our environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and natural gas industry, we cannot assure you that environmental laws will not result in decreased production, substantially increased costs of operations or other adverse effects to our combined operations and financial condition. Our operations entail inherent casualty risks for which we may not have adequate insurance. Our hydrocarbon reserves and our revenues will decline if we are not successful in our drilling, acquisition or exploration activities. Casualty risks and other operating risks could cause reserves and revenues to decline. Our onshore and offshore operations are subject to inherent casualty risks such as hurricanes, fires, blowouts, cratering and explosions. Other risks include pollution, the uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, and the hazards of marine and helicopter operations such as capsizing, collision and adverse weather and sea conditions. These risks may result in injury or loss of life, suspension of operations, environmental damage or property and equipment damage, all of which would cause us to experience substantial financial losses. 22 Table of Contents Our drilling operations involve risks from high pressures and from mechanical difficulties such as stuck pipe, collapsed casing and separated cables. Our offshore properties involve higher exploration and drilling risks such as the cost of constructing exploration and production platforms and pipeline interconnections as well as weather delays and other risks. Although we carry insurance that we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, we are not fully insured against all casualty risks incident to our business. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Should an event occur against which we are not insured, that event could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and our results from operations. In addition, disruptions in financial markets have affected the credit standing of various insurance companies. Our ability to collect on our current or future claims and to obtain insurance at a price acceptable to us may be adversely affected by such general financial conditions, which are beyond our control. Our operations also entail significant operating risks. Our drilling activities involve risks, such as drilling non-productive wells or dry holes, which are beyond our control. The cost of drilling and operating wells and of installing production facilities and pipelines is uncertain. Cost overruns are common risks that often make a project uneconomical. The decision to purchase and to exploit a property depends on the evaluations made by our reserve engineers, the results of which are often inconclusive or subject to multiple interpretations. We may also decide to reduce or cease our drilling operations due to title problems, weather conditions, noncompliance with governmental requirements or shortages and delays in the delivery or availability of equipment or fabrication yards. We may not be able to effectively market our oil and natural gas production. We may encounter difficulties in the marketing of our oil and natural gas production. Effective marketing depends on factors such as the existing market supply and demand for oil and natural gas and the limitations imposed by governmental regulations. The proximity of our reserves to pipelines and the available capacity of such pipelines and other transportation, processing and refining facilities also affect our marketing efforts. Even if we discover hydrocarbons in commercial quantities, a substantial period of time may elapse before we begin commercial production. If pipeline facilities in an area are insufficient, we may have to wait for the construction or expansion of pipeline capacity before we can market production from that area. Another risk lies in our ability to negotiate commercially satisfactory arrangements with the owners and operators of production platforms in close proximity to our wells. Also, natural gas wells may be shut in for lack of market demand or because of the inadequate capacity or unavailability of natural gas pipelines or gathering systems. We are dependent on other operators who influence our productivity. We have limited influence over the nature and timing of exploration and development on oil and natural gas properties we do not operate, including limited control over the maintenance of both safety and environmental standards. In 2009, 11% of our production and 13% of our reserves were outside operated. The operators of those properties may drill more wells or build more facilities on a project than we can adequately finance, which may limit our participation in those projects or limit our percentage of the revenues from those projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our anticipated exploration and development activities. Our working interest owners may face cash flow and liquidity concerns. If oil and natural gas prices remain at present levels or decline further, many of our working interest owners may experience liquidity and cash flow problems. These problems may lead to their attempting to delay the pace of drilling or project development in order to conserve cash. Any such delay may be detrimental to our projects. Some working interest 23 Table of Contents owners may be unwilling or unable to pay their share of the project costs as they become due. A working interest owner may declare bankruptcy and refuse or be unable to pay its share of the project costs and we would be obligated to pay that working interest owner’s share of the project costs. Our drilling projects are based in part on seismic data, which is costly and cannot ensure the commercial success of the project. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often uncertain. Even when used and properly interpreted, 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists and geologists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies require greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, resulting in higher finding costs. Because of these factors, we could incur losses as a result of exploratory drilling expenditures. Poor results from exploration activities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, ability to replace reserves and results of operations. Our inability to develop new exploration prospects will inhibit our growth. From time to time, our business strategy has included acquisition and development of new exploration prospects that complement or expand our prospect inventory. We may not be able to identify attractive prospect opportunities. Even if we do identify attractive opportunities, we may not have the capital to be able to complete the acquisition of the prospect or to do so on commercially acceptable terms. If we do acquire additional prospects, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition, due to lack of available capital. Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions impacting our suppliers or our customers, may adversely impact our operations. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. These occurrences could have an adverse impact on energy prices, including prices for our natural gas and crude oil production. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any or a combination of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Forward-Looking Information From time to time, we may make certain statements that contain “forward-looking” information as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and that involve risk and uncertainty. These forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to exploration and seismic acquisition plans, anticipated results from current and future exploration prospects, future capital expenditure plans, anticipated results from third party disputes and litigation, expectations regarding compliance with our Credit Facility, the anticipated results of wells based on logging data and production tests, future sales of production, earnings, margins, production levels and costs, market trends in the oil and natural gas industry and the exploration and development sector thereof, environmental and other expenditures and various business trends. Forward-looking statements may be made by management orally or in writing including, but not limited to, this Risk Factors section, the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 24 Table of Contents Operations section and other sections of this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 