ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in our reports filed with the SEC, including the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of our Company before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we presently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our Company. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Any Development of Our Resources Will Be Subject To Crown Royalties. The royalty regime of Alberta is a significant factor in the profitability of oil and natural gas production in Alberta, Canada. Crown royalties are determined by government regulation and are generally calculated as a percentage of the value of the gross production with the royalty rate dependent in part upon prescribed reference prices, well productivity, geographical location, field discovery date and the type and quality of the petroleum product produced. From time to time, the governments of Canada and Alberta have established incentive programs such as royalty rate reductions, royalty holidays, tax credits, and more recently drilling royalty credits and a new well incentive program, which provides a maximum five percent royalty rate for all new wells that begin producing conventional oil and natural gas between April 1, 2009 and March 31, 2011. These incentives are for the purpose of encouraging oil and natural gas exploration or enhanced recovery projects. These incentives generally increase cash flow. Penalties and interest may be charged to us if we fail to remit royalties on our production to the Crown as prescribed in the regulation. We Are An Exploration Stage Company Implementing A New Business Plan. We are an exploration stage Company with only a limited operating history upon which to base an evaluation of our current business and future prospects, and we have just begun to implement our business plan. Since our inception, we have suffered recurring losses from operations and have been dependent on new investment to sustain our operations. During the years ended September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 we reported net losses of $2,167,343, $2,796,055 and $1,435,664 respectively. In addition, our consolidated financial statements for the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 contained a “going concern” qualification and we cannot give any assurances that we can achieve profits from any future operations. The Successful Implementation Of Our Business Plan Is Subject To Risks Inherent In The Heavy Oil Business. Our heavy oil operations are subject to the economic risks typically associated with exploration, development and production activities, including the necessity of significant expenditures to locate and acquire properties and to drill exploratory wells. In addition, the cost and timing of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. In conducting exploration and development activities, the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our exploration, development and production activities to be unsuccessful. This could result in a total loss of our investment in a particular property. If exploration efforts are unsuccessful in establishing proven reserves and exploration activities cease, the amounts accumulated as unproven costs will be charged against earnings as impairments. Our exploitation and development of oil and gas reserves depends upon access to the areas where our operations are to be conducted. We conduct a portion of our operations in regions where we are only able to do so on a seasonal basis. Unless the surface is sufficiently frozen, we are unable to access our properties, drill or otherwise conduct our operations as planned. In addition, if the surface thaws earlier than expected, we must cease our operations for the season earlier than planned. Our operations are affected by road bans imposed from time to time during the break-up and thaw period in the Spring. Road bans are also imposed due to spring-break up, heavy rain, mud, rock slides and periods of high water, which can restrict access to our well sites and potential production facility sites. Our inability to access our properties or to conduct our operations as planned will result in a shutdown or slow down of our operations, which will adversely affect our business. 12 We Rely On Independent Experts And Technical Or Operational Service Providers Over Whom We May Have Limited Control. The success of our business is dependent upon the efforts of various third parties that we do not control. We rely upon various companies to assist us in identifying desirable oil prospects to acquire and to provide us with technical assistance and services. We also rely upon the services of geologists, geophysicists, chemists, engineers and other scientists to explore and analyze oil prospects to determine a method in which the oil prospects may be developed in a cost-effective manner. In addition, we rely upon the owners and operators of oil drilling equipment to drill and develop our prospects to production. Although we have developed relationships with a number of third-party service providers, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to rely on such persons. If any of these relationships with third-party service providers are terminated or are unavailable on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our limited control over the activities and business practices of these third parties, any inability on our part to maintain satisfactory commercial relationships with them or their failure to provide quality services could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Interests Are Held In The Form Of Leases That We May Be Unable To Retain. Our Swan Lake property is held under leases and working interests in leases. These leases we are a party to are for a fixed term of 15 years, but contain a provision that allows us to extend the term of the lease so long as we meet the minimum level of evaluation as set out by the Government of Alberta tenure guidelines. If we or the holder of a lease fails to meet the specific requirements of the lease regarding delay or non-payment of rental payments or we or the holder of the lease fail to meet the minimum level of evaluation some or all of our leases may terminate or expire. There can be no assurance that any of the obligations required to maintain each lease will be met. The termination or expiration of our leases or the working interests relating to leases may reduce our opportunity to exploit a given prospect for oil production and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We Expect Our Operating Expenses To Increase Substantially In The Future And We May Need To Raise Additional Funds. We have a history of net losses and expect that our operating expenses will increase substantially over the next 12 months as we continue to implement our business plan. In addition, we may experience a material decrease in liquidity due to unforeseen capital calls or other events and uncertainties. As a result, we may need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on favourable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute on our business plan, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. This may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Ability To Produce Sufficient Quantities Of Oil From Our Properties May Be Adversely Affected By A Number Of Factors Outside Of Our Control. The business of exploring for and producing oil and gas involves a substantial risk of investment loss. Drilling oil wells involves the risk that the wells may be unproductive or that, although productive, the wells may not produce oil in economic quantities. Other hazards such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, fires, blowouts, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well. Adverse weather conditions can also hinder drilling operations. A productive well may become uneconomic due to pressure depletion, water encroachment, mechanical difficulties, etc., which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well. There can be no assurance that oil will be produced from the properties in which we have interests. Marketability of any oil that we acquire or discover may be influenced by numerous factors beyond our control. The marketability of our production will depend on the proximity of our reserves to and the capacity of, third party facilities and services, including oil and natural gas gathering systems, pipelines, trucking or terminal facilities, and processing facilities. The unavailability or insufficient capacity of these facilities and services could force us to shut-in producing wells, delay the commencement of production, or discontinue development plans for some of our properties, which would adversely affect our financial condition and performance. There may be periods of time when pipeline capacity is inadequate to meet our oil transportation needs. During periods when pipeline capacity is inadequate, we may be forced to reduce production or incur additional expense as existing production is compressed to fit into existing pipelines. Other risk factors include availability of drilling and related equipment, market fluctuations of prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, allowable production and environmental protection. We cannot predict how these factors may affect our business. We Do Not Control All Of Our Operations. We do not operate all of our properties and we therefore have limited influence over the testing, drilling and production operations of those properties. Andora currently operates 12 of our 68 oil sections in which we have a working interest. Currently, our Company has a 100% working interest in 15 sections of petroleum and natural gas licenses in the Peace River area of Alberta, Canada, an 80% working interest in 56 contiguous sections of oil sands development leases, and a 40% working interest in an additional 12 contiguous sections of oil sands development leases in the Peace River oil sands area of Alberta, Canada. Our P&NG licenses and oil sands development leases cover 52,505 gross acres (21,248 gross hectares). Our lack of control of the 12 sections Andora currently operates could result in the following: · Andora might initiate exploration or development on a faster or slower pace than we prefer; 13 · Andora might propose to drill more wells or build more facilities on a project than we have funds for or that we deem appropriate, which could mean that we are unable to participate in the project or share in the revenues generated by the project; · If Andora refuses to initiate a project on these 12 sections, we might be unable to pursue the project. Any of these events could materially reduce the value of those properties affected. We Are Party To Some Lawsuits And Will Be Adversely Affected If We Are Found To Be Liable In Connection With Any Legal Proceedings. We are party to some lawsuits described in this Form 10-K under the heading “Legal Proceedings”. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against the claims made in the lawsuits, but we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings, the commencement or outcome of any future proceedings against us, or whether any such proceeding would lead to monetary damages that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Aboriginal Peoples May Make Claims Regarding The Lands On Which Our Operations Are Conducted. Aboriginal peoples have claimed aboriginal title and rights to a substantial portion of western Canada. Since aboriginal peoples have filed a claim claiming aboriginal title or rights to the lands on which some of our properties are located, and if such a claim is successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The ERCB governs our operations in Alberta, Canada and they have implemented a new directive (Directive 056) that the Alberta Government issued its First Nations Consultation Policy on Land Management and Resource Development on May 16, 2005. The ERCB expects that all industry applicants must adhere to this policy and the consultation guidelines. These requirements and expectations apply to the licensing of all new energy developments and all modifications to existing energy developments, as covered in Directive 056. In the policy, the Alberta Government has developed consultation guidelines to address specific questions about how consultation for land management and resource development should occur in relation to specific activities. Prior to filing an application, the applicant must address all questions, objections, and concerns regarding the proposed development project and attempt to resolve them. This includes concerns and objections raised by members of the public, industry, government representatives, First Nations, Métis, and other interested parties. This process can cause significant delays in obtaining a drilling permit for exploration and/or a production well license for both oil and gas. Our Operations Are Subject To A Wide Range of Environmental Legislation and Regulation From All Levels Of Government Of Which We Have No Control. Environmental legislation imposes, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills, releases and emissions of various substances to the environment. As well, environmental regulations are imposed on the qualities and compositions of the products sold and imported. Environmental legislation also requires that wells, facility sites and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. In addition, certain types of operations, including exploration and development projects and significant changes to certain existing projects, may require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Compliance with environmental legislation can require significant expenditures and failure to comply with environmental legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties and liability for clean up costs and damages. We cannot assure that the costs of complying with environmental legislation in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We anticipate that changes in environmental legislation may require, among other things, reductions in emissions to the air from its operations and result in increased capital expenditures. Future changes in environmental legislation could occur and result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Market Fluctuations In The Prices Of Oil Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Prices for oil tend to fluctuate significantly in response to factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the continued threat of war in the Middle East and actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its maintenance of production constraints, the U.S. economic environment, weather conditions, the availability of alternate fuel sources, transportation interruption, the impact of drilling levels on crude oil and natural gas supply, and the environmental and access issues that could limit future drilling activities for the industry. Changes in commodity prices may significantly affect our capital resources, liquidity and expected operating results. Price changes directly affect revenues and can indirectly impact expected production by changing the amount of funds available to reinvest in exploration and development activities. Reductions in oil and gas prices not only reduce revenues and profits, but could also reduce the quantities of reserves that are commercially recoverable. Significant declines in prices could result in non-cash charges to earnings due to impairment. Changes in commodity prices may also significantly affect our ability to estimate the value of producing properties for acquisition and divestiture and often cause disruption in the market for oil producing properties, as buyers and sellers have difficulty agreeing on the value of the properties. Price volatility also makes it difficult to budget for and project the return on acquisitions and development and exploitation of projects. We expect that commodity prices will continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. 14 Our Stock Price Could Decline. Our common stock is traded on the pink sheets. There can be no assurance that an active public market will continue for the common stock or that the market price for the common stock will not decline below its current price. Such price may be influenced by many factors, including but not limited to, investor perception of us and our industry and general economic and market conditions. The trading price of the common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to announcements of our business developments or our competitors, quarterly variations in operating results, and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of companies, at times for reasons unrelated to their operating performance. Such broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our stock price may decline as a result of future sales of our shares or the perception that such sales may occur. We Could Be Subject to SEC Penalties If We Do Not File All Of Our SEC Reports. Although we are presently up to date in our filings, in the past we have not filed all of our annual and quarterly reports, required to be filed by us with the SEC, in a timely manner. It is possible that the SEC could take enforcement action, including potentially the de-registration of our securities, against us, if we fail to file our annual and quarterly reports in a timely manner as required by the SEC. If the SEC were to take any such actions, it could adversely affect the liquidity of trading in our common stock and the amount of information about our Company that is publicly available. Broker-Dealers Are Not Permitted To Solicit Trades In Our Common Stock. Our common stock is considered to be a “penny stock” because it meets one or more of the definitions in the Exchange Act Rule 3a51-1, The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend the stock and may only trade in it on an unsolicited basis. Risks Related to Broker-Dealer Requirements Involving Penny Stocks / Risks Affecting Trading and Liquidity. Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the Commission require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. These rules may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market, if and when one develops. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stock.” Moreover, Commission Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Pursuant to the Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990, broker-dealers are further obligated to provide customers with monthly account statements. Compliance with the foregoing requirements may make it more difficult for investors in our stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. ITEM 