D. Risk Factors General Economic Conditions Amcor’s business may be affected by general economic conditions within Australia and globally (including, for example, government fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies, interest rates, tax rates, foreign exchange rates, oil prices, inflation and the industrial relations environment). Changes in the economic conditions in markets in which we operate may result in customers changing spending patterns and their level of general consumption, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial performance. From time to time input costs may rise particularly, but not only, resin and energy costs, and there may be a mismatch in the timing of recovery of these increases via increased prices to customers. Technology We operate in highly competitive business segments. Our industry continues to change in response to technological innovations and other factors. We cannot predict with certainty the changes that may affect our competitiveness. In particular, Polyethylene Terephthalate (which we will refer to as PET) product design and development may be subject to rapid technological change. We cannot predict whether technological innovations will make some of our products, production processes or distribution techniques wholly or partially obsolete. If this were to occur, we may be required to invest significant resources to further adapt to the changing competitive environment. In such a case the investments could negatively affect our profitability and results of operations. Increased or New Competition While we have a strong position in each of our key market segments (both in Australia and internationally), new competitors may emerge in the market and potential rivals may seek to increase market share. Price competition may have the effect of reducing margins and profitability. Laws and Regulations Our operations could be affected by government actions such as controls on prices, new forms of taxation and increased government regulation in the countries in which we operate. We also operate in some countries that pose political risks including civil unrest, nationalisation and changes in laws and policy. These political risks could have an adverse impact on the profitability of our operations. Competition Law Investigations The ACCC continued its investigation of conduct by Amcor that raised concerns under Australian competition laws. On December 21, 2005 the ACCC commenced legal proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia against certain Visy Group companies and executives in respect of alleged cartel conduct in the Australian corrugated packaging industry. The ACCC also announced that Amcor and its former senior executives have to date received immunity against ACCC-initiated court proceedings for any alleged cartel conduct. Accordingly Amcor is not a party to the Federal Court proceeding, conditional upon continuing full cooperation from Amcor and such former executives. The NZCC investigation of conduct by Amcor that raised concerns under New Zealand’s competition laws is incomplete. As previously notified, Amcor has been granted conditional immunity by the NZCC against NZCC-initiated court proceedings for any alleged cartel conduct. The granting of immunity by the ACCC and the NZCC does not exclude or limit the rights of third parties who claim to have suffered loss or damage to take legal proceedings. It is not possible at this stage to predict whether any alleged cartel conduct in Australia or New Zealand will result in third party proceedings for damages against Amcor or the loss of customers by Amcor. Although it is not possible at present to provide a reasonable estimated range of any damages that may be awarded if third party proceedings are commenced, there can be no assurance that any damages which ultimately may be awarded will not be material to the results of operations or the financial condition of Amcor. 9 Exchange Rates We are exposed to movement in exchange rates of foreign currencies – mainly the US$ and the Euro. The negative impact of a stronger Australian dollar, however, has only a notional effect as there is little repatriation of net profit from Amcor’s overseas businesses to Australia. We estimate that for each one cent change in the US$ or the Euro exchange rate against the A$ over a full year, the translation impact on A$ net profit would be approximately A$1.8 million or A$2.0 million respectively. Impact of Proposed Tax Law Changes Amcor operates in 40 jurisdictions and pays tax on its income according to the specific tax laws in each of these jurisdictions. As with any business, there are various factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact the overall effective tax rate for the Amcor Group. One such factor is changes in, or interpretations of, tax laws that apply in any given jurisdiction. Of particular relevance at the current time are proposed changes in U.S. Federal tax laws. The Amcor Group currently derives a significant portion of global income from operations in the U.S. As a result, the proposed U.S. Federal legislative and regulatory changes could, if enacted, increase the Group’s effective tax rate. Specifically, such proposals recommend measures that include (a) a more stringent enforcement of the arm’s length standards applying to related-party cross-border transactions, including pre-approval of certain transactions; (b) amending the rules governing cross-border reorganisations; and (c) denying treaty benefits for certain tax deductible payments to a foreign entity. The enacting of any or all of these proposals could adversely impact Amcor’s U.S. Federal income tax liability and, consequently, the earnings of the Group. At this stage it is not possible to predict either the extent to which the proposed changes might be enacted or the extent of any resulting impact on Amcor. In any event, Amcor operates a tax risk model that seeks to identify, monitor and manage tax risks as and when they occur throughout the Group. At the current time Amcor considers the above proposed changes to be the most likely to have an impact on the Amcor Group’s future effective tax rate if enacted. Environmental Amcor’s worldwide manufacturing operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation. We believe that we are currently substantially in compliance with these regulations. However, although compliance costs in future years will depend on legislative and technological developments which cannot be accurately predicted, Amcor believes the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations will increase as these laws and regulations become more stringent. These laws and regulations may, therefore have an unpredictable and adverse effect on our operations and profits. 