D. Risk Factors Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below. Our financial condition or results of operations, or the trading prices of our securities could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The following discussion contains a number of forward-looking statements. Please refer to the “Forward-Looking Statements” discussion at the front of this Annual Report for cautionary information. General Economic Conditions Amcor’s business may be affected by general economic conditions within Australia and globally (including, for example, government fiscal, monetary and regulatory policies, interest rates, tax rates, foreign exchange rates, oil prices, inflation and the industrial relations environment). Changes in the economic conditions in markets in which we operate may result in customers changing spending patterns and their level of general consumption, which may have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial performance. Raw materials price increases may reduce net income Many of the raw materials used by the Company are commodities purchased from third parties. Principal examples are recovered paper, aluminium and resin. Prices of these commodities are subject to substantial fluctuations that are beyond the Company’s control and can adversely affect profitability. Even though many of the Company’s long-term contracts with customers permit limited price adjustments to reflect increased raw material costs and, in addition, the Company can seek to increase prices in an effort to offset increases in raw materials costs, such adjustments may not occur quickly enough, or be sufficient to prevent a materially adverse effect on net income and cash flow. Energy cost increases may reduce net income In all business units, but particularly in the Amcor PET Packaging and the Amcor Flexibles businesses, the increasing cost of energy and energy related inputs have a significant impact. Unlike the limited raw material cost recovery under many of the Company’s contracts, there is little or no ability for the Company to recover other cost increases, including energy, under current contracts. Energy cost increases that cannot be recovered through higher selling prices may reduce net income. Because any opportunity to pass on increased costs is normally at the expiration of contracts, which have terms of up to five years in duration, there is a risk that energy cost increases may not be recovered in a timely manner, or at all. The Company may encounter difficulties arising from integrating acquisitions, restructuring operations or closing or disposing of facilities. Amcor has completed acquisitions, closed non-performing facilities, sold non-core assets and otherwise restructured operations in an effort to improve cost competitiveness and profitability. Some of these activities are ongoing, and there is no guarantee that any such activities will not divert the attention of management or disrupt the Company’s operations, or those of the Company’s subsidiaries. Moreover, production capacity, or the actual amount of products produced, may be reduced as a result of these activities. Technology We operate in highly competitive business segments. Our industry continues to change in response to technological innovations and other factors. We cannot predict with certainty the changes that may affect our competitiveness. In particular, Polyethylene Terephthalate (which we will refer to as PET) product design and development may be subject to rapid technological change. We cannot predict whether technological innovations will make some of our products, production processes or distribution techniques wholly or partially obsolete. If this were to occur, we may be required to invest significant resources to further adapt to the changing competitive environment. In such a case the investments could negatively affect our profitability and results of operations. - 12 - Exchange Rates We are exposed to movement in exchange rates of foreign currencies – mainly the US$ and the Euro. The negative impact of a stronger Australian dollar, however, has a limited effect as there is not a significant repatriation of net profit from Amcor’s overseas businesses to Australia. The 2005-06 profit attributable to members of Amcor Limited of A$351.3 million translated at exchange rates of the USD, Euro, Singapore, New Zealand and Canadian dollars at June 30, 2005 would result in a A$1.3 million lower profit for the year ended June 30, 2006. Laws and Regulations Our operations could be affected by government actions such as controls on prices, new forms of taxation and increased government regulation in the countries in which we operate. We also operate in some countries that pose political risks including civil unrest, nationalization and changes in laws and policy. These political risks could have an adverse impact on the profitability of our operations. Competition Law Investigations The ACCC and the NZCC are continuing their investigations of conduct by Amcor that raised concerns under Australian competition laws. Amcor has been granted conditional immunity by the ACCC and NZCC in accordance with their relevant leniency policies for cartel conduct. See Item 8, “Financial Information – Legal Proceedings” for further information. As a result of this grant of immunity Amcor does not expect to incur any pecuniary penalties arising out of the ACCC investigations or the NZCC investigations. The granting of immunity by the ACCC and the NZCC does not exclude or limit the rights of third parties who claim to have suffered loss or damage to initiate legal proceedings against Amcor. It is not possible at present to provide either a reasonable estimate, or a reasonable estimate range of any amounts which might become payable by way of damages to any third parties who might have suffered loss as a result of any cartel conduct in New Zealand. As of the date of this Annual Report, two such claims have been filed. On April 11, 2006, Jarra Creek Central Packaging Shed Pty Ltd filed a class action claim in the Federal Court of Australia against Amcor Ltd, Amcor Packaging (Australia) Ltd and Fibre Containers (Queensland) Pty Ltd alleging cartel behaviour and seeking declarations, injunctions and unspecified damages. On December 15, 2006, Cadbury Schweppes filed a proceeding in the Federal Court of Australia against Amcor Limited and Amcor Packaging (Australia) Pty Ltd alleging cartel behaviour and seeking damages and rectification of certain supply contracts. Although the amount claimed totals approximately $120 million, certain of the claims overlap. These two claims contain allegations only. These are not admissions by any party and evidence will have to be proved in court. Amcor is defending these two claims and in regards to the class action has brought a cross-claim against those Visy companies which are respondents to the ACCC penalty proceedings, claiming contribution to any damages which may be awarded against Amcor in the class action. Consequently, it is too early for Amcor to form any view on the outcome of the litigation in relation to both of these claims. Equally, no reliable assessment can be made at present of the prospects of success or the quantum of damages, if any, that may be awarded in either these proceedings or any other proceedings which may be instituted by third parties. Although it is not possible at present to establish a reasonable estimated range of damages, there can be no assurance that any damages ultimately incurred will not be material to the results of operations or financial condition of Amcor. Impact of Proposed Tax Law Changes Amcor operates in 49 tax jurisdictions and pays tax on its income according to the specific tax laws in each of these jurisdictions. As with any business, there are various factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact the overall effective tax rate for the Amcor Group. One such factor is changes in, or interpretations of, tax laws that apply in any given jurisdiction. Environmental - 13 - Amcor’s worldwide manufacturing operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation. We believe that we are currently substantially in compliance with these regulations. However, although compliance costs in future years will depend on legislative and technological developments which cannot be accurately predicted, Amcor believes the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations will increase as these laws and regulations become more stringent. These laws and regulations may, therefore have an unpredictable and adverse effect on our operations and profits. Goodwill—A significant write down of goodwill would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth As part of the adoption of AIFRS we no longer amortize goodwill, but we review our goodwill balance for impairment at least once a year. Goodwill is tested as part of the cash-generating unit to which it relates. If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the company recognizes an impairment loss for the cash-generating unit. These methods include the use of a weighted-average cost of capital to calculate the present value of the expected future cash flows of our cash generating units. Future changes in the cost of capital, expected cash flows, or other factors may cause our goodwill to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write down these assets for the amount of the impairment. If a significant write down is required, the charge would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth. 