ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important risks which could adversely affect the Company's future results. If any of the following risks actually occurred, the Company's business and financial condition or the results of its operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of the Company's common stock could decline, and investors could lose all or part of their investment in SPSS. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to SPSS, or those SPSS currently believes are immaterial, could also impair the Company's business operations. 10 THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL RESULTS AND STOCK PRICE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS WHICH ARE BEYOND ITS CONTROL. The Company's quarterly revenue and operating results have varied in the past and may continue to do so in the future due to several factors, including: - The influence of third party vendors and development delays on the number and timing of product updates and new product introductions; - Delays in product development and introduction of new technologies; - Purchasing schedules of its customers; - Changes in foreign currency exchange rates; - Changes in prescribed accounting rules and practices; - The timing of product shipments as a result of the delivery schedules of fulfillment vendors and the timing of solution implementations; - Changes in product mix and solutions revenues; - Timing, cost and effects of acquisitions; and - General economic conditions. Because expense levels are to a large extent based on forecasts of future revenues, the Company's operating results may be adversely affected if its future revenues fall below expectations. Accordingly, SPSS believes that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of its results of operations may not be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. In addition, the timing and amount of the Company's revenues may be affected by a number of factors that make estimation of operating results before the end of a quarter uncertain. A significant portion of the Company's operating expenses are relatively fixed, and planned expenditures are based primarily on revenue forecasts. The variable profit margins on modest increases in sales volume at the end of fiscal quarters are significant and, should SPSS fail to achieve these revenue increases, net income could be materially affected. Generally, if revenues do not meet the Company's expectations in any given quarter, its operating results will be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that profitability on a quarterly or annual basis can be achieved or sustained in the future. THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THE COMPANY'S ACQUISITIONS MAY NOT MATERIALIZE, THEREBY EXPOSING THE COMPANY TO MORE EXPENSIVE AND LESS EFFICIENT OPERATIONS. SPSS has made a number of acquisitions, including the acquisition of businesses based outside of the United States. Part of the Company's growth strategy includes pursuing additional acquisitions. Any of these transactions could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology involves risk and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. These areas of risk include: - the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies at companies that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; - interruption of, or a distraction of management's attention from, the Company's business; - cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the Company's organization; and - the need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management. Foreign acquisitions involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned above, including those related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. 11 SPSS may not be able to consummate these potential future acquisitions on terms acceptable to it, or at all. Further, the anticipated benefit of many of the Company's acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of the Company's equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm the Company's financial condition. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on SPSS. IF SPSS DOES NOT RESPOND ADEQUATELY TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES, ITS EARNINGS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. The computer software industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, as well as frequent enhancements to and introductions of technologies. The Company's future success will depend upon its ability to enhance its existing software and introduce new software products that keep pace with technological developments, respond to evolving customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. In particular, SPSS believes it must continue to respond quickly to users' needs for greater functionality, improved usability and support for new hardware and operating systems. Any failure by SPSS to respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or any significant delays in software development or introduction, could result in loss of revenues. In the past, SPSS has, on occasion, experienced delays in the introduction of new software and enhancements to existing technology, primarily due to difficulties with particular operating environments and problems with software provided by third parties. The extent of these delays has varied depending upon the size and scope of the project and the nature of the problems encountered. These delays have most often resulted from "bugs" encountered in working with new versions of operating systems and other third party software, and "bugs" or unexpected difficulties in existing third party software which complicate integration with the Company's software. From time to time, SPSS has discovered "bugs" in its software that are resolved through maintenance releases or through periodic updates depending upon the seriousness of the defect. There can be no assurance that SPSS will be successful in developing and marketing new software or enhancements to existing technology on a timely basis or that SPSS will not experience significant delays or defects in its software in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that new software or enhancements to existing technology developed by SPSS will achieve market acceptance or that developments by others will not render its technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. REVENUES FROM INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS REPRESENT A LARGE PERCENTAGE OF THE COMPANY'S NET REVENUES. CERTAIN RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OPERATING THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE AFFECT ON ITS BUSINESS. Revenues from operations outside of the United States accounted for approximately 56% of the Company's total revenues in 2005, 58% in 2006 and 59% in 2007. SPSS expects that revenues from international operations will continue to represent a large percentage of its net revenues and that this percentage may increase, particularly as SPSS further "localizes" products by translating them into additional languages and expands its operations through acquisitions of companies outside the United States. A number of risk factors may affect the Company's international revenues, including: - greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection; - longer payment cycles; - exposure to currency fluctuations; - political and economic instability; - the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory requirements; and - fluctuations in anticipated tax liabilities. SPSS also believes that it is exposed to greater levels of software piracy in certain international markets where weaker protection is afforded to intellectual property. As SPSS expands its international operations, the risks described above could increase and, in any event, could have a material adverse effect on SPSS. 12 THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE MAY EXPERIENCE VOLATILITY, THEREBY CAUSING A POTENTIAL LOSS OF VALUE TO ITS INVESTORS. There has been significant volatility in the market prices of securities of technology companies, including SPSS, and, in some instances, this volatility has been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. SPSS also believes that, in addition to factors such as interest rates and economic conditions which affect stock prices generally, some, but not all, of the factors which could result in fluctuations in its stock price include: - announcements of new products by SPSS or its competitors; - quarterly variations in financial results; - recommendations and reports of analysts; - acquisitions; and - other factors beyond the Company's control. SPSS RELIES ON THIRD PARTIES FOR CERTAIN SOFTWARE. THE LOSS OF THESE RELATIONSHIPS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S PRODUCTS. SPSS licenses software from third parties. Some of this licensed software is embedded in its products, and some is offered as add-on products. If these licenses are discontinued, or become invalid or unenforceable, there can be no assurance that SPSS will be able to develop substitutes for this software independently or to obtain alternative sources in a timely manner. Any delays in obtaining or developing substitutes for licensed software could have a material adverse effect on SPSS. THE COMPANY'S CONTINUED USE OF THE SPSS TRADEMARK MAY BE PROHIBITED OR OTHERWISE SUBJECTED TO ECONOMICALLY BURDENSOME CONDITIONS. As discussed further under Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," the Company has filed a lawsuit against Norman H. Nie, a former director of the Company, and C. Hadlai Hull, an employee of the Company, regarding the Company's right to use the SPSS trademark. The filing of the lawsuit was in response to recent assertions by Dr. Nie that the Company's use of the trademark is subject to a License Agreement (the "Agreement") dated September 30, 1976 between a predecessor of the Company, as licensee, and Norman H. Nie and C. Hadlai Hull, as licensors. Dr. Nie has stated his desire to enforce alleged ownership rights under the Agreement, which rights he claims include the right to inspect and approve the Company's products sold under the SPSS trademark and to obtain other information regarding those products. Dr. Nie and Mr. Hull have subsequently filed a counterclaim against the Company pursuant to which they are seeking to enjoin the Company from continuing to use the SPSS trademark. The Company is seeking a declaratory judgment that Dr. Nie and Mr. Hull are estopped from enforcing any rights under the Agreement and that the Company shall be deemed to have an irrevocable, assignable and exclusive license to use the SPSS trademark. Even if the Company's use of the SPSS trademark is determined to be subject to the Agreement, the Company believes that it is in full compliance with any obligations it may have under the Agreement and expects to continue to have the right to use the SPSS trademark consistent with its past practices. However, an adverse result in this lawsuit could result in the Company losing the right to use the SPSS trademark; increase the Company's costs to comply with the inspection and product approval rights asserted by Dr. Nie; hinder or delay the development and introduction by the Company of new products sold under the SPSS trademark; or result in the Company having to pay damages for trademark infringement. SPSS RELIES ON THIRD PARTIES FOR SOFTWARE DISTRIBUTION. THE LOSS OF THESE RELATIONSHIPS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S OPERATING RESULTS. Since January 1997, SPSS has had a software distribution agreement with Banta Global Turnkey. The original agreement was amended and restated in January 2006. Pursuant to the software distribution agreement, Banta manufactures, packages and distributes a majority of the Company's software products to its domestic and international customers and various international subsidiaries. Either party may terminate the agreement for cause if 13 the other party materially breaches its obligations. If Banta fails to perform adequately any of its obligations under the Banta agreement, the Company's operating results could be materially adversely affected. CHANGES IN PUBLIC EXPENDITURES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. A significant portion of the Company's revenues comes from licenses of its software directly to government entities both internationally and in the United States. In addition, significant amounts of the Company's revenues come from licenses to academic institutions, healthcare organizations and private businesses that contract with or are funded by government entities. Government appropriations processes are often slow and unpredictable and may be affected by factors outside the Company's control. In addition, proposals are currently being made in various countries to reduce government spending. Reductions in government expenditures and termination or renegotiation of government-funded programs or contracts could have a material adverse effect on SPSS. In addition, declines in overall levels of economic activity could also have a material adverse impact on SPSS. SPSS MAY BE UNABLE TO CONTINUE TO COMPETE WITH COMPANIES IN ITS INDUSTRY THAT HAVE FINANCIAL OR OTHER ADVANTAGES. FAILURE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS. The Company's historical market for statistical software is both highly competitive and fragmented. SPSS is among the largest companies in the statistical software market. However, SPSS faces competition from providers of statistical software, data mining tools, predictive analytic solutions and enterprise feedback management applications. SPSS believes that it competes effectively against its competitors, but there can be no assurance that it will continue to do so in the future. In the future, SPSS may also face competition from new entrants into its current or future markets. Some of these potential competitors may have significant capital resources, marketing experience and research and development capabilities. Competitive pressures from the introduction of new solutions and products by these companies or other companies could have a material adverse effect on SPSS. SPSS DEPENDS ON KEY EXECUTIVES. A LOSS OF THESE EXECUTIVES AND OTHER PERSONNEL COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT THE COMPANY'S OPERATIONS. SPSS is dependent on the efforts of various key executives and employees. The Company's continued success will depend in part on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, sales, marketing and other personnel. Competition for highly qualified personnel is intense. The Company's inability to continue to attract or retain highly qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on its financial position and results of operation. No life insurance policies are maintained on the Company's key personnel. SPSS MAY NOT RECEIVE THE FULL BENEFITS OF ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTIONS. The analytical algorithms incorporated in the Company's software are not proprietary. SPSS believes that the portion of its technology that is proprietary is the portion that determines the speed and quality of displaying the results of computations, the ability of its software to work in conjunction with third party software, and the ease of use of its software. The Company's success will depend, in part, on its ability to protect these proprietary aspects of its software. SPSS attempts to protect its proprietary software with trade secret laws and internal nondisclosure safeguards, as well as copyright, trademark and patent laws and contractual restrictions on copying, disclosure and transferability that are incorporated into its software license agreements. However, there is no guarantee that these protections will prove effective. Preventing unauthorized use of computer software is difficult, and software piracy is a persistent problem for the packaged software industry. These problems may be particularly acute in international markets. In addition, the laws of various countries in which the Company's software is or may be licensed do not protect its software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Despite the precautions that SPSS takes, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to reverse engineer or copy the Company's products or obtain and use information that SPSS regards as proprietary. There can be no assurance that the steps that SPSS takes to protect its proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology. 14 There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against SPSS or that any infringement assertion will not result in costly litigation or require SPSS to obtain a license to use the intellectual property of third parties. There can be no assurance that these licenses will be available on reasonable terms, or at all. There can also be no assurance that the Company's competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company's technologies. THE AVAILABILITY OF COMPETITIVE OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE TO THE PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS MARKET OR THE USE OF OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE IN THE COMPANY'S PRODUCTS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS. Open source software includes a broad range of software applications and operating environments produced by companies, development organizations and individual software developers and is typically licensed for use, distribution and modification at a nominal cost or often, free of charge. To the extent that the open source software models expand and non-commercial companies and software developers create and contribute competitive analytical software to the open source community, SPSS may have to adjust its pricing, maintenance and distribution strategies and models, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position and results of operation. In addition, if one of the Company's developers embedded open source software into one or more of the Company's products without the Company's knowledge or authorization or a third party has incorporated open source software into such third party's software without disclosing the presence of such open source software and SPSS embedded such third party software into one or more of its products, SPSS could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to such products. In that case, SPSS would not own such products and could not charge license fees for such products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROTECTIONS MAY MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE SPSS. SPSS maintains a stockholder rights agreement which was adopted by the Board in 1998 and amended in June 2004. The rights agreement and common stock purchase rights issued in connection with the rights agreement are intended to ensure that its stockholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of a proposed takeover of SPSS. The rights agreement may discourage a potential acquirer from acquiring control of SPSS. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws contain a number of provisions, including provisions requiring an 80% super-majority stockholder approval of specified actions and provisions for a staggered Board of Directors, which would make the acquisition of SPSS, by means of an unsolicited tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, more difficult. The Company's By-laws provide for a staggered Board of Directors so that only one-third of the total number of directors are replaced or re-elected each year. Therefore, potential acquirers of SPSS may face delays in replacing the existing directors. Certain of the Company's executive officers and other officers may be entitled to substantial payments and other benefits following a change of control of SPSS. These payments could have the effect of discouraging a potential acquirer from acquiring control of SPSS. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS N/A 