Risk Factors” of this document. In addition, such forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent upon assumptions, estimates, and data that may be incorrect or imprecise and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors. Accordingly, forward-looking statements included in this report do not purport to be predictions of future events or circumstances and may not be realized. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or to persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing cautionary statements. Given these uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update any such factors or to announce publicly the results of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements contained in this report to reflect future events or developments. 3 Table of Contents (a) General Development of Business We are a wireless communications service provider focusing primarily on rural markets in the United States. Our principal operating objective is to increase revenue and achieve profitability through increased penetration in our existing wireless markets. Our operating territories include portions of five states in the Northeast, three states in the Northwest, four states in the Midwest, and three states in the South. Within each of our four territories, we have deployed a strong local sales and customer service presence in the communities we serve. Our marketed networks covered a total population (“POPs”) of approximately 6.5 million and served approximately 706,000 voice customers as of December 31, 2005. The following table summarizes our existing wireless systems as of December 31, 2005: Post and Prepaid Customers (Not including paging and long distance) Customers Percentage Service Area as of December 31, Square Ownership POPS (1) 2005 2004 Miles States Territories Cellular: Midwest 100 % 741,000 133,000 124,000 45,000 MN, ND, SD Northeast 100 % 2,174,000 251,000 267,000 46,000 MA, ME, NH, NY, VT South 100 % 2,011,000 97,000 118,000 79,000 AL, KS, MS Northwest 100 % 825,000 118,000 127,000 77,000 ID, OR, WA Total 5,651,000 599,000 636,000 247,000 PCS: Wireless Alliance 70 % 754,000 11,000 13,000 19,000 MN, ND, SD, WI Wholesale N/A 96,000 81,000 N/A Total 6,505,000 706,000 730,000 266,000 (1) Reflects 2000 U.S. Census Bureau population data updated for December 2002. We believe our markets have favorable characteristics for the deployment of wireless networks. Because of the rural demographics of our markets, which typically have lower population densities, we face fewer competitors than more urban markets. Also, in a number of our service areas, we are entitled to federal support funds that subsidize our expansion into high-cost territories that otherwise would not have telephone service, including wireless services. We believe that our extensive network of local distribution channels and our focus on local customer service provide us with a competitive advantage over larger wireless providers. We have tailored our marketing and distribution strategy to rely on local distributors and agents in areas where locating a direct retail store might not be cost-effective based on the demographic characteristics of those areas. Our coverage areas have a large number of vacation destinations, substantial highway miles, and long distances between population centers, all of which we believe contribute to frequent roaming on our network by customers of other wireless providers. As a result, we have been able to negotiate long-term roaming agreements with several of the country’s largest wireless carriers that do not have as significant of a presence in our markets. Our roaming agreements with other carriers help to provide us with a base of roaming revenue, which generates higher margins than local service revenue. Our networks utilize both 850 MHz and 1900 MHz spectrum in our service areas. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 47% of our wireless customers were using either CDMA or GSM handsets with advanced features that can be utilized throughout their respective service areas. With our networks, we are well equipped to offer our customers regional and local wireless coverage, and we manage our networks to 4 Table of Contents provide high quality service, with minimal call blocking and dropped calls and seamless call delivery and hand-off. In July 2005, we centralized and streamlined our business organizational structure in order to redeploy resources to better support our new products and services. Accordingly, RCC’s sales, customer service, network operations, and financial areas are now managed on a functional basis through a centralized management structure. We believe this change will allow us to more efficiently apply best practices company-wide, streamline decision-making, and improve our relationship with customers. Our 2005 operating results reflect the following: • Continued construction of our 2.5G networks and, accordingly, improved roaming minutes over the previous year, • Continued transition of our customers to 2.5G handsets, • Increased service revenue, primarily reflecting higher Local Service Revenue (“LSR”) and Universal Service Fund (“USF”) support, • Increased costs required to support and market 2.5G networks, products, and customers, and • Increased customer churn and declining customers, reflecting increased customer care needs, which we encountered during the commercial introduction of our GSM networks and transition to a new technology billing system. For the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004, service revenue increased 2.8% to $387.8 million and LSR increased to $50 as compared with $46. Contributing to the increase in LSR were increased levels of USF support and increased access, data, and features revenue. USF support payments increased to $40.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to $28.2 million for the prior year. During 2005, our total customers decreased by 24,209 to 705,602 at year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to 729,811 at December 31, 2004. We believe the reasons contributing to the decrease include the transitional stage of our networks, migration of customers to 2.5G products and services, and the change in billing systems. Roaming revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $122.8 million as compared to $105.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in roaming revenue reflects increased roaming outcollect minutes as compared to the comparable period of the prior year partially offset by outcollect roaming yield declining to $0.15 per minute in the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to $0.16 per minute in the year ended December 31, 2004. At December 31, 2005, substantially all of our 1,061 cell sites were equipped with 2.5G technology. During the year ended December 31, 2005 and year ended December 31, 2004, 2.5G outcollect minutes accounted for 80% and 35%, respectively, of our total outcollect minutes. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 47% of our postpaid customers were using new technology handsets as compared to 6% at December 31, 2004. 5 Table of Contents Our 2005 balance sheet reflects the following: • Payment of four quarterly dividends. On October 10, 2005, our board declared payment of four quarterly dividends on our outstanding senior exchangeable preferred stock (“Senior Exchangeable Preferred Stock”). These dividends, which were paid on October 26, 2005, represented the quarterly dividends payable on November 15, 2004, February 14, 2005, May 15, 2005 and August 15, 2005, and totaled $118.69 per share, including accrued interest. The aggregate total dividends of approximately $17.8 million reduced the number of unpaid quarterly dividends on the senior exchangeable preferred stock to five, which remedied the then existing “Voting Rights Triggering Event” and removed any uncertainty regarding our ability to incur indebtedness, including under the revolving credit facility. We did not declare or pay the quarterly dividends due in November 2005 or February 2006. Accordingly, there now exists a “Voting Rights Triggering Event.” • Revolving Credit Facility. Effective October 18, 2005, we received approval from a majority of the banks who are lenders under our revolving credit facility to exclude $17.8 million of senior exchangeable preferred dividends paid on October 26, 2005, from the interest coverage covenant calculation. We also borrowed $58.0 million against the revolving credit facility on November 3, 2005 and were in compliance with all of the credit facility financial covenants as of December 31, 2005. Our failure to pay the cash dividends on our senior exchangeable preferred stock may affect our ability to incur additional debt under the revolving credit facility. • Conversion of Class T Convertible Preferred Stock into Common Stock. On October 27, 2005, RCC converted all of its outstanding shares of Class T convertible preferred stock into 43,000 shares of Class A and 105,940 shares of Class B common stock. This conversion resulted in a gain of approximately $6.7 million, which partially offset preferred stock dividends in 2005. • Offering of Senior Subordinated Floating Rate Notes. On November 7, 2005, the Company completed an offering of $175 million of Senior Subordinated Floating Rate Notes due 2012 which were sold at an original issue discount of $2.2 million, or 1.25%. The effective interest rate at December 31, 2005 was 10.30%. Interest is reset quarterly. With the proceeds of this offering, we redeemed all of our outstanding 9 5/8% senior subordinated notes. The total amount for such repurchase was approximately $133.8 million, including $125.0 million aggregate principal, $6.8 million accrued interest to the repurchase date of December 7, 2005, and $2 million premium for early repurchase. • Exchange of Senior Exchangeable Preferred Stock for Class A Common Stock. In 2005, we exchanged an aggregate of 10,535 shares of our senior exchangeable preferred stock for an aggregate of 1,152,745 shares of our Class A common stock in negotiated transactions. The shares were issued in reliance upon the exemption from registration provided in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. • Repurchase of Senior Exchangeable Preferred Stock. In 2005, we repurchased 14,932 shares of senior exchangeable preferred stock for $13.4 million. • Capital Expenditures. Including the cost of our network overlays, our total capital expenditures for 2005 were approximately $95.0 million compared to $94.4 million in 2004. 6 Table of Contents (b) Financial Information about Segments Our business consists of one reportable operating segment, the operation of wireless communication systems in the United States. (c) Description of Business/Service Areas Marketing of Products and Services Local Service We have developed our marketing strategy on a market-by-market basis and offer service plan options to our customers tailored to address their specific needs and to encourage cellular usage. In general, because our customers typically live in rural areas, they are more likely to purchase plans that provide a regional footprint than a national one. Most of our service plans have a fixed monthly access fee, which includes a specified number of minutes, and incremental fees for enhanced services. As a result of our focus on marketing strategies as well as the upgrade of our networks to digital capability, we are able to offer our customers an array of services on an individual or bundled basis including: • Short Message Service – allows a customer to receive and send text messages or content messages. • Voicemail — allows a customer to receive and retrieve voicemail. • Wireless Imaging Service – allows customers to receive and send pictures to another wireless handset or PC. • 2.5G Technology Data Services – includes picture phones, BREW and Java service, data cards, and Internet accessibility allowing customers to download ring-tones, games, graphics, entertainment and information. • Mobile Web – allows customers to access the Internet from a laptop computer through our wireless network. During the second half of 2006, we anticipate expanding our 2.5G technology data services to include email and calendaring capability. In addition to tailoring our service plans based on features and minutes of use, we also offer our customers regional calling plans and national plans that allow our customers to pay home usage rates while traveling within specified regional zones, both within and outside of our cellular service areas. We have also established preferred roaming contracts and developed system integration with adjacent cellular carriers, which permit our customers to receive automatic call delivery, call forwarding, voicemail, and call hand-off nationwide. Roaming We have roaming agreements in our markets with various carriers. Under most of our roaming agreements, the roaming yield per minute we receive from outcollect calling minutes, in addition to the cost per minute we pay for our customers’ incollect activity, declines over time. We have structured our roaming agreements to enable us to provide expanded network access to our customers both regionally and nationally and provide roaming rates based upon factors such as network coverage, feature functionality, and number of customers. Under our agreements with Cingular and Verizon Wireless, we have been able to attain preferred roaming status by overlaying our existing Northeast, Northwest, and South networks with GSM/GPRS/EDGE and our Midwest territory with CDMA/2000/1XRTT technology. 7 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our roaming revenue has been derived from agreements with three national wireless providers, Cingular, T-Mobile, and Verizon Wireless. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, Cingular (on a pro forma basis giving effect to its 2004 merger with AT&T Wireless (“AWE”)), Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile accounted for approximately 92%, 86%, and 89%, respectively, of our total outcollect roaming minutes. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, Cingular (on a pro forma basis giving effect to its merger with AWE) accounted for approximately 11.9%, 9.9%, and 14.5%, of our total revenue. Our agreements with our three most significant roaming partners are as follows: • Cingular, which is effective through December 2009, • T-Mobile, which is effective through December 2007, and • Verizon, which is effective through December 2009. Customer Equipment We currently sell handsets manufactured by Audiovox Corporation, LG Electronics, Inc., Motorola, Inc., and Nokia Telecommunications, Inc. and accessories manufactured by a number of sources. Distribution and Sales We market our wireless products and services through direct sales distribution channels, which include Company-owned retail stores and account executives. We also utilize indirect sales distribution channels, including independent sales agents. All distribution channels are managed on a territorial basis. Our distribution channels include the following: • direct sales through: o retail stores and kiosks that we operate and staff with our employees. As of December 31, 2005, we had 89 stores, primarily located in our more densely populated markets. In addition, we had 9 stand-alone kiosks. Our retail locations help us establish our local presence and promote customer sales and service; o account executives who are our employees and focus on business and major account sales and service; o telesales, which are conducted by customer service representatives, internet, and toll-free phone services; and • indirect sales through approximately 350 independent sales agents. Our independent sales agents are established businesses in their communities and include retail electronics stores, farm implement dealers, automobile dealers, automotive parts suppliers, college and university bookstores, video and music stores, and local telephone companies. Most of the agents sell our services in conjunction with their principal business. We provide cellular equipment to the agents for sale to customers, and the agents market our services utilizing a cooperative advertising program. 8 Table of Contents Customer Base At December 31, 2005, our customer base consisted of three customer categories: postpaid, wholesale, and prepaid. Postpaid customers accounted for the largest portion of our customer base as of that date, at 85%. These customers pay a monthly access fee for a wireless service plan that generally includes a fixed number of minutes and certain service features. In addition to the monthly access fee, these customers are typically billed in arrears for long-distance charges, data usage, roaming charges, and minutes of use exceeding the rate plans. Our wholesale customers are similar to our postpaid customers in that they pay monthly fees to utilize our network and services; however, the customers are billed by a third party (reseller), who has effectively resold our service to the end user (customer). We in turn bill the third party for the monthly usage of the end user. Wholesale customers accounted for 13% of our total customer base as of December 31, 2005. Our prepaid customers accounted for 2% of our customer base as of December 31, 2005. Customer Service To provide consistent customer service in our service centers, we have implemented local monitoring and control systems and maintain customer service departments consisting of trained personnel who are aware of the needs of the customers in our local markets. Our customer service centers are located in Alexandria, Minnesota; Bangor, Maine; Enterprise, Alabama; and Bend, Oregon. Our customer service centers can be accessed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and are responsible for processing new service orders and service changes for existing customers and maintaining customer records. Service Marks In 2005, all of our territories used the UNICEL® brand, which we own. Network Operations We develop and build our wireless service areas in response to customer demand by adding channels to existing cell sites, building new cell sites to increase coverage and capacity, and upgrading entire networks with advanced technology and services. Where appropriate, we also upgrade acquired properties to enable us to provide similar quality service over our entire network. We expect to continue our wireless system expansion where necessary to add and retain customers, enhance customer usage on our systems, and increase roaming traffic. We also enhance our systems through scalable network equipment, cell site splitting, cell site sectorization, and digital upgrades of our systems. In addition to improving service quality, these enhancements generally provide improved network system performance and efficiency of operations. Our network consisted of 1,061 cell sites as of December 31, 2005. 9 Table of Contents Technology As of December 31, 2005, we had substantially completed our 2.5G network overlay. 2.5G refers to wireless technology and capability usually associated with General Packet Radio Services (“GPRS”), Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution (“EDGE”), and Code Division Multiple Access / 1x Radio Transmission Technology (“CDMA2000/1XRTT”). Technology Territory Deployment Description CDMA2000/1XRTT Midwest – deployed in 2003 and 2004 and commercially launched in August 2004. CDMA2000/1XRTT is an evolution of CDMA technology and represents a step towards 3G technology and allows data transmission at approximately 50 kilobits per second (“Kbps”). GSM/GPRS Northeast, Northwest and South — network deployment is operational and commercially launched throughout the first half of 2005. GSM/GPRS facilitates certain applications that have not previously been available over GSM networks due to the limitations in speed of Circuit Switched Data and message length of the Short Message Service. Dataspeeds of up to approximately 35 Kbps are expected. EDGE Northeast, Northwest, and South — substantially overlaid in the first half of 2005. EDGE is an evolution of GPRS technology and is a system designed to increase the speed of data transmission via cell phone, creating broadband capability. EDGE technology data speeds are expected to be approximately 70-135 Kbps. Commercial introduction of CDMA/2000/1XRTT services in our Midwest territory began in August 2004, and commercial introduction of GSM/GPRS/EDGE services began in our Northeast and Northwest territories in January 2005 and in our South territory in the summer of 2005. Our 2.5G technology networks utilize existing 850 MHz and 1900 MHz spectrum. At December 31, 2005, substantially all of our cell sites incorporated 2.5G technology. In addition to our 2.5G network overlay efforts throughout 2005, we expanded our coverage with the following initiatives: • Midwest territory CDMA network expansion into the adjacent markets of Hibbing and Virginia, Minnesota and Fargo and Grand Forks, North Dakota, • Northeast territory GSM network expansion into the adjacent market of Lewiston-Auburn, Maine, • Northeast territory GSM network expansion into the adjacent Lakes Area territory in east central New Hampshire, and • Northwest territory GSM network expansion into the adjacent markets of Lewiston-Moscow, Idaho and Madras, Oregon. We also have PCS networks in our Midwest and Northeast territories that satisfy FCC build-out requirements and allow us to receive outcollect revenue from our national roaming partners and minimize our incollect cost from our existing customers using their phones in those areas. We do not market our wireless service to residents of these areas. 10 Table of Contents Licenses Our reasons for building out our licenses can vary. We build out many of our licenses primarily to market our wireless services directly to that territory’s population and to capture outcollect roaming minutes. We build out other licenses to minimize incollect cost and capture outcollect roaming minutes while not marketing our services to that territory’s population. In some cases, we have chosen not to build out licensed areas, usually because of insufficient current financial incentive. Our total marketed service areas served 705,602 customers as of December 31, 2005. The following map illustrates the locations of our 850 MHz Cellular and 1.9 GHz PCS licenses as of December 31, 2005. Suppliers and Equipment Partners We do not manufacture any customer or network equipment. The high degree of compatibility among different manufacturers’ models of handsets and network facilities equipment allows us to design, supply, and operate our systems without being dependent upon a single source of equipment. Our legacy networks use equipment manufactured by Northern Telecom, Inc., Lucent Technologies Inc., Harris, Inc., Alcatel, Ericsson, Inc., and Motorola, Inc. Our 2.5G networks primarily utilize equipment manufactured by Ericsson, Inc. and Nokia Telecommunications, Inc. 11 Table of Contents Competition We compete against wireless carriers in each of our markets and also compete with a number of enhanced specialized mobile radio service providers. We compete for customers based on numerous factors, including wireless system coverage and quality, service value equation (minutes and features over price), local market presence, digital voice and features, customer service, distribution strength, and brand name recognition. Some competitors also market other services, such as landline local exchange and internet access service, with their wireless service offerings. Many of our competitors have been operating for a number of years, currently serve a substantial customer base, and have significantly greater financial, personnel, technical, marketing, sales, and distribution resources than we do. The following table lists our major competitors by territory: Sprint / US Region Alltel Cingular Nextel T-Mobile Cellular Verizon Other (*) Midwest X X X X Dobson Communications, Qwest Northeast X X X X X Northwest X X X X X Qwest, Inland Cellular, Snake River Wireless South X X X X X Southern Linc, Pine Belt Wireless, Public Service Telephone, Westlink Communications, Panhandle Telecommunications, Cellular Telepak, Inc. (*) National Third Party Resellers. We also compete with national third party resellers including Virgin Mobile USA, LLC. , and TracFone Wireless, Inc. These resellers purchase bulk wireless services from wireless providers and resell through mass-market retail outlets, including Wal-Mart, Target, Radio Shack, and Best Buy. TracFone purchases bulk wireless services from RCC in selected markets. Continuing industry consolidation has resulted in the increased presence of regional and national wireless operators within our service areas. More recently, some national wireless operators have begun to build small networks in more densely populated or well-traveled portions of our service areas. National advertising and promotional programs by national wireless operators run in our markets are a source of additional competitive and pricing pressures even though these operators may not provide service in those markets. In the future, we expect to face increased competition from entities holding licenses for PCS spectrum not yet operating in our markets. The FCC has issued licenses for both narrowband and broadband PCS, and six broadband licenses were issued in each of our cellular service areas. Under FCC rules, PCS license holders are allowed to disaggregate the spectrum covered by their license. Accordingly, we may face competition from additional providers of PCS if the FCC approves a disaggregation of spectrum for any PCS license in one of our service areas. In addition, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 required, among other things, the allocation to commercial use of a portion of 200 MHz of the spectrum currently reserved for government use. Some portion of this spectrum may be used to create new land-mobile services or to expand existing land-mobile services. Further, the FCC has auctioned or announced plans to auction licenses in the 39 GHz spectrum and 700 MHz spectrum that may be used for wireless communications that would compete with our services. We also compete to a lesser extent with resellers, landline telephone service providers, fixed wireless services, specialized mobile radio, private radio systems and satellite-based telecommunications systems. A reseller provides wireless services to customers but does not hold an FCC license and might not own facilities. Instead, the reseller buys blocks of wireless telephone numbers and capacity from a licensed carrier and resells service through its own distribution network to the public. Thus, a reseller is both a customer of a wireless licensee’s service and a competitor of that licensee. 12 Table of Contents Cable companies are providing telecommunications services to the home, and of these, some carriers are providing local and long distance voice services using Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP. In particular circumstances, these carriers may be able to avoid payment of access charges to local exchange carriers for the use of their networks on long distance calls. Cost savings for these carriers could result in lower prices to customers and increased competition for wireless services. The telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, as evidenced by the increasing pace of improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter cycles for new products and enhancements, and changes in consumer preferences and expectations. Accordingly, with the entry of new competitors and the development of new technologies, products, and services, competition in the wireless telecommunications industry has been dynamic and intense. Our ability to compete successfully is dependent, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry. Our marketing and sales organization monitors and analyzes competitive products and service offerings, changes in consumer preferences, changes in demographic trends and economic conditions, and pricing strategies by competitors that could adversely affect our operations or present strategic opportunities. We believe that we are strategically positioned to compete with other communications technologies that now exist. Continuing technological advances in telecommunications and FCC policies that encourage the development of new spectrum-based technologies make it difficult, however, to predict the extent of future competition. Legislation and Regulation The following summary of regulatory developments and legislation does not purport to describe all present and proposed federal, state, and local regulation and legislation affecting the telecommunications industry. Many existing federal, state, and local laws and regulations are currently the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings, and administrative proposals that could change, in varying degrees, the manner in which the telecommunications industry operates. Neither the outcome of these proceedings nor their impact upon the telecommunications industry or us can be predicted. Overview Our business is subject to varying degrees of federal, state, and local regulation. The FCC has jurisdiction over all facilities of, and services offered by, wireless licensees such as us, to the extent those facilities are used to provide, originate, or terminate interstate or international communications. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), preempts state and local regulation of the entry of, or the rates charged by, any provider of commercial mobile radio service (“CMRS”), which includes our cellular service and broadband personal communications service. Otherwise, state and local regulatory commissions may exercise jurisdiction over most of the same facilities and services to the extent they are used to originate or terminate intrastate or intra-Major Trading Area communications and with respect to zoning and similar matters. The manner in which we are regulated is subject to change in ways we cannot predict. 13 Table of Contents Federal Licensing of Wireless Systems Geographic Market Area Licenses. CMRS providers operate under licenses granted by the FCC within a specified geographic market area. For cellular systems, those market areas are typically Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSAs”) or Rural Service Areas (“RSAs”) as defined by the FCC. PCS systems are normally licensed within market areas known as Major Trading Areas (“MTAs”) or Basic Trading Areas (“BTAs”), although it is possible to obtain, and we currently hold, some PCS licenses that are for market areas smaller than an entire MTA or BTA, known as a partitioned area. While the FCC has used an assortment of methods in the past to grant licenses, most if not all new CMRS licenses granted by the FCC are by auction. The FCC determines the availability of licenses in particular frequency ranges, as well as the terms under which license auctions are conducted. Our ability to secure new licenses that could be used to introduce advanced “third generation” wireless services may depend upon our success in future FCC auctions. For example, in 2006 the FCC is expected to auction and license 90 megahertz of spectrum in six blocks for third generation and advanced wireless services. In the next several years the FCC is also expected to auction additional spectrum below 3 GHz and in the 700 MHz band. Construction and Operation. Most cellular licensees, including RCC, have substantially constructed their systems and have license rights in their Cellular Geographic Service Areas that cut off rights of others to obtain licenses on the same frequencies in the same areas. We do not need to perform additional construction under our cellular licenses to retain those licenses. If we were to discontinue operation of a cellular system for a period of at least 90 continuous days, our license for such area would be automatically forfeited. However, we have no intention of allowing any discontinuance of service that may occur to last as long as 90 continuous days. In order to retain licenses, PCS licensees, including RCC, are required by the FCC’s rules to construct facilities in the geographic areas authorized under their PCS licenses. That construction must result in a signal level adequate to permit an offering of services to a certain percentage of the population covered by those licenses within specified periods, based on the date of the grant of the licenses. Our PCS licenses are subject to revocation or nonrenewal by the FCC, as are all similar licenses held by other companies, if these build-out requirements are not satisfied in a timely manner. Build-out requirements apply as to certain PCS licenses we have acquired from other entities. We believe that our construction will progress at a pace that allows for timely compliance with the construction requirements. Because we hold PCS licenses, we must comply with FCC microwave relocation rules. A block of spectrum licensed for PCS may be encumbered by a previously licensed microwave system. In such a case, if the PCS licensee cannot avoid interference with the microwave system, the FCC requires the PCS licensee to provide six months’ advance notice that interference may occur upon simultaneous operation of the PCS and microwave facilities and direct the microwave licensee to cease operation or move to other, non-interfering frequencies after such period of time. A PCS licensee is also obligated to participate in cost-sharing if a previous relocation of a microwave incumbent benefits more than one PCS licensee. However, a PCS licensee will not trigger any new cost-sharing obligations for sites activated April 5, 2005 or later, due to the termination of the FCC’s cost-sharing plan as of April 4, 2005. We believe that we are in compliance with applicable FCC microwave relocation and cost-sharing rules. CMRS providers also must satisfy a variety of FCC requirements relating to technical and reporting matters, including coordination of proposed frequency usage with adjacent systems in order to avoid electrical interference between adjacent systems. The FCC also requires licensees to secure FCC consent to system modifications in specified instances. 14 Table of Contents Entities such as RCC that own towers used for radio systems are subject to Federal Aviation Administration and FCC regulations respecting the location, marking, lighting, and construction of towers and are subject to the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act, National Historic Preservation Act, and other environmental statutes enforced by the FCC. The FCC has also adopted guidelines and methods for evaluating human exposure to radio frequency emissions from radio equipment. We believe that all wireless devices we currently provide to our customers, and all our radio systems on towers that we own or occupy, comply with these requirements, guidelines, and methods. We use, among other facilities, common carrier point-to-point microwave facilities to connect cell sites and to link the cell sites to the main switching office. These facilities are separately licensed by the FCC and are subject to regulation as to technical parameters, frequency protection, and service. Renewal of Licenses. Near the conclusion of the generally ten-year term of a spectrum license, a licensee must file an application for renewal of the license to obtain authority to operate for up to an additional ten-year term. An application for license renewal may be denied if the FCC determines that the renewal would not serve the public interest, convenience, or necessity. The FCC also may revoke a license prior to the end of its term in extraordinary circumstances. In addition, at license renewal time, other parties may file competing applications for the authorization. The FCC has adopted specific standards stating renewal expectancy will be awarded to a spectrum licensee that has provided substantial service during its license term and has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. If the FCC awards the licensee a renewal expectancy, its license renewal application generally is granted and the competing applications are dismissed. Although we are unaware of any circumstances that would prevent the approval of any future renewal application, no assurance can be given that the FCC will renew any of our licenses. Moreover, the FCC has the authority to restrict the operation of a licensed facility or revoke or modify licenses. None of our licenses has ever been revoked or involuntarily modified. Assignment of Licenses or Transfer of Control of Licensees. FCC licenses generally may be transferred and assigned, subject to specified limitations prescribed by the Communications Act and the FCC. The FCC’s prior approval is required for the assignment or transfer of control of a license for a wireless system. Before we can complete a purchase or sale, we must file appropriate applications with the FCC, and the public is by law granted a period of time, typically 30 days or less, to oppose or comment on the proposed transaction. In addition, the FCC has established transfer disclosure requirements that require licensees who assign or transfer control of a license acquired through an auction within the first three years of their license terms to file associated sale contracts, option agreements, management agreements, or other documents disclosing the total consideration that the licensee would receive in return for the transfer or assignment of its license. In any instance where a proposed transaction would result in an entity holding attributable ownership interests in both the frequency Block A and frequency Block B cellular carriers in the same MSA or RSA, or where the acquiring entity would add to its own spectrum holdings in the same area, the FCC conducts a case-by-case analysis of the potential effect upon competition and may disapprove of the transaction or issue approval subject to conditions that may or may not be acceptable to the parties. Non-controlling minority interests in an entity that holds a FCC license generally may be bought or sold without FCC approval, subject to any applicable FCC notification requirements. Limitation on Foreign Ownership. Ownership of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens is subject to limitations under the Communications Act and FCC regulations. Under existing law, no more than 20% of a licensee’s capital stock may be directly owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives, or by a foreign corporation. If an FCC licensee is controlled by another entity, up to 25% of that entity’s capital stock may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives, or by a foreign corporation. Indirect foreign ownership above the 25% level may be allowed should the FCC find such higher levels not inconsistent with the public interest. 15 Table of Contents Regulatory Matters and Developments Enhanced 911 Services. 850 MHz and 1900 MHz licensees must comply with the FCC’s rules regarding emergency 911 service. There is a staged process for the required deployment of enhanced 911 services, referred to by the FCC as Phase I and Phase II. Under Phase I, cellular and PCS licensees were required as of April 1, 1998, or within six months of a request from the designated Public Safety Answering Point (“PSAP”), whichever is later, to be able to provide, if available to the serving carrier, the telephone number of the originator of a 911 call and to provide to the designated PSAP the location of the cell site or base station receiving a 911 call from any mobile handset accessing their systems through the use of Automatic Number Identification and Pseudo-Automatic Number Identification. We are in substantial compliance with Phase I requirements. Under Phase II, cellular and PCS licensees must be able to provide to the designated PSAP the location of all wireless 911 callers, by longitude and latitude, in conformance with particular accuracy requirements. To comply, licensees may elect either network-based or mobile radio handset-based location technologies and thereafter meet, according to a phased-in schedule, the enhanced 911 service standards stated in the FCC’s rules. We notified the FCC of our intention to utilize network-based location technologies to provide Phase II enhanced 911 service and amended the notification to indicate that, where we utilize CDMA network technology, we will rely upon a handset-based Phase II solution. Pursuant to terms and conditions of an FCC “Order to Stay” adopted in July 2002, granting us an extension of the compliance deadlines, we are subject to requirements of the FCC where we have deployed a network-based Phase II solution that we provide Phase II enhanced 911 service to at least 50% of a requesting PSAP’s coverage area or population beginning March 1, 2003, or within six months of a PSAP request, whichever is later, and to 100% of a requesting PSAP’s coverage area or population by March 1, 2004 or within 18 months of such a request, whichever is later. We have received requests from PSAPs for deployment of Phase II enhanced 911 service that relate to various areas where we provide cellular or PCS service and we have met the applicable 50%-coverage benchmark. Nevertheless, if the FCC finds that the accuracy results produced by any of our Phase II deployments are not in compliance with FCC rules, the FCC could issue enforcement orders and impose monetary forfeitures upon us. We have filed with the FCC a request for waiver of the applicable FCC rule concerning field test results in the State of Vermont which may not be compliant with FCC location accuracy requirements if averaged only with results from the State of Vermont. To the extent that we are not meeting the FCC’s E911 Phase II location accuracy requirements in Vermont and other states we may need to file one or more additional petitions with the FCC to request a waiver of those requirements. The FCC has issued notices of apparent liability requiring other CMRS providers to pay fines based upon violations of enhanced 911 service requirements. The implementation of enhanced 911 obligations may have a financial impact on us. We are not yet able to predict the extent of that impact. Interconnection. FCC rules provide that a local exchange carrier (“LEC”) must provide CMRS providers interconnection within a reasonable time after it is requested, unless such interconnection is not technically feasible or economically reasonable, and that CMRS providers are entitled to compensation from LECs for terminating wireline-to-wireless traffic that originates and terminates within the same MTA. The FCC has a rulemaking proceeding in progress to consider whether, and possibly how, to replace the current system of reciprocal compensation for termination of local telecommunications traffic, and access charges for inter-MTA traffic, with a uniform intercarrier compensation plan. That proceeding could result in changes to compensation arrangements we have with LECs and interexchange carriers for the exchange of telecommunications traffic. Additionally, although key provisions of FCC orders implementing the Communications Act’s interconnection requirements have been affirmed by the courts, certain court challenges to the FCC rules are pending. 16 Table of Contents Universal Service. The Communications Act mandates that telecommunications carriers, such as us, contribute to the federal USF, the purpose of which is to ensure that basic telephone services are available and affordable for all citizens and that consumers in rural areas have similar choices in telecommunications services as consumers living in urban areas. The USF is intended to promote telecommunications infrastructure development in high cost areas and to provide subsidies to low income persons, schools, libraries, and rural health care providers. We also are required to contribute to state universal service programs administered by some states. The federal USF is administered jointly by the FCC, the fund administrator, and state regulatory authorities. Because we are a collection agent for customer contributions, we expect that our obligation to remit USF contributions will have a minimal financial impact on us. 1996 amendments to the Communications Act allow wireless carriers such as us to pursue eligibility to receive USF funding for constructing, maintaining and improving our facilities and services in high-cost areas. When declared eligible for USF funding we are also obligated to offer discounts to low-income customers, which amounts are reimbursed to us through the federal Lifeline and Link-up programs. We must be designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier (“ETC”) by the state where we provide service (or, in some cases, the FCC) and the state (or, in some cases, we) must certify our eligibility to the FCC so that we may ultimately receive USF support. We have received ETC designation in the states of Alabama, Kansas, Maine, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Hampshire, Oregon, South Dakota, Vermont and Washington. We are currently receiving USF support, or expect soon to begin receiving USF support, in each of these states. To be eligible from year-to-year to receive USF support, our ETC certifications must be renewed each year. Our ability to receive USF support, and our obligations to pay into state and federal universal service funds, are subject to change based upon pending regulatory proceedings, court challenges, and marketplace conditions. The federal universal service program is under legislative, regulatory and industry scrutiny as a result of growth in the fund and structural changes within the telecommunications industry. The structural changes include an increase in the number of ETCs receiving support from the USF and a migration of customers from wireline service providers to providers using alternative technologies, like VoIP that, today, are not required to contribute to the universal service program. There are several FCC proceedings underway that are likely to change the way universal service programs are funded and the way these funds are disbursed to program recipients. The specific proceedings are discussed in greater detail below. On March 17, 2005, the FCC issued an order strengthening the conditions for telecommunications carriers to receive and maintain ETC designation. The new standards are mandatory when the FCC is responsible for evaluating ETC applications and recommended when state regulatory agencies are responsible for evaluating ETC applications. Effective October 1, 2006, the new standards require ETCs to: (1) provide a five-year plan demonstrating how support will be used to improve coverage, service quality or capacity, including annual progress reports; (2) demonstrate the network’s ability to remain functional in emergencies; (3) demonstrate how they will satisfy consumer and quality standards; (4) offer a “local-usage” plan comparable to the ILEC; and (5) acknowledge that they may be required to provide equal access to interexchange carriers in the event they become the sole ETC within a designated service area. The new standards are not expected to affect our universal service receipts. Further, additional certification requirements were imposed on ETC recipients. Some states have adopted, or are considering adopting, the same or similar requirements. The new FCC requirements are subject to both reconsideration requests pending at the FCC and judicial appeals. On June 14, 2005, the FCC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking initiating a broad inquiry into the management and administration of the universal service programs. The notice of proposed rulemaking seeks comment on ways to streamline the application process for federal support and whether and how to increase audits of fund contributors and fund recipients to deter waste and fraud. The FCC is also considering proposals regarding the contribution methodology, which could change the category of service providers that contribute to the fund and the basis upon which they contribute. At this time, we cannot estimate the impact that the potential changes, if any, would have on our operations. 17 Table of Contents Finally, the FCC mandated that, effective October 1, 2004, the Universal Service Administrative Company (“USAC”) begin accounting for the USF program in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for federal agencies, rather than the accounting rules that USAC formerly used. This change in accounting method subjected USAC to the Anti-Deficiency Act (the “ADA”), the effect of which could have caused delays in payments to USF program recipients and significantly increased the amount of USF regulatory fees charged to wireline and wireless consumers. In December 2004, Congress passed legislation to exempt USAC from the ADA for one year to allow for a more thorough review of the impact the ADA would have on the universal service program. In April 2005, the FCC tentatively concluded that the high-cost and low-income programs of the universal service fund comply with ADA requirements and has asked the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) to make a final determination on this issue. In November 2005 Congress extended the exemption for an additional year and is contemplating a permanent solution to alleviate the ADA issues and the related negative impact to the universal service program. Local Number Portability. The FCC has adopted rules on telephone number portability in an effort to achieve more efficient number utilization. Cellular and PCS licensees are required to provide number portability, which enables customers to change providers and services without changing their telephone number. By November 24, 2003, CMRS providers in the top 100 markets were required to offer number portability without impairment of quality, reliability, or convenience when customers switch wireless service providers, including the ability to support roaming throughout their networks. Providers in other markets were to comply by May 24, 2004 if they received a “bona fide request” to be open for porting-out of customer numbers at least six months prior from another wireless service provider. Where our operations are subject to the FCC mandate we are in compliance. In other areas any failure to comply with this obligation could result in a fine or revocation of our licenses. In addition, the FCC provided guidance to the wireline and wireless industries in the form of a decision released November 10, 2003 in response to a petition filed by the Cellular Telecommunications & Internet Association requesting that wireline carriers be required to allow their customers to retain their numbers when switching to a wireless carrier. The FCC concluded that, as of November 24, 2003, upon the request of a customer, wireline carriers in the top-100 markets must port numbers to wireless carriers where the wireless carrier’s “coverage area” overlaps the geographic location of the rate center in which the customer’s wireline number is provisioned, provided that the porting-in carrier maintains the number’s original rate center designation following the port. The wireless “coverage area” was defined by the FCC as the area in which wireless service can be received from the wireless carrier. Wireline carriers outside the top-100 markets were given until May 24, 2004 to comply with the same porting obligations. The FCC subsequently granted an extension of time until May 24, 2004 to wireline carriers in the top-100 markets that serve fewer than two percent of the nation’s customer lines if such wireline carriers had not received a request for local number porting from either a wireline carrier prior to May 24, 2003, or a wireless carrier that has a point of interconnection or numbering resources in the rate center where the customer’s wireline number is provisioned. In addition, state public utility commissions have authority under the Communications Act to suspend or extend FCC number portability requirements faced by wireline carriers that serve fewer than two percent of the nation’s customer lines. Several organizations representing wireline carriers petitioned the U.S. Court of Appeals, D.C. Circuit, for review of the FCC’s decision ordering wireline carriers to port numbers to wireless carriers. The court ordered the FCC to conduct a regulatory flexibility analysis concerning the effect of the number portability regulations upon small wireline carriers and, in the meantime, the court suspended the regulations to the extent they would apply to small wireline carriers. Meanwhile, the FCC invited and has received written comments on issues that bear upon wireless carriers’ obligations to port numbers to wireline carriers upon customer request. We expect to face obligations that will allow our customers to port their numbers to wireline carriers. 18 Table of Contents CALEA. Telecommunications carriers also are subject to the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”), which is administered by the Department of Justice, Federal Bureau of Investigation (“FBI”) and the FCC. CALEA requires carriers to have a specific number of open ports available for law enforcement personnel with the appropriate legal authority to perform wiretaps on each carrier’s network. Full implementation of CALEA’s assistance capability requirements was previously required by June 30, 2000. However, because the FCC found that there was a lack of equipment available to meet these requirements, it accepted petitions for a two-year extension of this deadline on a carrier-by-carrier basis. We submitted such a petition and were granted a two-year extension, until June 30, 2002, to comply with CALEA’s assistance capability requirements. We petitioned the FCC for another two-year extension and received from the FBI a letter of support for our petition for extension. We also petitioned for additional time, through September 30, 2005, to complete final installation of CALEA features on a switch located in Alexandria, Minnesota. We received from the FBI a letter of support for our petition for extension. At this time CALEA features are installed and operational at all but one of our switching facilities. Additional requirements have been adopted to require cellular and PCS licensees to accommodate interception of digital packet mode telecommunications. We will become obligated to comply with these requirements only if and when we commence to offer services that make use of digital packet mode technology. If we are not able to comply with CALEA prior to the applicable deadlines, we could be subject to substantial fines that, under existing law, could be as much as $10,000 per day. We cannot predict yet whether we will be able to comply with CALEA requirements prior to the applicable deadlines. Other FCC-Mandated Payments. We also are required to contribute annually to the Telecommunications Relay Service Fund and the North American Numbering Plan Administration Fund and to remit regulatory fees to the FCC with respect to our licenses and operations. We do not expect that these financial obligations will have a material impact on us. Access by the Disabled. The FCC has adopted rules that determine the obligations of telecommunications carriers to make their services accessible to individuals with disabilities. The rules require wireless and other providers to offer equipment and services that are accessible to and useable by persons with disabilities. While the rules exempt telecommunications carriers from meeting general disability access requirements if these results are not readily achievable, it is not clear how the FCC will construe this exemption. Accordingly, the FCC occasionally adopts rules that may require us to make material changes to our network, product line, or services at our expense. By the regulatory deadline of September 15, 2005, we had begun to offer hearing aid compatible CDMA and GSM handsets. By September 16, 2006, we must either suspend all of our offerings of TDMA handsets or begin to offer hearing aid compatible TDMA handsets, which may not exist or be available to us. By February 18, 2008, 50% of all phone models offered must meet the MT3 performance level for acoustic coupling to accommodate hearing aid compatible functions. We are required to file and we do file with the FCC periodic progress reports on our preparation for implementing these offerings. Health and Safety. Various media reports and plaintiffs’ attorneys in lawsuits not involving us have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to an assortment of health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with some electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. The FCC and foreign regulatory agencies have updated and may continue to update the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless handsets. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids, and medical devices. The FDA has issued guidelines for the use of wireless phones by pacemaker wearers. Safety concerns have also been raised with respect to the use of wireless handsets while driving. Federal, state, and local legislation has been proposed and, in some instances, enacted in response to these issues. Concerns over radio frequency emissions may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless handsets, and thus decrease demand for wireless products and services. 19 Table of Contents Regulatory Oversight. The rapid growth and penetration of wireless services has prompted the interest of the FCC, state legislatures, and state public utility commissions to oversee certain practices by the wireless industry, generally in the form of efforts to regulate service quality, customer billing, termination of service arrangements, advertising, filing of “informational” tariffs, certification of operation, and other matters such as deterrence of spam messaging to wireless devices. While the Communications Act generally preempts state and local governments from regulating the entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless carriers, a state has authority to regulate “other terms and conditions” of service offerings by CMRS providers and may petition the FCC to allow it to regulate the rates of CMRS providers. Several states have proposed or imposed consumer protection regulations on CMRS providers. Moreover, in securing ETC status, we may become subject to such rules (as we already are in Maine and Vermont), may be required to offer a specific “universal service” rate plan, as we have in Maine, or may become subject to other state-imposed requirements as a condition of their granting ETC status. In some states, we are or expect to be required annually to demonstrate that funds we collect from the high-cost fund are used for the required purpose of constructing, maintaining, or improving our facilities and services. These additional regulatory obligations can be expected to increase our costs of doing business. The FCC has rules that require CMRS providers to report to the FCC network outages of at least 30 minutes duration that potentially affect at least 900,000 user minutes. On August 4, 2004 the FCC adopted a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to consider how the Emergency Alert System (“EAS”) can become a more effective mechanism for warning the American public of an emergency. The proceeding inquires whether EAS should be extended beyond broadcast and cable TV to other services such as commercial wireless. We may be obligated to purchase additional hardware and/or software to comply with any EAS requirements the FCC ultimately adopts that are applicable to wireless carriers. At the local level, wireless facilities typically are subject to zoning and land use regulation and may be subject to fees for use of public rights of way. Although local and state governments cannot categorically prohibit the construction of wireless facilities in any community, or take actions that have the effect of prohibiting construction, securing state and local government approvals for new tower sites may become a more difficult and lengthy process. The FCC has expanded the flexibility of cellular, PCS, and other CMRS providers to provide fixed as well as mobile services. Such fixed services include, but need not be limited to, “wireless local loop” services to apartment and office buildings and wireless backup services to private business exchanges and local area networks to be used in the event of interruptions due to weather or other emergencies. The FCC has determined that fixed services provided as ancillary services to a carrier’s mobile service will be regulated as commercial mobile radio services. The FCC authorizes spectrum leasing for a variety of wireless services. Such rules may provide us with opportunities to expand our services into new areas, or provide us with access to additional spectrum, without need for us to purchase licenses, but the same rules also have the potential to induce new competitors to enter our markets. In addition, proceedings relating to human exposure to radio frequency emissions, the feasibility of making additional spectrum available for unlicensed devices, and the provision of spectrum-based services in rural areas are pending before the FCC. All of these initiatives could have an effect on the way we do business and the spectrum that is available to us and our competitors. 20 Table of Contents The FCC does not currently specify the rates CMRS carriers may charge for their services, nor does it require the filing of tariffs for wireless operations. However, the FCC has the authority to regulate the rates, terms, and conditions under which we provide service because CMRS carriers are statutorily considered to be common carriers and thus are required to charge just and reasonable rates and are not allowed to engage in unreasonable discrimination. The FCC has adopted rules and has proposed further rules relating to the use of customer proprietary network information (“CPNI”) and to require filing with the FCC of certification of carrier compliance with rules that concern CPNI. Additionally, the FCC has adopted rules governing billing practices. While none of these existing requirements has a material impact on our operations, there is no assurance that future regulatory changes will not materially impact us. The FCC has ruled that the Communications Act does not preempt state damages claims as a matter of law, but whether a specific damage award is prohibited would depend upon the facts of a particular case. This ruling may affect the number of class action suits brought against CMRS providers and the amount of damages awarded by courts. Employees and Sales Agents As of December 31, 2005, we had 1,011 employees, including 432 in sales and marketing, 276 in customer service, 187 in network and systems operations, 69 in administration, and 47 in finance and accounting. Approximately 23 of our employees were part-time. None of our employees is represented by a labor organization, and we believe we have excellent relations with our employees. In addition, we utilize approximately 350 independent sales agents. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We encourage you to read the risk factors below in connection with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our future operating results could fluctuate significantly. We believe that our future operating results and cash flows may fluctuate due to many factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include the following: • increased costs we may incur in connection with our networks and the further development, expansion, and upgrading of our wireless systems; • fluctuations in the demand for our services and equipment and wireless services in general; • increased competition, including price competition; • changes in our roaming revenue and expenses due to renegotiation of our roaming agreements and the development of neighboring or competing networks; • changes in the regulatory environment; • changes in the level of support provided by the Universal Service Fund (“USF”); • the cost and availability of equipment components; • seasonality of roaming revenue; • changes in travel trends; • acts of terrorism, political tensions, unforeseen health risks, unusual weather patterns, and other catastrophic occurrences that could affect travel and demand for our services; and • changes in general economic conditions that may affect, among other things, demand for our services and the creditworthiness of our customers. We incurred net losses applicable to common shares of approximately $71.3 million, $71.9 million, and $50.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. We may continue to incur significant net losses as we seek to increase our customer base in existing markets. We may not generate profits in the short-term or at all. If we fail to achieve profitability, that failure could have a negative effect on the market value of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Our implementation of 2.5G network technology has resulted in network capacity constraints and heightened customer churn. We have recently deployed 2.5G technology in all of our territories and have experienced and may continue to experience technical difficulties and network coverage issues. In addition, we have experienced network capacity constraints relating to the initial migration of our TDMA customers to 2.5G. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, costs to address these issues, including costs for engineering, additional equipment, and additional spectrum in certain markets. These costs may be significant. As our customers migrate from TDMA to 2.5G service, some have been dissatisfied with our service and switched to a competitor, resulting in increased churn and reduced revenues and profitability. Continuing problems could damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract new customers. In addition, network quality issues could affect our roaming arrangements. To the extent we are required to spend significant amounts on correcting problems with our network, we will have fewer resources available for marketing and customer acquisition activities, which would affect our customer growth. We may not be successful in reversing the six quarter trend of declining postpaid customers, which would force us to change our business plan and financial outlook and would likely negatively affect the price of our stock. Our current business plans assume that we will increase our customer base over time, providing us with increased economies of scale. If we are unable to attract and retain a growing customer base, we would be forced to change our current business plans and financial outlook and there would likely be a material negative affect on the price of our common stock. As we dedicate more resources to 2.5G technology, our TDMA customers may seek other competitive offerings, resulting in a loss of customers and reduced profitability. We expect to continue operating our TDMA network for the foreseeable future while current customers migrate to 2.5G technology. However, we will not upgrade our TDMA network with the same features as are available on our 2.5G networks, and we expect manufacturers will not produce innovative TDMA handsets with upgraded functions. As we dedicate more spectrum to 2.5G networks, our remaining TDMA customers may experience difficulties in using our services. Further, as our TDMA customers attempt to roam while traveling outside of our service areas, their service may be degraded due to the removal of TDMA capability within other carriers’ cell sites. All of these potential developments could drive our TDMA customers to our competitors rather than to our 2.5G product offerings and thereby reduce our market share and revenue. 22 Table of Contents We have required and will continue to require substantial amounts of capital to maintain our upgrade to 2.5G technologies and to meet various obligations under our financing arrangements. Our ability to generate the required capital depends on many factors, including some that are beyond our control. We have required, and will continue to require, substantial capital to maintain our wireless network, to satisfy obligations on our debt and exchangeable preferred stock, and for other operating needs. Including the cost of our 2.5G technology overlays, our total capital expenditures for 2005 were $95.0 million. We believe that we have sufficient funds to finance our planned capital expenditures for network construction, but we may require additional capital in the event of significant departures from our current business plan, unforeseen delays, cost overruns, unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes, engineering design changes, and other technological issues or if we acquire additional licenses. We will likely need additional financing to repay or refinance our debt at its final maturities and to meet mandatory redemption provisions on our preferred stock. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash from operations to satisfy these needs, we will need to explore other sources of capital, which may include public and private equity and debt financings, including vendor financing. The availability of additional financing is dependent on conditions in the capital markets. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us and within the limitations contained in the instruments governing our debt and our preferred stock or any future financing arrangements. If we fail to obtain any required financing, we may need to delay or abandon our development and expansion plans and we may fail to meet regulatory requirements for build-out of our network and not be in compliance with certain regulations, such as CALEA. Any failure to upgrade could also have a negative effect on our roaming revenues, since most of our roaming partners’ customers will likely use the latest technology handsets as our roaming partners upgrade their networks. Our ability to meet our debt service requirements and our customers’ needs may also be impaired, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We have committed a substantial amount of capital to upgrade our wireless networks to offer 2.5G data services. If the demand for wireless data services does not grow, or if we fail to capitalize on such demand, it could have an adverse effect on our growth. We have committed significant resources to wireless data services and our business plan assumes increasing demand for such services. Although demand for wireless data services is growing, it is currently a small portion of our revenues. Continued growth in demand for wireless data services is dependent on development and availability of popular applications and availability of handsets and other wireless devices with features, functionality, and pricing desired by customers. If applications and devices are not developed or do not become commercially acceptable, our revenues could be adversely affected. Even if such demand does develop, our ability to deploy and deliver wireless data services relies, in many instances, on new and unproven technology. Existing technology may not perform as expected, and we may not be able to obtain new technology to effectively and economically deliver these services. We cannot give assurance that there will be widespread demand for advanced wireless data services, that revenues from data services will constitute a significant portion of our total revenues in the near future, or that we can provide such services on a profitable basis. 23 Table of Contents Our business could be materially and adversely affected by our failure to anticipate and react to frequent and significant technological changes. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology that are evidenced by: • the introduction of 3.0G digital handsets and applications; • evolving industry standards; • the availability of new radio frequency spectrum allocations for wireless services; • ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology; • shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements; • developments in emerging wireless transmission technologies; and • changes in end-user requirements and preferences. It is possible that we may select a technology that does not achieve widespread commercial success or that is not compatible with the technology selected by one or more of our roaming partners, and as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, one or more of the technologies that we currently utilize may become inferior or obsolete at some time in the future. A significant portion of our revenue is from roaming charges. Outcollect roaming yields have been declining over the last few years and are expected to continue to decline in the future. As a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected if increases in roaming minutes do not offset anticipated decreases in roaming yield. In 2005, 2004, and 2003, approximately 23%, 21%, and 26%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from roaming charges incurred by other wireless providers for use of our network by their customers who traveled within our coverage areas. A substantial portion of our roaming revenue is derived from Cingular, Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile. Changes in their operations or a significant decline in the number of their customers could adversely affect our business. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, Cingular (on a pro forma basis giving effect to its 2004 merger with AT&T Wireless (“AWE”)), Verizon Wireless, and T-Mobile accounted for approximately 92%, 86%, and 89%, respectively, of our total outcollect roaming minutes. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, Cingular (on a pro forma basis giving effect to its 2004 merger with AWE) accounted for approximately 11.9%, 9.9%, and 14.5%, of our total revenue. Changes in the network footprints of these providers could have a material adverse effect on our outcollect revenue and incollect expenses. For example, if a roaming partner from which we derive a significant amount of revenue in one of our service areas were to build its own network in that service area, our outcollect revenue derived from our roaming relationship with that partner in that service area might decrease or even cease altogether, and our ability to negotiate favorable incollect rates in that partner’s other service areas could suffer as well. Any overbuild of our service areas by our roaming partners would also result in increased competition, which could have a negative impact on our outcollect roaming revenues, business, operating results, and retention. Our roaming agreements have varying terms, from month-to-month to up to five years, and some are terminable with 30 days’ written notice. When these agreements expire or are terminated, we may be unable to renegotiate these roaming agreements or to obtain roaming agreements with other wireless providers upon acceptable terms. Failure to obtain acceptable roaming agreements could lead to a substantial decline in our revenue and operating income. 24 Table of Contents Our roaming revenue is subject to some effects of seasonality, and as a result, our overall revenue and operating income are also subject to seasonal fluctuations. In 2005, 2004, and 2003, a substantial amount of our revenue was derived from roaming charges incurred by other wireless providers for use of our network by their customers who traveled within our service areas. Our service areas include a number of resort destinations. As a result, our roaming revenue increases during vacation periods, introducing a measure of seasonality to our revenue and operating income. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Other Matters — Seasonality.” We operate in a very competitive business environment, which can adversely affect our business and operations. Competitors who offer more services than we do may attract our targeted customers. We operate in highly competitive markets, and there is substantial and increasing competition in all aspects of the wireless communications business. Some competitors may market services we do not offer, such as cable television, internet access, landline local exchange, or long distance services, which may make their services more attractive to customers. Competition for customers is based primarily upon services and features offered, system coverage, technical quality of wireless systems, price, customer service, capacity, and strength of distribution channels. In each of our markets we compete with several other wireless licensees. To a lesser extent, we also compete with wireless internet, paging, dispatch services, resellers, and landline telephone service providers in some of our service areas. Increasingly, cellular services have become a viable alternative to landline voice services for certain customers, putting cellular licensees in direct competition with traditional landline telephone service providers. Cable and other companies are providing telecommunications services to the home, and of these, some carriers are providing local and long distance voice services using Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP. In particular circumstances, these carriers may be able to avoid payment of access charges to local exchange carriers for the use of their networks on long distance calls. Cost savings for these carriers could result in lower rates for customers and increased competition for wireless services. Continuing industry consolidation has resulted in the increased presence of regional and national wireless operators within some of our service areas. Many of these national operators provide services comparable to ours and, because they operate in a wider geographic area, are able to offer no or low cost roaming and toll calls over a wider area. In addition, some national wireless operators have recently begun to build networks in certain of the more densely populated or well-traveled portions of our service areas. National advertising and promotional programs by national wireless operators run in our markets are also a source of additional competitive and pricing pressures, even though these operators may not provide service in those markets. If the wireless communications industry continues to consolidate and we do not participate in that consolidation, even stronger competitors may be created. The FCC has eliminated the spectrum cap and the cellular cross-interest restriction in all markets. These regulatory actions may facilitate the creation of larger and more formidable competitors. Several of our competitors also operate in multiple segments of the industry. In the future, we expect to face increased competition from entities providing similar services using other communications technologies. Given the rapid advances in the wireless communications industry, it is possible that new technologies will evolve that will compete with our products and services. In addition, a number of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, and distribution resources. With so many companies targeting many of the same customers, we may not be able to successfully attract and retain customers and grow our customer base and revenues, which could have a materially adverse effect on our future business, strategy, operations, and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Market prices for wireless service may decline in the future. We expect significant price competition among wireless providers that may lead to increasing movement of customers between operators, resulting in reductions in average monthly service revenue per customer. While we will try to maintain or grow our customer base and average monthly service revenue per customer, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. A significant decline in the pricing of services could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Wireless number portability may continue to have a negative impact on our customer retention and increase our marketing costs. Wireless number portability allows customers to keep their wireless phone number when switching to a different service provider. Wireless number portability has increased and may continue to increase competition and reduce retention. Since implementation of wireless number portability in our markets, we have experienced increased churn. A high rate of churn would adversely affect our results of operations by reducing revenue and increasing the cost of adding new customers. Such costs generally include commission expense and/or significant handset discounts, which are significant factors in income and profitability. We may be required to grant promotional credits, subsidize product upgrades, and/or reduce pricing to match competitors’ initiatives and to retain customers, which could adversely impact our operating results. If we encounter significant problems, such as delays, inaccuracies, or loss of customer information from our database, in the process of upgrading our billing function, we could experience customer dissatisfaction and increased churn, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial performance. During the second half of 2005, we transferred our Northeast, Northwest and South territory GSM customers to the VeriSign data processing and billing system. This process has caused disruption in our billing cycles, including delays in mailing of and errors in statements sent to customers, and customers may be dropped from our database. In addition, the transition has caused additional customer service calls to be made to our call center. If such problems are significant or prolonged, our customers may become dissatisfied and decide to switch to a rival carrier. Also, we are dependent on future performance of an outside contractor. Any significant or prolonged problems with our billing function could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regulation or potential litigation relating to the use of wireless phones while driving could adversely affect our results of operations. Further, if wireless handsets are perceived to pose health and safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our services may decrease. Some studies have indicated that using wireless phones while driving may distract drivers’ attention, making accidents more likely. These concerns could lead to litigation relating to accidents, deaths, or serious bodily injuries, or to new restrictions or regulations on wireless phone use, any of which also could have material adverse effects on our results of operations. A number of U.S. states and local governments are considering or have recently enacted legislation that would restrict or prohibit the use of a wireless handset while driving or, alternatively, require the use of a hands-free telephone. Legislation of this sort, if enacted, would require wireless service providers to provide hands-free enhanced services, such as voice activated dialing and hands-free speaker phones and headsets. If we are unable to provide hands-free services and products to customers in a timely and adequate fashion, our ability to generate revenues could suffer. It has been suggested that certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Concerns over the effect of radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of wireless handsets, which would decrease demand for our services. 26 Table of Contents Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which could adversely affect our business by increasing our expenses. We also may be unable to obtain or retain regulatory approvals necessary to operate our business, which would negatively affect our results of operations. The FCC regulates many aspects of our business, including the licensing, construction, interconnection, operation, acquisition, and sale of our wireless systems, as well as the number of wireless licenses issued in each of our markets. State and local regulatory authorities, to a lesser extent, also regulate aspects of our business and services. In addition, the Federal Aviation Administration regulates aspects of construction, marking, and lighting of communications towers on which we place our wireless transmitters. Changes in legislation and regulations governing wireless activities, wireless carriers, and availability of USF support, our failure to comply with applicable regulations, or our loss of or failure to obtain any license or licensed area could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The FCC and state authorities are increasingly looking to the wireless industry to fund various initiatives, including federal and state universal service programs, telephone number administration, services to the hearing-impaired, and emergency 911 services. In addition, many states have imposed significant taxes on providers in the wireless industry and have adopted or are considering adoption of regulatory requirements regarding customer billing and other matters. These initiatives have imposed and will continue to impose increased costs on us and other wireless carriers and may otherwise adversely affect our business. Under Phase II of its emergency 911 service rules, for example, the FCC has mandated that wireless providers supply the geographic coordinates of a customer’s location, by means of network-based or handset-based technologies, to public safety dispatch agencies. We have received requests from PSAPs for deployment of Phase II enhanced 911 service that relate to various areas where we provide cellular or PCS service and we have met the applicable 50%-coverage benchmark. Nevertheless, if the FCC finds that the accuracy results produced by any of our Phase II deployments are not in compliance with FCC rules, the FCC could issue enforcement orders and impose monetary forfeitures upon us. We have filed with the FCC a request for waiver of the applicable FCC rule concerning field test results in the State of Vermont, which may not be compliant with FCC location accuracy requirements if averaged only with results from the State of Vermont. To the extent that we are not meeting the FCC’s E911 Phase II location accuracy requirements in Vermont and other states we may need to file one or more additional petitions with the FCC to request a waiver of those requirements. The FCC has issued notices of apparent liability requiring other CMRS providers to pay fines based upon violations of enhanced 911 service requirements. The implementation of enhanced 911 obligations may have a financial impact on us. We are not yet able to predict the extent of that impact. Each of our wireless licenses is subject to renewal upon expiration of its current term, which is generally ten years. Grants of wireless license renewals are governed by FCC rules establishing a presumption in favor of incumbent licensees that have complied with their regulatory obligations during the ten-year license period. However, we cannot provide assurance that the FCC will grant us any future renewal applications or that our applications will be free from challenge. In addition, FCC rules require wireless licensees to meet build-out requirements with respect to particular licenses, and failure to comply with these and other requirements in a given licensed area could result in revocation or nonrenewal of our license for that area or the imposition of fines by the FCC. 27 Table of Contents Our designation or certification as an Eligible Telecommunications Carrier (“ETC”) in any state where we conduct business could be refused, conditioned, or revoked due to circumstances beyond our control, thus depriving us of financial support in that state from the Universal Service Fund (“USF”). In addition, we cannot be certain that we will continue to receive payments at the current levels. In order to receive financial support from the USF in any state, we must receive ETC certification in that state. Currently, we are ETC certified in ten of the states in which we offer wireless services. If designation or certification in any of these states were revoked or conditioned, our financial results could be adversely affected. Further, there are several FCC proceedings underway that are likely to change the way universal service programs are funded and the ways these funds are disbursed to program recipients. At this time, it is not clear what impact changes in the rules, if any, will have on our continued eligibility to receive USF support. Loss of USF revenues could adversely affect our future financial performance. If we are unable to comply with obligations imposed by the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (‘‘CALEA’’), our financial results could be adversely affected. The Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (‘‘CALEA’’) requires us to make services accessible to law enforcement for surveillance purposes. Additional requirements have been adopted to require cellular and PCS licensees to accommodate interception of digital packet mode telecommunications. We will become obligated to comply with these requirements only if and when we commence to offer services that make use of digital packet mode technology. If we are not able to comply with CALEA prior to the applicable deadlines, we could be subject to substantial fines. We cannot predict yet whether we will be able to comply with CALEA requirements prior to the applicable deadlines. Equipment failure and natural disasters may adversely affect our operations. A major equipment failure or a natural disaster affecting any of our central switching offices, microwave links, or cell sites could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our inability to operate any portion of our wireless system for an extended time period could result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Difficulties in the continued upgrade of our wireless systems could increase our planned capital expenditures, delay the continued build-out of our networks, and negatively impact our roaming arrangements. Whenever we upgrade our networks, we need to: • select appropriate equipment vendors; • select and acquire appropriate sites for our transmission equipment, or cell sites; • purchase and install low-power transmitters, receivers, and control equipment, or base radio equipment; • build out any required physical infrastructure; • obtain interconnection services from local telephone service carriers; and • test cell sites. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to perform these necessary steps successfully may be hindered by, among other things, any failure to: • obtain necessary zoning and other regulatory approvals; • lease or obtain rights to sites for the location of our base radio equipment; • obtain any necessary capital; • acquire any additional necessary spectrum from third parties; and • commence and complete the construction of sites for our equipment in a timely and satisfactory manner. In addition, we may experience cost overruns and delays not within our control caused by acts of governmental entities, design changes, material and equipment shortages, delays in delivery, and catastrophic occurrences. Any failure to upgrade our wireless systems on a timely basis may affect our ability to provide the quality of service in our markets consistent with our current business plan, and any significant delays could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to meet upgrade milestones or to comply with other requirements under our roaming agreements could have an adverse effect on our roaming revenue. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS No. 142”). As a result, we are required to test both goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of our spectrum licenses, for impairment on an annual basis based upon a fair value approach, rather than amortizing them over time. We are also required to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value. Additionally, the value of our licenses must be tested between annual tests if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value might be impaired. The amount of any such annual or interim impairment charge could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets.” Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS No. 144”). As a result, we are required to assess the impairment of our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable as measured by the sum of the expected future undiscounted cash flows. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.” Any operating losses resulting from impairment charges under SFAS No. 142 or SFAS No. 144 could have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired or exchanged properties, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We seek to improve our networks and service areas through selective acquisitions of other providers’ properties and other assets, and in some instances, we may exchange our properties or assets for the properties and assets of another carrier. We will be required to integrate with our operations any properties we acquire, which may have billing systems, customer care systems, and other operational characteristics that differ significantly from those of our networks. We may be unsuccessful in those efforts, and customer retention in acquired properties and surrounding areas may suffer as a result, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOA”), as well as new rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and The Nasdaq Stock Market. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses. In addition, the SOA, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make certain activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, the new rules could make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees, or as executive officers. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our reputation and operating results would be harmed. We may in the future discover material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined under interim standards adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) and significant deficiencies and deficiencies in certain of our disclosure controls and procedures. Under the PCAOB standards, a “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A “significant deficiency” is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies that adversely affect a company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a more than remote likelihood that a misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. While we have taken steps to improve our internal and disclosure controls, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain effective controls or timely effect any necessary improvement of our internal and disclosure controls could harm operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could affect our ability to remain listed with The Nasdaq National Market. Ineffective internal and disclosure controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Our common stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. Litigation instituted against us and our officers and directors as a result of changes in the price of our securities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. The trading price of our Class A common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as: • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • our ability to finance our operations and meet obligations under our financing arrangements • conditions or trends in the wireless communications industry and changes in the economic performance and/or market valuation of other wireless communications companies; • our strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; and • additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our securities, regardless of our actual operating performance. Often a drop in a company’s stock price is followed by lawsuits against the company and its officers and directors alleging securities fraud. The defense and eventual settlement of or judgment rendered in any such actions could result in substantial costs. Also, the defense of any such actions could divert management’s attention and resources. Both the costs and the diversion of management could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, any material adverse judgment could trigger an event of default under our indebtedness. We have a significant amount of debt and preferred stock, which may limit our ability to meet our debt service and dividend obligations, obtain future financing, make capital expenditures in support of our business plan, react to a downturn in our business, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $1.8 billion of long-term liabilities (which includes $465.3 million of senior and junior exchangeable preferred stock), and approximately $171.0 million of Class M preferred stock, and shareholders’ deficit of approximately $652.0 million. Of the outstanding preferred stock, $514.3 million can be exchanged, at our option, subject to compliance with certain leverage ratios under our credit facility and the indentures related to our outstanding notes, for senior subordinated indebtedness. 30 Table of Contents The current levels of our debt and preferred stock entail a number of risks, including the following: • we must use a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make interest payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds that would otherwise be available to us for working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, and other purposes; • we may not be able to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, and other purposes on terms favorable to us or at all; • borrowings under our floating rate notes and our revolving credit facility are at variable interest rates, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • we may have more debt than many of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; • we may have limited flexibility to react to changes in our business; and • we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness or preferred stock on terms that are commercially reasonable or at all. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay the principal or liquidation preference of, and interest or preferred dividends on, our indebtedness and preferred stock is not certain. In particular, if we do not meet our anticipated revenue growth and operating expense targets, our future debt and preferred stock service obligations could exceed the amount of our available cash. The restrictive covenants in our existing debt and preferred stock instruments and agreements may limit our ability to operate our business. The instruments governing our debt and the certificates of designation governing our preferred stock impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional debt; • pay cash dividends on capital stock; • repay junior debt and preferred stock prior to stated maturities; • allow the imposition of dividend restrictions on certain subsidiaries; • sell assets; • make investments; • engage in transactions with shareholders and affiliates; • create liens; and • engage in some types of mergers or acquisitions. Our failure to comply with these restrictions could lead to a default under the terms of the relevant debt or a violation of the terms of the preferred stock even if we are able to meet debt service and dividend obligations. Our revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios if we draw against it. Substantially all our assets are subject to liens securing indebtedness under our revolving credit facility and senior secured notes. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a downturn in our business, or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. If there were an event of default under our revolving credit facility or other debt, the holders of the affected debt could elect to declare all of that debt to be due and payable, which, in turn, could cause all of our other debt to become due and payable. We might not have sufficient funds available, and we might be unable to obtain sufficient funds from alternative sources on terms favorable to us or at all. If the amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility were accelerated and we could not obtain sufficient funds to satisfy our obligations, our lenders could proceed against our assets and the stock and assets of our subsidiaries that guarantee our revolving credit facility and senior secured notes. 31 Table of Contents Our failure to pay the cash dividends on our senior exchangeable preferred stock may affect our ability to incur additional debt or refinance our existing indebtedness. We are required to pay dividends on our senior exchangeable preferred stock. Beginning in August 2003, we did not declare or pay cash dividends on our senior exchangeable preferred stock. Because, as of November 15, 2004, we had failed to pay six or more quarterly dividends, a “Voting Rights Triggering Event,” as defined in the certificate of designation for the senior exchangeable preferred stock, existed. While a Voting Rights Triggering Event exists certain terms of our senior exchangeable preferred stock, if enforceable, may prohibit incurrence of additional indebtedness, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility and the refinancing of existing indebtedness. On October 26, 2005, we paid four quarterly dividends on our outstanding senior exchangeable preferred stock. These quarterly dividends totaled $118.69 per share, including accrued interest. The aggregate total dividends of approximately $17.8 million were paid from existing cash. The payment of these dividends reduced the number of unpaid quarterly dividends to five and eliminated the then existing “Voting Rights Triggering Event” and any uncertainty regarding our ability to incur indebtedness, including under the revolving credit facility, allowing us to draw $58 million under the revolving credit facility and issue $175 million in new senior subordinated floating rate notes. Subsequent to the issuance of the new notes and borrowing under our credit facility, we elected not to pay cash dividends in November 2005 or February 2006 on our senior exchangeable preferred stock and a “Voting Rights Triggering Event” again exists. Management does not anticipate paying additional dividends in the foreseeable future. Our failure to pay the cash dividends on our junior exchangeable preferred stock may result in changes in our board of directors and affect our ability to incur additional debt. Since May 2005, we have not declared or paid cash dividends on our junior exchangeable preferred stock. If we do not pay any of the future dividends on our junior exchangeable preferred stock, a “Voting Rights Triggering Event,” as defined in the certificate of designation for the junior exchangeable preferred stock, will occur in August 2006. At that time, the holders of the junior exchangeable preferred stock will be entitled to elect the lesser of two directors or the number of directors equal to 25% of our board of directors. In addition, should a “Voting Rights Triggering Event” exist under the junior exchangeable preferred stock, our ability to incur indebtedness may be impaired. We have shareholders who could exercise significant influence on management. The holders of our Class M convertible preferred stock currently are able to elect two members to our board of directors and can vote, on an as-converted basis, approximately 2,181,241 shares of our Class A common stock, which represented, as of December 31, 2005, approximately 10.9% of the voting power of our common stock. Our Board of Directors also includes two directors elected by our senior exchangeable preferred stockholders. If any of these holders were to disagree with decisions made by management or the board of directors about our plans or operations, they might be able to bring significant pressure to change such plans or operations. The holders of our junior exchangeable preferred stock, under certain circumstances, may also be able to elect members of our board of directors in the future. Antitakeover provisions could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. Some of the provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws, and Minnesota law could delay or prevent a change of control or a change in management that may be beneficial to shareholders. These provisions include: • provisions for a classified board of directors; • provisions for advance notice for director nominations and shareholder proposals; • provisions allowing holders of our Class B common stock ten votes per share as compared to one vote per share for our Class A common stock; • provisions for supermajority votes to approve mergers or amend specified provisions of the Articles and Bylaws; and • statutory limits regarding share acquisitions and business combinations. We also have adopted a rights plan that could discourage, delay, or prevent someone from acquiring us at a premium price. The rights plan provides that preferred stock purchase rights attached to each share of our common stock become exercisable to purchase shares of common stock at 50% of market value, causing substantial dilution to a person or group acquiring 15% or more of our common stock if the acquisition is not approved by our board of directors. 32 Table of Contents In addition, the documents governing our indebtedness contain limitations on our ability to enter into a change of control transaction. Under these documents, the occurrence of a change of control transaction, in some cases after notice and grace periods, would constitute an event of default permitting acceleration of the indebtedness. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable 