Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our Class A Common Stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our Class A Common Stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our Class A Common Stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business The overall negative economic climate could adversely affect the liquidity and financial condition of our customers and our business. We believe that many factors affect our industry, including consumer confidence in the economy, interest rates, fuel prices and credit availability. The overall economic climate and changes in Gross National Product growth has a direct impact on our customers and the demand for our products. We cannot be sure that our business will not be adversely affected as a result of an industry or general economic downturn. Our customers may reduce capital expenditures and have difficulty satisfying liquidity needs because of the continued turbulence in the U.S. and global economies, resulting in reduced sales of our products and harming our financial condition and results of operations. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recessions in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. These conditions, combined with volatile oil prices, fluctuating business and consumer confidence and high unemployment, have contributed to market volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. This turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies has caused certain of our network subsystem and system customers, as well as their network service provider customers, to delay, reduce or cancel capital expenditures. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers, including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. We may be unable to obtain financing to fund ongoing operations and future growth. Our current cash balance of $3.2 million, potential future cash flows from operations, combined with our accessibility to cash and credit, may not be sufficient to allow us to finance ongoing operations or to make required investments for future growth. The recent disruption in credit markets and our recent operating losses make it uncertain whether we will be able to continue to access the credit or capital markets when necessary or desirable. If we are not able to access the credit or capital markets and obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms when needed, our business could be materially harmed and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 We have previously violated certain covenants under our loan agreements and may not be in compliance with future covenants under our new credit facility. At March 31, 2010, we were not in compliance with the financial covenants under our loan agreement with The PrivateBank and Trust Company (PrivateBank). This constituted an event of default under the terms of our loan agreement with Private Bank (the PrivateBank Loan Agreement) which gave PrivateBank the ability to provide us with notice that it is exercising its rights under the PrivateBank Loan Agreement to demand payment in full of the outstanding indebtedness under the PrivateBank Loan Agreement. On June 25, 2010, we entered into a second amendment to the PrivateBank Loan Agreement pursuant to which PrivateBank waived any event of default under the PrivateBank Loan Agreement resulting from the covenant violations for the fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2010, adjusted certain financial covenants, and required modification to certain terms of the promissory notes issued to Robin Risser, our COO, and Steve Williamson, our CTO, in connection with our acquisition of Picometrix, LLC (Picometrix) in 2005 (the Picometrix Notes). On August 27, 2010, we entered into a third amendment to the PrivateBank Loan Agreement pursuant to which PrivateBank waived any event of default under the PrivateBank Loan Agreement resulting from the our failure to modify the Picometrix Notes as required. On November 30, 2010, we entered into a fourth amendment to the PrivateBank Loan Agreement in which PrivateBank dropped any requirement to amend the Picometrix Notes. On September 23, 2011, we entered into a fifth amendment renewing the PrivateBank Loan Agreement and modifying certain covenants and terms. On January 31, 2012, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) (and such other documents which constitute the SVB Loan Agreement) and terminated the PrivateBank Loan Agreement. While we believe we have good relations with SVB, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments if future covenant violations occur under the SVB Loan Agreement. Failure to obtain such waivers or amendments, if necessary, could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, could negatively impact our results of operations. As of March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011, our consolidated balance sheet included $4.6 million in goodwill. Goodwill represents the excess purchase price over amounts assigned to tangible or identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed from our business acquisitions. Our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Any goodwill value in excess of fair value as determined in an impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets and aggregated to $4.5 million at March 31, 2012. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business which adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We are dependent upon several suppliers for a significant portion of raw materials used in the manufacturing of our products and any significant interruption could have a material adverse affect on our manufacturing. The principal raw materials we use in the manufacture of our semiconductor components and sensor assemblies are silicon and III-V wafers, chemicals and gases used in processing wafers, gold wire, lead frames, specialized semiconductor amplifiers, and a variety of packages and substrates, including metal, printed circuit board, flex circuits, ceramic and plastic packages. All of these raw materials can be obtained from several suppliers. However, we depend on suppliers whose components have been qualified into our products and who could disrupt our business if they stop, decrease or delay shipments or if the components they ship have quality or consistency issues. During the last several years, the number of suppliers of components has decreased significantly and, more recently, demand for components has increased rapidly. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of components we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. During our fiscal 2012, we continued to experience some limitations on the components available from certain of our suppliers, which reduced our revenue growth for the year. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act) contains provisions to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. As a result, the SEC is required to establish new annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use “conflict” minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. When these new requirements are implemented, they could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products at competitive prices and there may be additional costs associated with complying with the new due diligence procedures as required by the SEC. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. 13 We depend on a limited number of suppliers who could disrupt our business if they stopped, decreased, delayed or were unable to meet our demand for shipments of their products. Our suppliers, including our sole source suppliers, may experience manufacturing delays or shut downs due to circumstances beyond their control such as earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of materials or equipment we use to manufacture our products could materially adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. Lead times for the purchase of certain materials and equipment from suppliers have increased and in some cases have limited our ability to rapidly respond to increased demand, and may continue to do so in the future. These conditions have been exacerbated by suppliers, customers and companies reducing their inventory levels in response to the recent macroeconomic downturn. We are currently evaluating the capabilities of additional potential contract manufacturing partners to ensure we have a scalable and cost effective manufacturing strategy appropriate for executing our business objectives over a long-term horizon. To the extent we introduce additional contract manufacturing partners, introduce new products with new partners and/or move existing internal or external production lines to new partners, we could experience supply disruptions during the transition process. Customer acceptance of our products is dependent on our ability to meet changing requirements, and any decrease in acceptance could adversely affect our revenue. Customer acceptance of our products is significantly dependent on our ability to offer products that meet the changing requirements of our customers, including telecommunication, military, medical and industrial corporations, as well as government agencies. Any decrease in the level of customer acceptance of our products could have a material adverse affect on us. Our products must meet exacting specifications, and defects and failures may occur, which may cause customers to return or stop buying our products. Our customers generally establish demanding specifications for quality, performance and reliability that our products must meet. However, our products are highly complex and may contain defects and failures when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. Our products are also subject to rough environments as they are integrated into our customer products for use by the end customers. If defects and failures occur in our products, we could experience lost revenue, increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with customer support, delays in or cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, product returns or discounts, diversion of management resources or damage to our reputation and brand equity, and in some cases consequential damages, any of which would harm our operating results. In addition, delays in our ability to fill product orders as a result of quality control issues may negatively impact our relationship with our customers. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources, including any available insurance, to satisfy any asserted claims. If any of our products are found to have, or suspected to have, security vulnerabilities, then we could incur significant costs and damage to our reputation. If any of our products are found to have significant security vulnerabilities, then we may need to dedicate engineering and other resources to eliminate the vulnerabilities and to repair or replace products already sold or licensed to our customers. In addition, our customers and potential customers could perceive our products as unreliable, making it more difficult for us to sell our products. 14 Our inability to find new customers and retain existing customers could have a material adverse affect on our business. Customers normally purchase our products and incorporate them into products that they in turn sell in their own markets on an ongoing basis. As a result, our sales are dependent upon the success of our customers' products and our future performance is dependent upon our success in finding new customers and receiving new orders from existing customers. In several of our markets, quality and/or reliability of our products are a major concern for our customers, not only upon the initial manufacture of the product, but for the life of the product. Many of our products are used in remote locations for higher value assembly, making servicing of our products not feasible. Any failure of the quality and/or reliability of our products could have an adverse affect on our business. If our customers do not qualify our products or if their customers do not qualify their products, our results of operations may suffer. Most of our customers do not purchase our products prior to qualification of our products and satisfactory completion of factory audits and vendor evaluation. Our existing products, as well as each new product, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. In addition, because of the rapid technological changes in our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenues from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized custom design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty whether our customers will delay or terminate product qualification or the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, but any such delay, cancellation or modification could have a negative effect on our results of operations. If the end user customers that purchase systems from our customers fail to qualify or delay qualifications of any products sold by our customers that contain our products, our business could be harmed. The qualification and field testing of our customers’ systems by end user customers is long and unpredictable. This process is not under our control or our customers, and, as a result, timing of our sales is unpredictable. Any unanticipated delay in qualification of one of our customers’ products could result in the delay or cancellation of orders from our customers for products included in their equipment, which could harm our results of operations. Our sales to overseas markets expose us to additional, unpredictable risks which could have a material adverse affect on our business and to exposure under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. A portion of our sales are being derived from overseas markets. These international sales are primarily focused in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. These operations are subject to unpredictable risks that are inherent in operating in foreign countries and which could have a material adverse affect on our business, including the following: ● foreign countries could change regulations or impose currency restrictions and other restraints; ● changes in foreign currency exchange rates and hyperinflation or deflation in the foreign countries in which we operate; ● exchange controls; ● some countries impose burdensome tariffs and quotas; ● political changes and economic crises may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate; ● international conflict, including terrorist acts, could significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations; and ● economic downturns, political instability and war or civil disturbances may disrupt distribution logistics or limit sales in individual markets. In addition, we utilize third-party distributors to act as our representative for the geographic region that they have been assigned. Sales through distributors represent approximately 11% of total revenue. Significant terms and conditions of distributor agreements include FOB source, net 30 days payment terms, with no return or exchange rights, and no price protection. Since the product title transfers to the distributor at the time of shipment, the products are not considered inventory on consignment. Our success is dependent on these distributors finding new customers and receiving new orders from existing customers. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (FCPA) and other laws that prohibit improper payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our activities in our overseas markets create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors, because these parties are not always subject to our control. While it is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, certain governmental authorities may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. 15 Customer orders and forecasts are subject to cancellation or modification at any time which could result in higher manufacturing costs. Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products. However, by industry practice, orders may be canceled or modified at any time. When a customer cancels an order, they are responsible for all finished goods, all costs, direct and indirect, incurred by us, as well as a reasonable allowance for anticipated profits. No assurance can be given that we will receive these amounts after cancellation. Uncertainty in customer forecasts of their demands and other factors may lead to delays and disruptions in manufacturing, which could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. Flooding in Thailand in our December quarter resulted in dramatically reduced telecommunication revenues for us as our customers’ supply chains were and continue to be disrupted. There can be no assurance that further natural disasters will not affect our revenues. Fluctuations and changes in our customers’ demand are common in our industry. Such fluctuations, as well as quality control problems experienced in our manufacturing operations may cause us to experience delays and disruptions in our manufacturing process and overall operations and reduce our output capacity. As a result, product shipments could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers or could be cancelled, which would negatively affect our sales, operating income, strategic position at customers, market share and reputation. In addition, disruptions, delays or cancellations could cause inefficient production which in turn could result in higher manufacturing costs, lower yields and potential excess and obsolete inventory or manufacturing equipment. In the past, we have experienced such delays, disruptions and cancellations. The markets for many of our products are characterized by changing technology which could cause obsolescence of our products. The markets for many of our products are characterized by changing technology, new product introductions and product enhancements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction or enhancement of products embodying new technology or the emergence of new industry standards could render existing products obsolete or result in short product life cycles. Accordingly, our ability to compete is in part dependent on our ability to continually offer enhanced and improved products. We depend on key in-house manufacturing capabilities and a loss of these capabilities could have an adverse affect on our existing operations and new business growth. We depend on key in-house manufacturing equipment and assembly processes. We believe that these key manufacturing and assembly processes give us the flexibility and responsiveness to meet our customer delivery schedule and performance specification with a custom product. This value proposition is an important component of our offering to our customers. A loss of these capabilities could have an adverse affect on our existing operations and new business growth. Changes in the spending priorities of the federal government can materially adversely affect our business. In fiscal 2012, approximately 27% of our sales were related to products and services purchased by federal government contractors. Our business depends upon continued federal government expenditures on defense, intelligence, homeland security, aerospace and other programs that we support. In fiscal 2012, our sales to federal government contractors increased 9%. In addition, foreign military sales are affected by U.S. government regulations, regulations by the purchasing foreign government and political uncertainties in the U.S. and abroad. There can be no assurance that the federal government budget (including defense and military) will continue to grow or that sales of defense related items to foreign governments will continue at present levels. The terms of defense contracts with the U.S. government generally permit the government to terminate such contracts, with or without cause, at any time. Any unexpected termination of a significant U.S. government contract with a military contractor that we sell our products to could have a material adverse affect on us. 16 Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented, which can result in future competitors against which we cannot compete. We compete with a range of companies in our target markets, some of which have more financial and operational resources than we do. Because we specialize in custom high performance devices requiring a high degree of engineering expertise to meet the requirements of specific applications, we generally do not compete to any significant degree with other large United States, European or Pacific Rim high volume manufacturers of standard “off the shelf” optoelectronic components. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in our markets against these or any future competitors. Decreases in average selling prices of our products may reduce operating profit and net income, particularly if we are not able to reduce our expenses commensurately. The market for optical components and subsystems continues to be characterized by declining average selling prices resulting from factors such as increased price competition among optical component and subsystem manufacturers, excess capacity, the introduction of new products and increased unit volumes as manufacturers continue to deploy network and storage systems. Beginning in the fourth quarter of our fiscal 2012, we have observed a significant acceleration in the decline of average selling prices, primarily in the telecommunications market. We anticipate that average selling prices will continue to decrease in the future in response to product introductions by our competitors or us, or in response to other factors, including price pressures from significant customers. In order to sustain profitable operations, we must, therefore, reduce the cost of our current designs or continue to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that incorporate features that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our sales and operating profit to decline. Our cost reduction efforts may not keep pace with competitive pricing pressures. To remain competitive, we must continually reduce the cost of manufacturing our products through design and engineering changes. We may not be successful in redesigning our products or delivering our products to market in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that any redesign will result in sufficient cost reductions enabling us to reduce the price of our products to remain competitive or maintain our operating profit and net income. Shifts in our product mix may result in declines in operating income and net income. Our gross profit margins vary among our product platforms, and are generally highest on our Terahertz products. Our overall operating income has fluctuated from period to period as a result of shifts in product mix, the introduction of new products, decreases in average selling prices for older products and our ability to reduce product costs, and these fluctuations are expected to continue in the future. If our customers decide to buy more of our products with low gross profit margins and fewer of our products with high gross profit margins, our total gross profits could be adversely affected. Environmental regulations could increase operating costs and additional capital expenditures and delay or interrupt operations. The photonics industry, as well as the semiconductor industry in general, is subject to governmental regulations for the protection of the environment, including those relating to air and water quality, solid and hazardous waste handling, and the promotion of occupational safety. Various federal, state and local laws and regulations require that we maintain certain environmental permits. We believe that we have obtained all necessary environmental permits required to conduct our manufacturing processes. Changes in the aforementioned laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws, regulations or policies could require increases in operating costs and additional capital expenditures and could possibly entail delays or interruptions of operations. 17 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, the value of our products could be diminished. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and internal procedures, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We utilize proprietary design rules and processing steps in the development and fabrication of our PIN photodiodes, APD photodiodes and our THz systems and sensors. In addition, our products rely upon over 193 patents or patents pending. There can be no assurance that any issued patents will provide us with significant competitive advantages, or that challenges will not be instituted against the validity or enforceability of any patent utilized by us, or, if instituted, that such challenges will not be successful. The cost of litigation to uphold the validity and to prevent the infringement of a patent could be substantial and could have a material adverse affect on our operating results. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our PIN photodiodes, APD photodiodes and THz technology will not infringe on patents or rights owned by others, licenses to which might not be available to us. Based on limited patent searches, contacts with others knowledgeable in the field of PIN photodiodes, APD photodiodes and our THz technology, and a review of the published materials, we believe that our competitors hold no patents, licenses or other rights to the PIN photodiodes, APD photodiodes and our THz technology which would preclude us from pursuing our intended operations. In some cases, we may rely on trade secrets to protect our innovations. There can be no assurance that trade secrets will be established, that secrecy obligations will be honored or that others will not independently develop similar or superior technology. To the extent that consultants, key employees or other third parties apply technological information independently developed by them or by others to our projects, disputes might arise as to the proprietary rights to such information which may not be resolved in our favor. Pursuing infringers of our intellectual property rights can be costly. Pursuing infringers of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to pursue infringers could result in our competitors utilizing our technology and offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased sales. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Protecting our intellectual property is difficult especially after our employees or our third-party contractors end their employment or engagement. We may have employees leave us and go to work for competitors. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or prevent others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The resulting costs and diversion of resources could significantly harm our business. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights and we could be prevented from selling our products, or suffer significant litigation expense, even if these claims have no merit. Our competitive position is driven in part by our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Third parties, however, may claim that we, or our products, operations or any products or technology we obtain from other parties are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our assets, technology and products. In addition, from time to time we receive letters from third parties that allege we are infringing their intellectual property and asking us to license such intellectual property, and we review the merits of each letter. Any litigation regarding patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, even those without merit, could be costly and time consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. The complexity of the technology involved and inherent uncertainty and cost of intellectual property litigation increases our risks. If any third-party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or manufacturing processes or enter into licensing arrangement with third parties, which may be costly or impractical, particularly in the event we are subject to a contractual commitment to continue supplying impacted products to our customers. This also may require us to stop selling our products as currently engineered, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development and sale of certain of our products or services and may result in a material decrease in sales. 18 We face strong competition for skilled workers which could result in our inability to attract and retain necessary personnel. Our success depends in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical, management, and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development and operation of our business. We may not be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions, which could result in our not achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, the disruption of our business and an increase in our costs. Our ability to continue to grow may depend upon identifying and successfully acquiring attractive companies, effectively integrating these companies, achieving cost efficiencies and managing these businesses as part of our company. We may not be able to effectively integrate the acquired companies and successfully implement appropriate operational, financial and management systems and controls to achieve the benefits expected to result from these acquisitions. Our efforts to integrate these businesses could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as regulatory developments, general economic conditions and increased competition. In addition, the process of integrating these businesses could cause the interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our existing business. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of these businesses could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Further, the benefits that we anticipate from these acquisitions may not develop. Future acquisitions could require us to issue additional indebtedness or equity. If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through bank borrowings or the issuance of public or private debt. This acquisition financing would likely increase our ratio of debt to equity and adversely affect other leverage criteria. Under our existing SVB Loan Agreement, we are required to obtain SVB’s consent prior to incurring additional indebtedness. We are also restricted from paying cash dividends on our capital stock. We cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to undertake an acquisition for equity, the acquisition may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our Common Stock. We may be liable for damages based on product liability claims brought against our customers in our end-use markets. Many of our products may provide critical performance attributes to our customers’ products that will be sold to end users who could potentially bring product liability suits in which we could be named as a defendant. The sale of these products involves the risk of product liability claims. If a person were to bring a product liability suit against one of our customers, this customer may attempt to seek contribution from us. A person may also bring a product liability claim directly against us. A successful product liability claim or series of claims against us in excess of our insurance coverage for payments, for which we are not otherwise indemnified, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have acquired product liability coverage of up to $2 million. Our current and planned systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. The laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules adopted or proposed by the SEC, will result in increased costs to us as we evaluate the implications of any new rules and respond to their requirements. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to comply with regulatory requirements, including our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, and obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with any new rules and regulations, or if compliance can be achieved. 19 We have incurred significant losses in prior periods and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred significant losses in prior periods. We recorded a net loss of $2.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2012 and ended the period with an accumulated deficit of $39.8 million. In addition, we recorded net losses of $1.9 million and $3.7 million for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 respectively. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient revenue growth to offset expenses or to achieve profitability in future periods. We may dispose of or discontinue existing product lines and technology developments, which may adversely impact our future results. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our various product offerings and technology developments in order to determine whether any should be discontinued or, to the extent possible, divested. We cannot guarantee that we have correctly forecasted, or will correctly forecast in the future, the right product lines and technology developments to dispose or discontinue or that our decision to dispose of or discontinue various investments, products lines and technology developments is prudent if market conditions change. In addition, there are no assurances that the discontinuance of various product lines will reduce our operating expenses or will not cause us to incur material charges associated with such decision. Furthermore, the discontinuance of existing product lines entails various risks, including the risk that we will not be able to find a purchaser for a product line or the purchase price obtained will not be equal to at least the book value of the net assets for the product line. Other risks include managing the expectations of, and maintaining good relations with, our customers who previously purchased products from our disposed or discontinued product lines, which could prevent us from selling other products to them in the future. We may also incur other significant liabilities and costs associated with our disposal or discontinuance of product lines, including employee severance costs and excess facilities costs. We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure. We rely to a large extent on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of these systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion, and random attack. Likewise, confidentiality or data privacy breaches by employees or others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that trade secrets, personal information, or other sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Stock Our share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. Our Class A Common Stock has experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: ● quarterly variations in our operating results; ● operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; ● changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; ● announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; ● announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● future sales of our Class A Common Stock or securities exercisable or convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock; ● stock market price and volume fluctuations; and ● general economic conditions. 20 Stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding the United States, could adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources both of which could have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Future sales of our Class A Common Stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and conversion of our warrants and any additional capital raised by us may dilute your ownership. We may sell additional shares of Class A Common Stock in the future. In addition, holders of warrants or stock options may exercise their warrants or stock options to purchase shares of our Class A Common Stock. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A Common Stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A Common Stock will have on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock, including shares issued in connection with the exercise of the warrants or stock options, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Class A Common Stock. Shares eligible for public sale in the future could decrease the price of our Class A Common Stock and reduce our future ability to raise capital. Future sales of substantial amounts of our Class A Common Stock in the public market could decrease the prevailing market price of our Class A Common Stock, which would have an adverse affect on our ability to raise equity capital in the future. We do not intend to pay dividends and are precluded from doing so while our SVB Loan Agreement is outstanding. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our Class A Common Stock and we are currently precluded from doing so while the SVB Loan Agreement with SVB is outstanding. Even in the event the SVB Loan Agreement is terminated, we currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance operations and expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us, which could decrease the value of our stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting and conversion rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of our preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could also have the effect of delaying or preventing our acquisition by a third party. Further, certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and bylaws could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In September 2002, we adopted a rights agreement, which was amended and restated on February 4, 2005, pursuant to which we distributed one preferred stock purchase right as a dividend on each outstanding share of our Common Stock. Each right entitles the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of our Series B Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share, at a purchase price of $5.00 per one one-hundredth of a preferred share, subject to adjustment to reflect stock splits, stock dividends or similar transactions. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock, without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding such acquisition. Our rights plan will expire in September 2012. 21 