ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS. FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS Other than the factual matters set forth herein, the matters and items set forth in this report are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company's actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events and/or to the Company's future financial performance and include, but are not limited to, statements concerning: The anticipated benefits and risks of the Company's key strategic partnerships, business relationships and acquisitions; The Company's ability to attract and retain customers; Concentration of customers; The anticipated benefits and risks associated with the Company's business strategy, including those relating to its distribution and fulfillment strategy and its current and future product and service offerings; Company proprietary and other distributed product brand recognition; Protection of Company's intellectual property and trade secrets; The Company's future operating results, its need for and availability of financing to sustain its operations and expand thereon; and the future value of its common stock; The anticipated size or and trends in the market segments in which the Company competes and the anticipated competition in those markets; Production and Inventory concerns; Potential government regulation; Interruption of production facilities operations; The Company's future capital requirements and its ability to satisfy its capital needs; Risk associated with cost increases in materials, ingredients, energy, and employee wages and benefits; Ability to obtain and maintain adequate terms with vendors and service providers; Risks associated with product price increases, including the risk that such actions will not effectively offset inflationary costs pressures and may adversely impact sales of products; The effectiveness of efforts to hedge exposure to price increases with respect to various ingredients and energy; Ability to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives and employees; Successful implementation of information technology improvements; The continuing effect of changes in consumers' eating habits and dietary guidelines 12 Furthermore, in some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, could, should, expect, plan, intend, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue, the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. Actual events or results may differ materially. Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein and other risks included from time to time in the Company's other Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") reports and press releases, copies of which are available from the Company upon request. o The availability of capital on acceptable terms in light of the various factors discussed herein,; o The availability and cost of raw materials, packaging, fuels, and utilities, and the ability to recover these costs in the pricing of products, improved efficiencies and other strategies; o Actions of competitors, including pricing policies and promotional spending; o The effectiveness of advertising and marketing spending; o The effectiveness and adequacy of information and data processing systems; o Changes in general economic and business conditions; o Any inability to protect and maintain the value of intellectual property; o Changes in consumer tastes or eating habits; o Costs associated with environmental compliance and remediation; o Actions of governmental entities, including regulatory requirements; o Acceptance of new product offerings by consumers and our ability to expand existing brands; o Expenditures necessary to carry out cost-saving initiatives and savings derived from these initiatives; o Changes in our business strategies; o Business disruption from terrorist acts, our nation's response to such acts and acts of war; o Changes in general economic or business conditions nationally and in the Company's primary markets; o The availability of capital upon terms acceptable to the Company; o The availability and pricing or raw materials; o The level of demand for the Company's products; o The outcome of legal proceedings to which the Company is or may become a party; o The actions of competitors within the industry wherein the Company operates; o The success of business strategies implemented by the Company to meet future challenges; o The costs to upgrade and enhance existing facilities; o The costs to acquire (or lease) fit-out new facilities and relocate thereto; 13 o The costs and availability of capital to fund improvements or new facilities; o The retention of key employees; o The ability to develop and market in a timely and efficient manner new products which are accepted by consumers; and o Other factors. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements and continued availability of logistics and financial support therefore. Moreover the Company assumes no responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements to conform such statements to actual results or to changes in its expectations. If any of the Company's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, its actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors, including, but not limited to, those stated herein. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider these factors when evaluating any such forward-looking statements. These statements speak only as of the date of this report, and the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, future events or developments or otherwise, except as required by law. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company and persons acting on its behalf are qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained in this section and elsewhere in this report. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the Company business because these factors may have a significant impact on the Company's business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and the risks discussed in the Company's other SEC filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. 1. THE COMPANY HAS INCURRED OPERATING LOSSES, HAS MATERIAL DEBT, AND HAS BEEN AND IS RELIANT UPON FINANCING TO EXTEND CREDIT TO ITS CUSTOMERS. The Company has a long history of operating losses. To date, a large portion of the Company's expenses have been financed through capital raising activities. A large portion of the Company's historical losses are a direct result of fees and expenses associated with stock and/or other working capital financing. The Company believes that Financing costs must be reduced in order to improve operating results. Failure to reduce financing costs will likely inhibit the Company's growth. There is no assurance that further financing will not be needed for operating purposes, and where needed there can be no assurances of continued availability of financing at affordable levels of expense. The Company has made strides in the last several years to become less reliant on capital raising efforts, substituting debt financing at advantageous interest rate levels, thereby utilizing to a much greater extent working capital generated from increasingly positive business operations. 14 As of December 31, 2007, the Company had long-term indebtedness of approximately $12,000,000. Although the Company made debt principal reduction payments over the last several years, it may incur substantial additional debt in the future, and in any event a significant portion of the Company's future cash flow from operating activities is likely to remain dedicated to the payment of interest and the repayment of principal on its indebtedness. The Company's indebtedness could limit its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the future, as needed; to plan for, or react to, changes in technology and in its business and competition; and to react in the event of an economic downturn. There is no guarantee that the Company will be able to meet its debt service obligations. If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or it we fail to comply with covenants in its indebtedness, the Company will be in default. In addition, the Company may not be able to refinance its indebtedness on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. Due to the Company's historical losses, its evolving business model, and the unpredictability of its industries, the Company may not be able to accurately forecast its rate of continued growth. The Company bases its current and future expense levels and its investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of growth. Its expenses and investments are to a large extent fixed, and the Company may not be able to adjust its spending quickly enough if its net sales fall short of its expectations. The Company's revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products offered by the Company or its sellers, and its business is affected by general economic and business conditions throughout the world. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect its revenue or growth. Such events could create delays in, and increase the cost of, product shipments, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not be sustainable and its company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease in the future. The Company's net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including: - its ability to expand its network of purchasers and suppliers, and to enter into, maintain, renew, and amend on favorable terms its commercial agreements and strategic alliances; - its ability to acquire merchandise, manage inventory, and fulfill orders; - the introduction by the Company's current or future competitors of websites, products, services, price decreases, or improvements; - changes in usage of the Internet and e-commerce, including in non-U.S. markets; - timing, effectiveness, and costs of upgrades and developments in the Company's systems and infrastructure; - the effects of commercial agreements and strategic alliances and the Company's ability to successfully implement the underlying relationships and integrate them into its business; - the effects of acquisitions, and other business combinations and the Company's ability to successfully integrate them into its business; - the success of the Company's geographic and product line expansions; - technical difficulties, system downtime, or interruptions; - Variations in the mix of products and services the Company sells; 15 - Variations in the Company's level of merchandise and vendor returns; - disruptions in service by shipping carriers; - the extent to which the Company offers and provides additional benefits to its customers which reduce its gross or operating profits; - the extent the Company invests in technology and content, fulfillment, marketing and other expense categories; - the extent to which the Company provides for and pays taxes; and - an increase in the prices of fuel and gasoline, which are used in the transportation of packages, as well as an increase in the prices of other energy products, primarily natural gas and electricity, and commodities like paper and packing supplies, as well as raw materials used in preparatory product manufacture, all of which are used in the Company's operating facilities. 2. DEPENDENCE ON PUBLIC TRENDS. The Company's business is subject to the effects of changing customer preferences and the economy, both of which are difficult to predict and over which the Company has no control. A change in either consumer preferences or a down-turn in the economy may affect the Company's business prospects. 3. POTENTIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY. As a participant in the distribution chain between the manufacturer and consumer, the Company would likely be named as a defendant in any product liability action brought by a consumer. To date, no claims have been asserted against the Company for product liability. There can be no assurance, however, that such claims will not arise in the future. Currently, the Company does carry product liability insurance. In the event that any products liability claim is not fully funded by insurance, and if the Company is unable to recover damages from the manufacturer or supplier of the product that caused such injury, the Company may be required to pay some or all of such claims from its own funds. Any such payment could have a material adverse impact on the Company. 16 4. RELIANCE ON COMMON CARRIERS. Although the Company has in the last few years leased a fleet of trucks operated by the Company to make deliveries, the Company is still dependent, for shipping of product purchased, on common carriers in the trucking industry. Although the Company uses several hundred common carriers, the trucking industry is subject to strikes from time to time, which could have material adverse effect on the Company's operations if alternative modes of shipping are not then available. Additionally the trucking industry is susceptible to various natural disasters which can close transportation lanes in any given region of the country. To the extent common carriers are prevented from or delayed in utilizing local transportation lanes or otherwise trucking services are curtailed because of any other case, the Company will likely incur higher freight costs due to the limited availability of trucks during any such period that transportation lanes are restricted. 5. COMPETITION. The Company is subject to competition in all of its various product sale businesses. While these industries may be highly fragmented, with no one distributor dominating the industry, the Company is subject to competitive pressures from other distributors based on price and service and product quality and origin which reduces the gross profit and may increase inventory risk. The food industry is sensitive to a number of economic conditions such as: (i) food price deflation or inflation, (ii) softness in local and national economies, (iii) increases in commodity prices, (iv) the availability of favorable credit and trade terms, and (v) other economic conditions that may affect consumer buying habits. Any one or more of these economic conditions can affect the demand for products PHS distributes to its customers. The industries in which PHS competes in are extremely competitive. Both the wholesale grocery operation and supply chain services to businesses are subject to competitive practices that may affect: (i) the prices at which PHS is able to sell products to its service area, (ii) sales volume, (iii) the ability of our traditional food distribution customers to sell products PHS supplies, which may affect future orders, and (iv) ability to attract and retain customers. In addition, the nature and extent of consolidation in the food and traditional food distribution industries could affect the competitive position. PHS competes with larger distributors and retailers that have greater resources then the Company. The U.S. market for e-commerce services is extremely competitive. The Company expects competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and enter the e-commerce market, and new competitors enter the market. 17 The principal competitive factors are the quality and breadth of services provided, potential for successful transaction activity and price. E-commerce markets are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and frequent new product and service introductions. The Company may fail to update or introduce new market pricing formats, selling techniques and/or other mechanics and administrative tools and formats for internet sales consistent with current technology on a timely basis or at all. If its fails to introduce new service offerings or to improve its existing service offerings in response to industry developments, or if its prices are not competitive, the Company could lose customers, which could lead to a loss of revenues. Because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the e-commerce market, competition from other established and emerging companies may develop in the future. Many of the Company's competitors may also have well-established relationships with the Company's existing and prospective customers. Increased competition is likely to result in fee reductions, reduced margins, longer sales cycles for the Company's services and a decrease or loss of its market share, any of which could harm its business, operating results or financial condition. Many of the Company's competitors have, and new potential competitors may have, more experience developing Internet-based software applications and integrated purchasing solutions, larger technical staffs, larger customer bases, more established distribution channels, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources than the Company has. In addition, competitors may be able to develop products and services that are superior to those of the Company or that achieve greater customer acceptance. There can be no assurance that the e-commerce solutions offered by the Company's competitors now or in the future will not be perceived as superior to those of the Company by either businesses or consumers. The principal raw materials used in the Company's baking mix and other lesser directly manufactured food items operations, including flour, sugar, spices and edible oils, and the paper, films and plastics used to package its products, are subject to substantial price fluctuations, and some raw materials are at historically high prices. The prices for raw materials are influenced by a number of factors, including the weather, crop production, transportation and processing costs, government regulation and policies, worldwide market supply and demand an alternative demand for raw materials, such as the recent demand for corn for use in the production of ethanol. Commodity prices have historically been volatile and may continue to be volatile. Any substantial increase in the prices of raw materials may adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company relies on utilities to operate its business; its manufacturing plants and other facilities use natural gas, propane and electricity to operate. In addition, its distribution operations use gasoline and diesel fuel to deliver its products. For these reasons, substantial future increases in prices for, or shortages of, these fuels or electricity could adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 6. FURTHER CONSOLIDATION IN THE RETAIL FOOD INDUSTRY MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT PROFITABILITY As supermarket chains and grocery product manufacturers continue to consolidate and as mass merchants gain scale, the Company's larger customers may seek more favorable terms for their purchase of the Company's products, including increased spending on promotional programs, and availability of product for distribution may lessen if the Company has not established good business relationships with all participants in the consolidated ventures. 7. LITIGATION The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of its business. In the opinion of management, the amount of ultimate liability with respect to these actions should not materially affect the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company, but there can be no assurance as to this. 18 8. POSSIBLE LOSS OF NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET LISTING. Synergy's qualification for trading on the NASDAQ system is presently and has in the past been questioned, the focus being on the market quotes for the Company's stock, the current bid price presently being and having for a time in the past been reduced below the applicable minimum NASDAQ standard of $1 and having been below such level for an appreciable period of time, as well as the Company also being notified in the past that stockholders' equity had fallen below minimum applicable NASDAQ continued listing standard of $2,500,000. NASDAQ has established, and the Commission has approved, certain maintenance requirements to which the Company must adhere to remain listed, including the requirement that a stock listed in such market have a bid price greater than or equal to $1.00 and the listed Company maintain stockholders equity above $2,500,000. The bid price per share for the Common Stock of Synergy had been below $1.00 in the past and the Common Stock has remained on the NASDAQ Capital Market System because Synergy had complied with alternative criteria which are now eliminated under the new and revised NASDAQ rules. If the bid price dips below $1.00 per share, and is not brought above such level for a sustained period of time or the Company fails to maintain stockholders' equity at a level of at least $2,500,000 the Common Stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ System and thereafter trading would likely be reported in the NASDAQ's OTC Bulletin Board or in the "pink sheets." The Company is presently and has in the recent past been under warning from NASDAQ to better conform by evidencing and maintaining a bid price at or better than $1 or chance being delisted. (see Item 5-"Market For The Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters" supra for a more in depth discussion of the Company's current NASDAQ listing status)In the event of delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market System, the Common Stock would become subject to the rules adopted by the Commission regulating broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks", including what the Company believes to be stringent disclosure rules very different from NASDAQ trading practice procedures. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. If the Common Stock became subject to the penny stock rules, many broker-dealers might be unwilling to engage in transactions in the Company's securities because of the added disclosure requirements, thereby making it more difficult for purchasers of the Common Stock to dispose of their shares. The Company's common stock has historically remained at NASDAQ trading levels above $1 except for limited periods of time. The Company is hopeful of experiencing and maintaining its bid price in conformity with applicable NASDAQ listing standards as instructed by NASDAQ administration. The Company has also achieved and is confident of maintaining a level of Stockholders' equity above $2,500,000. Historical stability combined with the Company's increasing business share in the market and its continuing establishment as a viable force in the industries wherein it participates gives the Company confidence that its susceptibility to market deficiencies is in a much lessened state then in years past and that it can continue to achieve and maintain NASDAQ listing compliance, but of this there can be no assurance. 19 9. RISKS OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT-INTERNET MARKETING -THE COMPANY DEPENDS ON CONTINUED USE OF THE INTERNET AND GROWTH OF THE ONLINE PRODUCT PURCHASE MARKET. Because still the lines of product and product distribution established for the Company regarding its e-commerce marketing are relatively new and different from its historical non-internet product distribution business, the Company's operations in these areas should continue to be considered subject to all of the risks inherent in a new business enterprise, including the absence of an appreciable operating history and the expense of new product development and uncertainties on demand and logistics of delivery and other satisfaction of customer demands. Various problems, expenses, complications and delays may be encountered in connection with the development of the Company's new products and methods of product distribution through use of the Internet. These expenses must either be paid out of the proceeds of future equity offerings or out of generated revenues and Company profits and will likely be a drain on Company capital if revenues and revenue collection do not keep pace with Company expenses. There can be no assurance as to the continued availability of funds from revenues or from any other sources. The Company's future potential revenues and profits from product sales over the Internet as well as use of the Internet to arrange products sales in generaldepend to a great extent upon the widespread acceptance and use of the internet as an effective medium of business and communication by the Company's target customers. Rapid growth in the use of and interest in the Internet has occurred. As a result, acceptance and use continue to develop, and a sufficiently broad base of consumers have adopted, and continue to use, the Internet and other online services as a medium of commerce but there can be no assurance of continued use at the levels anticipated by the Company to sustain its internet business segments. As the Internet and online commerce industry evolve, the Company must license leading technologies useful in its business, enhance its existing services, develop new services and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of its prospective customers and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The Company may not be able to successfully implement new technologies or adapt its proprietary technology and transaction processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If the Company is unable to do so, it could adversely impact its ability to build on its varied businesses and attract and retain customers. The Company's future revenues and profits depend to a large extent upon the widespread acceptance and use of the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce by merchants and consumers. The use of the Internet and e-commerce may not continue to develop at past rates and a sufficiently broad base of business and individual customers may not adopt or continue to use the Internet as a medium of commerce. The market for the sale of goods and services over the Internet is a relatively new and emerging market. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced services and products over the Internet are subject to a high level of uncertainty. Growth in the Company's customer base depends on obtaining businesses and consumers who have historically used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods. For the Company to be successful, the Company believes that these market participants must accept and use the novel ways of conducting business and exchanging information as is provided by the internet. 20 The Internet is still relatively new and rapidly changing technology and continues to experience significant growth in the number of users, frequency of use and bandwidth requirements. There can be no assurance that the infrastructure of the Internet and other online services will be able to support the demands placed upon them and/or that the Company may be able to keep pace therewith. Furthermore, the Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and could face such outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could adversely affect the level of Internet usage and also the level of traffic and the processing of transactions. In addition, the Internet or other online services could lose their viability due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols required to handle increased levels of Internet or other online service activity, or due to increased governmental regulation. Changes in or insufficient availability of telecommunications services or other Internet service providers to support the Internet or other online services also could result in slower response times and adversely affect usage of the Internet and other online services generally and the Company's service in particular. If use of the Internet and other online services does not continue to grow or grows more slowly than expected, if the infrastructure of the Internet and other online services does not effectively support growth that may occur, or if the Internet and other online services do not become or sustain as a viable commercial marketplace, the Company will have to adapt its business model to any resulting new environment, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. 10. RAPIDLY CHANGING MARKET MAY IMPACT OPERATIONS. The market for the Company's products is rapidly changing with evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. The Company's future success will depend in part upon its continued ability to enhance its existing products and to introduce new products and features to meet changing customer requirements and emerging industry standards and to continue to have access to such products from their sources on a pricing schedule conducive to the Company operating at a profit. The Company will have to continuously develop, change and implement as and where necessary an appropriate marketing strategy for its various products. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully complete the development of future products or that the Company's current or future products will achieve market acceptance levels and be made available for sale by the Company conducive to the Company's fiscal needs. Any delay or failure of these products to achieve market acceptance or limits on their availability for sale by the Company would adversely affect the Company's business. In addition, there can be no assurance that the products or technologies developed by others will not render the Company's products or technologies non-competitive or obsolete. Management believes actions taken and presently being taken to meet and enhance the Company's operating and financial requirements should assure and provide the opportunity for the Company to continue as a going concern. However, Management cannot predict the outcome of future operations and no adjustments have been made to offset the outcome of this uncertainty in the operating segments of the Company highly dependent on Internet sales. 21 11.EXTENSIVE AND INCREASING REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND LITIGATION MAY IMPACT CIGAR INDUSTRY. The tobacco industry in general has been subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Recent trends have increased regulation of the tobacco industry. Although regulation initially focused on cigarette manufacturers, it has begun to have a broader impact on the industry as a whole and may focus more directly on cigars in the future. The increase in popularity of cigars may likely lead to an increase in regulation of cigars. A variety of bills relating to tobacco issues have been introduced in the U.S. Congress, including bills that would (i) prohibit the advertising and promotion of all tobacco products or restrict or eliminate the deductibility of such advertising expense, (ii) increase labeling requirements on tobacco products to include, among others things, addiction warnings and lists of additives and toxins, (iii) shift control of tobacco products and advertisements from the Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC") to the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"), (iv) increase tobacco excise taxes and (v) require tobacco companies to pay for health care costs incurred by the federal government in connection with tobacco related diseases. There has also been recent cooperation between federal and State authorities to curtail internet sales of tobacco products because of tax issues as well as underage purchase questions. Future enactment of such proposals or similar bills may have an adverse effect on the results of operations or financial condition of the Company. Although, except for warning labeling and smoke free facilities, current legislation and regulation focuses on cigarette smoking and sales, there is no assurance that the scope of legislation will not be expanded in the future to encompass cigars as well. A majority of states restrict or prohibit smoking in certain public places and restrict the sale of tobacco products to minors. Local legislative and regulatory bodies also have increasingly moved to curtail smoking by prohibiting smoking in certain buildings or areas or by designating "smoking" areas. These restrictions generally do not distinguish between cigarettes and cigars. These restrictions and future restrictions of a similar nature have and likely will continue to have an adverse effect on the Company's sales or operations because of resulting difficulty placed upon advertising and sale of tobacco products, such as restrictions and in many cases prohibition of counter access to or display of premium handmade cigars, and/or decisions by retailers not to advertise for sale and in many cases to sell tobacco products because of public pressure to stop the selling of tobacco products. Numerous proposals also have been and are being considered at the state and local levels, in addition to federal regulations, to restrict smoking in certain public areas, regulating point of sale placement and promotions of tobacco products and requiring warning labels. Increased cigar consumption and the publicity such increase has received may increase the risk of additional regulation. The Company cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any additional regulation of tobacco products by any federal, state, local or regulatory body, and there can be no assurance that any such legislation or regulation would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition numerous tobacco litigation has been commenced and may in the future be instituted, all of which may adversely affect(albeit focusing primarily on cigarette smoking) cigar consumption and sale and may pressure applicable government entities to institute further and stricter legislation to restrict and possibly prohibit cigar sale and consumption, any and all of which may have an adverse affect on Company business (see "Government Regulation - Tobacco Industry Regulation and Tobacco Industry Litigation" supra). 12. NO DIVIDENDS LIKELY. No dividends have been paid on the Common Stock since inception, nor, by reason of its current financial status and its contemplated financial requirements, does Synergy contemplate or anticipate paying any dividends upon its Common Stock in the near future but the Company does have outstanding preferred stock upon which dividends are paid currently. 13. POTENTIAL LIABILITY FOR CONTENT ON THE COMPANY'S WEB SITE. Because the Company posts product information and other content on its Web sites, the Company faces potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent, trademark, defamation, indecency and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that the Company posts. Such claims have been brought, and sometimes successfully pressed, against other Internet content distributors. In addition, the Company could be exposed to liability with respect to the unauthorized duplication of content or unauthorized use of other parties' proprietary technology or infiltration into the Company's system by unauthorized personnel. The Company is not aware of any present claim of such nature or any current basis therefore but because of the nature of the product marketing techniques utilized by the Company with application of the internet, likelihood of claims of such nature arising in the future cannot be predicted. 22 14. THE COMPANY'S NET SALES WOULD BE HARMED IF IT EXPERIENCES SIGNIFICANT CREDIT CARD FRAUD. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm the Company's net sales and results of operations because it does not carry insurance against such risk. Under current credit card practices, the Company may be held liable for fraudulent credit card transactions where it does not obtain a cardholder's signature, a frequent practice in internet sales. 15. POTENTIAL FUTURE SALES OF COMPANY STOCK. The majority of the shares of common stock of the Company outstanding are "restricted securities" as that term is defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933. In general under current revised Rule 144 a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six month holding period may if they are an affiliate, under certain circumstances and processes, sell within any three month period a number of shares which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale and non-affiliates have no such limitations, but under both scenarios the Company must be current in their reporting. Rule 144 also permits, the sale of shares by a person who is not an affiliate of the Company and who has satisfied a one year holding period without any limitations. The majority of holders of the shares of the outstanding common stock of the Company deemed "restricted securities" have already satisfied at least their six month holding period or will do so with the next fiscal year, and such stock is either presently or within the next fiscal year will become eligible for sale in the public market (subject to volume limitations of Rule 144 when applicable). The Company is unable to predict the effect that sales of its common stock under Rule 144, or otherwise, may have on the then prevailing market price of the common stock. However, the Company believes that the sales of such stock under Rule 144 may have a depressive effect upon the market. 16. THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE ATTRACTING NEW CUSTOMERS. The success of the Company's business model depends in large part on its continued ability to maintain and re sell to current customers and to increase its number of customers in the future. The market for its businesses may grow more slowly than anticipated because of or become saturated with competitors, many of which may offer lower prices or broader distribution. The Company is also highly dependant on internet sales which require interest of potential suppliers in the internet mode of product purchasing. Some potential suppliers may not want to join the Company's networks because they are concerned about the possibility of their products being listed together with their competitors' products thus limiting availability of product mix made available by the Company. If the Company cannot continue to bring new customers to its internet sites or maintain its existing customer base or attract listing of a mixture of product, the Company may be unable to offer the benefits of the network model at levels sufficient to attract and retain customers and sustain that aspect of its business. 17. THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS MAY SUFFER IF IT IS NOT ABLE TO PROTECT IMPORTANT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. The Company's ability to compete effectively against other companies in its industry will depend, in part, on its ability to protect its proprietary technology and systems designs relating to its technologies and its various tradenames and trademarks. In the baking mix operations, as an example, proprietary manufacturing is accomplished for products under the Country Value, County Fare, Rich n Fluffy and Rich n Moist tradename brands; and in the spice manufacturing sector recognized tradenames are Palm Spices and Gourmet Select. The Company does not know whether it has been or will be completely successful in doing so. Further, its competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to those of the Company so as to effectively compete and gain acceptance of products under other more highly recognized tradenames and trademarks. 18. THE COMPANY MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF ITS PROPRIETARY KNOWLEDGE. The Company relies, in part, on contractual provisions to protect its trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. These agreements may be breached, and the Company may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Its trade secrets may also be known without breach of such agreements or may be independently discovered by competitors. Its inability to maintain the proprietary nature of its technology could harm its business, results of operations and financial condition by adversely affecting its ability to compete. 23 19. OTHERS MAY ASSERT THAT THE COMPANY'S TECHNOLOGY INFRINGES THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. The Company believes that its technology does not infringe the proprietary rights of others. However, the e-commerce industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and trademarks and frequent claims and litigation based on allegations of patent infringement and violation of other intellectual property rights. As the e-commerce market and the functionality of products in the industry continues to grow and overlap, the Company believes that the possibility of an intellectual property claim against it will increase. For example, the Company may inadvertently infringe an intellectual property right of which it is unaware, or there may be applications to protect intellectual property rights now pending of which it is unaware which it may be infringing when they are issued in the future, or the Company's service or systems may incorporate and/or utilize third party technologies that infringe the intellectual property rights of others. The Company has been and expects to continue to be subject to alleged infringement claims. The defense of any claims of infringement made against the Company by third parties, whether or not meritorious, could involve significant legal costs and require the Company's management to divert time and attention from its business operations. Either of these consequences of an infringement claim could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results. If the Company is unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, it may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use its technology. The Company may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If the Company fails to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, its operating results may suffer either from reductions in revenues through the Company's inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. 20. THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF IT IS UNABLE TO CONTINUE TO LICENSE SOFTWARE THAT IS NECESSARY FOR ITS SERVICE OFFERING. Through distributors, the Company licenses a variety of commercially available Internet technologies, which are used in its services and systems to perform key functions. As a result, the Company is to a certain extent dependent upon continuing to maintain these technologies. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to replace the functionality provided by much of its purchased Internet technologies on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The absence of or any significant delay in the replacement of that functionality could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 21. THE COMPANY'S SYSTEMS INFRASTRUCTURE MAY NOT KEEP PACE WITH THE DEMANDS OF ITS CUSTOMERS. Interruptions of service as a result of a high volume of traffic and/or transactions could diminish the attractiveness of the Company's services and its ability to attract and retain customers. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of its service, or that it will be able to expand and upgrade its systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases in a timely manner. The Company currently maintains systems in the U.S. Any failure to expand or upgrade its systems could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition by reducing or interrupting revenue flow and by limiting its ability to attract new customers. Any such failure could also have a material adverse effect on the business of its customers, which could damage the Company's reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and potential liability. Service offerings involving complex technology often contain errors or performance problems. Many serious defects are frequently found during the period immediately following introduction and initial implementation of new services or enhancements to existing services. Although the Company attempts to resolve all errors that it believes would be considered serious by its customers before implementation, its systems are not error-free. Errors or performance problems could result in lost revenues or cancellation of customer agreements and may expose the Company to litigation and potential liability. In the past, the Company has discovered errors in software used in the Company after its incorporation into Company sites. The Company cannot assure that undetected errors or performance problems in its existing or future services will not be discovered or that known errors considered minor by it will not be considered serious by its customers. The Company has experienced periodic minor system interruptions, which may continue to occur from time to time. The Company's success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications hardware systems. These systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Despite any precautions the Company takes or plans to take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in its services. In addition, if any hosting service fails to provide the data communications capacity the Company requires, as a result of human error, natural disaster or other operational disruption, interruptions in the Company's services could result. Any damage to or failure of its systems could result in reductions in, or terminations of, its services, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. 22. THE COMPANY MAY ACQUIRE OTHER BUSINESSES OR TECHNOLOGIES, WHICH COULD RESULT IN DILUTION TO ITS STOCKHOLDERS, OR OPERATIONAL OR INTEGRATION DIFFICULTIES WHICH COULD IMPAIR ITS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, the Company may acquire complementary or strategic businesses, technologies, services or products that it believes will be useful in the growth of its business. The Company does not currently have any commitments or agreements with respect to any new acquisitions. They may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition successfully. Even if the Company does succeed in acquiring a business, technology, service or product, the process of integration may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant attention from the Company's management that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of its business. Moreover the anticipated benefits of any acquisition may not be realized or may depend on the continued service of acquired personnel who could choose to leave. If the Company makes future acquisitions, it may issue shares of stock that dilute other stockholders, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets, any of which might harm its financial results and cause its stock price to decline. Any financing that it might need for future acquisitions may only be available to it on terms that restrict its business or that impose on it costs that reduce its revenue. 23. GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE INTERNET AND E-COMMERCE IS EVOLVING AND UNFAVORABLE CHANGES COULD HARM THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS The Company is subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm the Company's business. 25 Like many Internet-based businesses, the Company operates in an environment of tremendous uncertainty as to potential government regulation. The Internet has rapidly emerged as a commerce medium, and governmental agencies have not yet been able to adapt all existing regulations to the Internet environment. Laws and regulations have been introduced or are under consideration and court decisions have been or may be reached in the U.S. and other countries in which the Company does business that affect the Internet or other online services, covering issues such as pricing, user privacy, freedom of expression, access charges, content and quality of products and services, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. In addition, it is uncertain how existing laws governing issues such as taxation, property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, libel, obscenity and personal privacy will be applied to the Internet. The majority of these laws were adopted prior to the introduction of the Internet and, as a result, do not address the unique issues of the Internet. Recent laws that contemplate the Internet, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S., have not yet been fully interpreted by the courts and their applicability is therefore uncertain. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act provides certain "safe harbors" that limits the risk of copyright infringement liability for service providers such as the Company with respect to infringing activities engaged in by users of the service. In the area of user privacy, several states have legislation and/or have proposed legislation that limits or would limit the uses of personal user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. The Federal Trade Commission also has become increasingly involved in this area. The Company does not sell personal user information regarding its customers. The Company does use aggregated data for analysis regarding the Company network, and does use personal user information in the performance of its services for its customers. Since the Company does not control what its customers do with the personal user information they collect, there can be no assurance that its customers' sites will be considered compliant. As online commerce evolves, the Company expects that federal, state or foreign agencies will continue to adopt regulations covering issues such as pricing, content, user privacy, and quality of products and services. Any future regulation may have a negative impact on the Company's business by restricting its methods of operation or imposing additional costs. Although many of these regulations may not apply to its business directly, the Company anticipates that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal information could indirectly affect its business. Internet regulation which has met with the most successful challenges is that which touches upon Free Speech. Title V of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, known as the Communications Decency Act of 1996, prohibits the knowing transmission of any comment, request, suggestion, proposal, image or other communication that is obscene or pornographic to any recipient under the age of 18. The prohibitions scope and the liability associated with a violation are currently unsettled. In addition, although substantial portions of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 have been held to be unconstitutional, the Company cannot be certain that similar legislation will not be enacted and upheld in the future. Subsequent attempts at such legislation such as the Child Online Protection Act passed in 1998 have met with similar and successful constitutional attack. It is possible that such legislation could expose companies involved in online commerce to liability, which could limit the growth of online commerce generally. Legislation like the Communications Decency Act and Child Online Protection Act could reduce the growth in Internet usage and decrease its acceptance as a communications and commerce medium. The worldwide availability of Internet web sites often results in sales of goods to buyers outside the jurisdiction in which the Company or its customers are located, and foreign jurisdictions may claim that the Company or its customers are required to comply with their laws. Foreign regulation of internet use has not met with the success of constitutional and other judicial scrutiny that US regulation has been limited by. As an Internet Company, it is also unclear which jurisdictions may find that the Company is conducting business therein. Its failure to qualify to do business in a jurisdiction that requires it to do so could subject the Company to fines or penalties and could result in its inability to enforce contracts in that jurisdiction. The Company is not aware of any recent related legislation other than that specifically referenced herein which may affect the manner in which the Company utilizes the internet in its business but there can be no assurance that future government regulation will not be enacted further restricting use of the internet that might adversely affect the Company's business. 26 24. TAXES MAY BE IMPOSED ON INTERNET COMMERCE. In the U.S., the Company does not collect sales or other similar taxes on goods sold through the Company's internet websites. The Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998, (extended through November 2003 and internet access tax prohibitions though November 1, 2007), prohibits the imposition of new or discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce by United States federal and State taxing authorities except for taxes caused by nexus of the Seller of the goods in the State. Sales to customers in such States may be taxable, but to date no such taxes have ever been collected by the Company. The Company notes that there is currently Congressional legislation pending, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act of 2007, which is intended to amend the Internet Tax Freedom Act of 1998, thereby placing a permanent moratorium on multiple and discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce and Internet access taxes. Said amendment is currently being considered by the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate, respectively. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of States, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court's constitutional concerns and resulted in a reversal of its current position, the Company could be required to collect sales and use taxes. The imposition by State and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for the Company and could decrease its future sales. The status of the prohibition is uncertain and States have attempted to impose sales and use tax, often successfully mainly based upon the nexus of the retailer with the State imposing the tax on customers in that State. A number of proposals have been made at the State and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. Such proposals, if adopted and not in conflict with federal prohibitions, could substantially impair the growth of electronic commerce, and could adversely affect the Company's opportunity to derive financial benefit from such activities. There has been recent activity in attempts to increase enforcement of the federal Jenkins Act, which requires persons whom engage in the sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco in interstate commerce to report said sale to the buyer's state tobacco tax administrator. A 2003 U.S. Government Accounting Office report found that a significant number of Internet cigarette vendors fail to comply with the Jenkins Act. Although the Jenkins Act and subsequent bills have sought the increased collection of state cigarette taxes, cigars remain outside the scope of the regulation. However, the Company cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any additional regulation of tobacco products by any federal, state, or local or regulatory body, and there can be no assurance that any such legislation or regulation would not have material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, non-U.S. countries may seek to impose service tax (such as value-added tax) collection obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate Internet commerce. A successful assertion by one or more states or any foreign country that the Company should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise could impair its revenues and its ability to acquire and retain customers. 27 25. THERE MAY BE SIGNIFICANT SECURITY RISKS AND PRIVACY CONCERNS RELATING TO ONLINE COMMERCE. A significant barrier to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. A compromise or breach of the technology used to protect the Company's customers' and their end-users' transaction data could result from, among other things, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments. Any such compromise could have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation and, therefore, on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, a party who is able to circumvent the Company's security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in its operations. The Company may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and other online services and the privacy of users may also inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. The Company currently has practices and procedures in place to protect the confidentiality of its customers' and their end-users' information. However, its security procedures to protect against the risk of inadvertent disclosure or intentional breaches of security might fail to adequately protect information that it's obligated to keep confidential. The Company may not be successful in adopting more effective systems for maintaining confidential information, and its exposure to the risk of disclosure of the confidential information of others may grow with increases in the amount of information it possesses. To the extent that the Company activities involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could damage its reputation and expose it to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. The Company's insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse it for losses caused by security breaches. 26. IF THE COMPANY'S FULFILLMENT CENTERS ARE NOT EFFECTIVELY OPERATED THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. If the Company does not successfully operate its fulfillment centers such could significantly limit the Company's ability to meet customer's demands, which would likely result in diminished revenues, adversely affecting the Company's business. Because it is difficult to predict sales increases the Company may not manage its facilities in an optimal way which may result in excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity having an adverse impact on working capital of the Company, or the lack of sufficiency in such areas causing delays in fulfillment of customer orders adversely affecting customer confidence and loyalty. 28 27. OUR VENDOR RELATIONSHIPS SUBJECT US TO A NUMBER OF RISKS Although we continue to increase the number of vendors that supply products to us and only two vendors account for 10% or more of our inventory purchases, we have significant vendors that are important to our sourcing and co-packing and labeling on proprietary products. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise and channeling of product distribution, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. If the Company's current vendors were to stop selling merchandise to us or assisting in product distribution channeling on acceptable terms, the Company may not be able to acquire merchandise or channel product from other vendors and customer sources in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms. 28. CHANGE IN TOP CUSTOMERS/SUPPLIERS SELLING/BUYING PATTERNS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S SALES AND PROFITS The Company's top 2 customers represent 23% of its 2007 total sales, and top 3 customers 49% of its 2006 total sales. The Company's largest supplier, Proctor and Gamble, represents 59% of its product distribution availability in 2007 and 2006. If any of the top customers change their buying patterns with the Company and/or top suppliers limit product supply, the Company's sales and profits could be adversely affected. 29. LOSS OF FACILITIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESULTS The Company has one principal production facility for its baking mix operations, which facility is a four story manufacturing plant in Monroe, Michigan where the Company's signature baking mix products are exclusively manufactured. The loss of such production facility could have material adverse impact on the Company's operations, financial condition and results of operations. 30. TERMS OF INDEBTEDNESS IMPOSE SIGNIFICANT RESTRICTIONS ON OUR BUSINESS The Company's Credit and Debt Instruments Agreements, ("Agreements") contain various covenants that limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur or become liable for additional indebtedness; create or suffer to exist certain liens; enter into business combinations or asset sale transactions; make restricted payments, including dividends over a specified amount; and make investments. These restrictions could limit the Company's ability to obtain future financing, sell assets, make acquisitions or needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in its business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. 31. THREATS OR POTENTIAL THREATS TO SECURITY OR FOOD SAFETY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Wartime activities, threats or acts of terror, data theft, information espionage, or other criminal activity directed at the grocery or drug store industry, the transportation industry, or computer or communications systems, including security measures implemented in recognition of actual or potential threats, could increase security costs, adversely affect the Company's operations, or impact consumer behavior and spending and customer orders. Other events that give rise to actual or potential food contamination, drug contamination, or food-borne illness could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results. 32. THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE IS LIKELY TO BE HIGHLY VOLATILE. The stock market, and in particular the market for Internet-related stocks, has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Many factors may cause the market price for the Company's common stock to decline, perhaps substantially, including: - actual or anticipated variations in the Company's quarterly operating results and expected future results; - changes in, or failure to meet, financial estimates by securities analysts; - unscheduled system downtime; - additions or departures of key personnel; - announcements of technological innovations or new services by the Company or its competitors; - initiation of or developments in litigation affecting the Company; 29 - conditions or trends in the Internet and online commerce industries; - changes in the market valuations of other Internet, online commerce, or technology companies; - developments in regulation; - announcements by the Company or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, new product of capital commitments; - unanticipated economic or political events; - sales of the Company's common stock or other securities in the open market; and - other events or factors, including those described in the "Risk Factors", section and others that may be beyond the Company's control. - failure to meet its development plans; - the demand for its common stock; - downward revision in securities analyst's estimates or changes in general market conditions; - technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; and - investor perception of the Company's industry or its prospects. The Company's stock pricing has fluctuated significantly in the past and there is no assurance such trend may not continue in the future. 30 33. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS RISKS. The Company deals with Companies not located in the United States. Although almost all business activity is conducted in United States Dollars, the Company may be subject to currency risks and may be subject to international risks that are not under the jurisdiction of U.S. Laws. In 2007 the Company had transactions with Companies located in Canada, China, Dominican Republic, Colombia, Italy and Israel. 