ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Related to Our Business Our future capital needs will require us to seek a merger partner and sell all or portions of our operating assets. Our existing cash balances and our anticipated cash flow from operations will not satisfy our working capital needs for the foreseeable future. Because of the decline in our sales volume and the lack of market acceptance for our storage software, we evaluated strategic alternatives to enhance shareholder value. As a result of our evaluation, we entered into an agreement to sell our embedded hardware business to One Stop Systems, Inc. for $2.2 million in cash and the assumption of the lease on our headquarters building. We also signed an agreement to merge with Neonode, Inc. Both of these transactions are subject to the approval of our shareholders. After the sale of the embedded business and merger transactions are completed, we will no longer be active in the embedded hardware business and will change our name to “Neonode, Inc” and be active in the design and manufacturing of mobile telephones. Historically, the overwhelming majority of our cash flow from operations has been generated from our embedded hardware business that we are selling and after the sale of that business our future cash flow will be wholly dependent on Neonode’s ability to execute on its business plan. -12- Our future capital needs may exceed our ability to raise capital. We do not believe that our existing cash balances and our anticipated cash flow from our currently operations will satisfy our working capital needs for the foreseeable future. Failure to sell our embedded hardware business to One Stop Systems and merge with Neonode will require us to seek additional financing in fiscal 2007. There can be no assurance that additional financing, if required, will be available on reasonable terms or at all. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. If our storage software products contain undetected errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses and experience product returns and lost sales. Our storage software products are highly technical and complex. While our storage software products have been tested, because of their nature, we can not be certain of their performance either as stand-alone products or when integrated with our customer’s product lines. There can be no assurance that defects or errors may not arise or be discovered in the future. Any defects or errors in our storage software products discovered in the future could result in a loss of customers or decrease in net revenue and market share. We depend upon a small number of OEM customers. The loss of any of these customers, or their failure to sell their products, could limit our ability to generate revenues. Orders by our OEM customers are affected by factors such as new product introductions, product life cycles, inventory levels, manufacturing strategies, contract awards, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. Our sales to any single OEM customer are also subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A significant reduction in orders from any of our OEM customers, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Because of our dependence on single suppliers for some components, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of such components, or we may be required to pay higher prices or purchase components of lesser quality. The chip sets used in some of our products are currently available only from a single supplier. If these suppliers discontinue or upgrade some of the components used in our products, we could be required to redesign a product to incorporate newer or alternative technology. The inability to obtain sufficient key components as required, or to develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments or margins that, in turn, would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If enough components are unavailable, we may have to pay a premium in order to meet customer demand. Paying premiums for parts, building inventories of scarce parts and obsolescence of existing inventories could lower or eliminate our profit margin, reduce our cash flow and otherwise harm our business. To offset potential component shortages, we have in the past, and may in the future, carry an inventory of these components. As a result, our inventory of components parts may become obsolete and may result in write-downs. -13- If we fail to develop and produce new products, we may lose sales and our reputation may be harmed. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce new products and features to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies such as VoIP, third generation wireless services (3G Wireless), SATA, iSCSI, SAS, Gigabit Ethernet, 10G and TOE. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products. In addition, there can be no assurance that services, products or technologies developed by others will not render our products obsolete. We have focused a significant portion of our research and development, marketing and sales efforts on HighWire, WAN and LAN adapters and storage software products. The success of these products is dependent on several factors, including timely completion of new product designs, achievement of acceptable manufacturing quality and yields, introduction of competitive products by other companies, market acceptance of our products and our ability to sell our products. If the HighWire, adapter products, storage software or other new products developed by us do not gain market acceptance, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be materially adversely affected. Our storage software products will require a substantial product development investment by us and we may not realize any return on our investment. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process. As we develop new features for our storage software, our customers may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements. Development costs and expenses are incurred before we generate any net revenue from sales of the products resulting from these efforts. We expect to incur additional research and development expenses relating to our storage software product lines, which could have a negative impact on our earnings in future periods. The storage and embedded products market is intensely competitive, and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our revenues and margins. We compete directly with traditional vendors of storage software and hardware devices, including Fibre Channel SAN products, open source “free” software, TOE and application-specific storage solutions. We compete with communications suppliers of routers, switches, gateways, NICs and other products that connect to the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) and the Internet. In the future, we expect competition from companies offering client/server access solutions based on emerging technologies such as Fibre Channel, switched digital telephone services, iSCSI, SAS, TOE and other technologies. In addition, we may encounter increased competition from operating system and network operating system vendors to the extent that such vendors include full communications and storage capabilities in their products. We may also encounter future competition from telephony service providers (such as AT&T or the regional Bell operating companies) and storage product providers (such as EMC Corporation, Network Appliance, Inc. and Qlogic Corporation). -14- Increased competition with respect to any of our products could result in price reductions and loss of market share, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or will be able to compete successfully with new competitors. We signed an agreement to sell our embedded hardware business and that business generates substantially all our revenue and gross margin. We also risk the loss of customers for our embedded hardware products by announcing the sale of the embedded hardware business. We depend on our key personnel. If we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional qualified personnel as needed, our business will be harmed. We are highly dependent on the technical, management, marketing and sales skills of a limited number of key employees. We do not have employment agreements with, or life insurance on the lives of, any of our key employees. The loss of the services of any key employees could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly talented personnel to the extent our business grows. Competition for qualified personnel in the networking and software industries, and in the San Francisco Bay Area, is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our key employees or that we can attract or retain additional skilled personnel as required. We may be unable to protect our software, which could reduce any competitive advantage we have. Although we believe that our future success will depend primarily on continuing innovation, sales, marketing and technical expertise and the quality of product support and customer relations, we must also protect the proprietary technology contained in our products. We do not currently hold any patents and rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual provisions to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. There can be no assurance that steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology. Although we believe that our products and technology do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Risks Associated with Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, the failure to meet analyst estimates, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the computer and communications industries and other events or factors. Our common stock has historically had relatively small trading volumes. As a result, small transactions in our common stock can have a disproportionately large impact on the quoted price of our common stock. -15- If we continue to experience losses we could experience difficulty meeting our business plan, and our stock price could be negatively affected. We experienced a decline in our sales volume of our embedded hardware products and a lack of market acceptance for our storage software that dramatically effected our operating cash flow for fiscal 2006. If we are unable to gain market acceptance of tour storage software solutions, we will experience continuing operating losses and negative cash flow from our operations. Any failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that we will continue to incur product development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses. As a result, we will need to generate significant quarterly revenues if we are to achieve and maintain profitability. A substantial failure to achieve profitability could make it difficult or impossible for us to grow our business. Our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. Any failure to significantly increase revenues would also harm our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. If we do achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our merger with Neonode, Inc. may not produce the desired results. In September 2006, our Board of Directors and management believed the best course of action was to consider selling our embedded hardware and storage software businesses and to consider seeking a viable merger candidate. On January 11, 2007, we signed an asset purchase agreement with One Stop Systems, Inc., a private California corporation, to purchase our embedded hardware business for $2.2 million cash plus the assumption of our corporate headquarters office lease and a lease for certain engineering equipment. When the divesture of our embedded hardware business is completed we will no longer participate in the embedded hardware markets. On January 19, 2007, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, with Neonode Inc., a Delaware corporation. Neonode is a Swedish based developer and manufacturer of multimedia mobile handsets. It is anticipated that our name will be changed to “Neonode Inc.” in connection with the completion of the merger. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the required approval of our shareholders, and if we do, we may not be successful in increasing shareholder value and our stock price may be negatively affected. Our common stock is at risk for delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market. If it is delisted, our stock price and your liquidity may be impacted. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Nasdaq has requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. These requirements include maintaining a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 and minimum stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million. Our stockholders’ equity as of October 31, 2006 was approximately $3.3 million and our closing bid price on October 31, 2006 was $0.37. On July 14, 2006, we received a notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market (Nasdaq) indicating that for 30 consecutive business days prior to the notification date, the bid price of our common stock closed below the $1.00 minimum bid price required for continued listing by Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4) (the Rule). On January 11, 2007, we received a notice from Nasdaq that our stock is subject to delisting and that we would not be given an additional 180 day compliance period indicating that we did not meet Nasdaq’s initial listing criteria as set forth in Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c). Our shareholders’ equity is less than the required $5.0 million and the market value of our public float is less than the required $5.0 million. We filed an appeal of the staff’s determination to a Listings Qualifications Panel (Panel). Delisting of our stock from Nasdaq is stayed pending the determination of the Listings Qualifications Panel. We have an appeals hearing with the Panel scheduled for February 22, 2007. -16- If we fail to regain compliance with the standards necessary to be quoted on Nasdaq or we are unsuccessful in our appeal of the delisting determination and our common stock is delisted, trading in our common stock would be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board as long as we continue to file reports required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The OTC Bulletin Board is generally considered to be a less efficient market than Nasdaq, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Furthermore, certain other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. ITEM 