Risk Factors" on page 15 and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview SBE, Inc. engineers and provides standards based hardware and software products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) who embed our products into their systems to provide data storage and network connectivity solutions for the enterprise storage and telecommunications markets. Our operations are organized into two business segments: Embedded and Storage Products. The Embedded Products segment designs and manufactures a broad range of embedded computing products including Voice over IP (VoIP), T1/T3 adapter cards and programmable intelligent processing platforms. Revenue from this business segment in 2005 was $8.1 million, representing 100% of our total sales. The Storage Products segment develops standards-based Internet Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI) software for a newly emerging Internet Protocol (IP) based storage market. The Storage business was purchased in July 2005 and had no revenues in 2005. We believe that there is a continuing trend towards the use of IP based software and hardware solutions for storage and networking applications such as storage and communications over the Internet. Industry experts in IP storage and VoIP project growth trends that justify our efforts in these markets. Recent reports from International Data Corporation (IDC) indicate that the iSCSI based IP storage area networks (SAN) market will reach $296 million in 2005 and $2.7 billion by 2008. Reports from Infonetics Research indicate that the market for VoIP products will grow to $5 billion in 2007. In fiscal 2005 we made significant strategic moves to maximize our opportunities in the IP Storage and VoIP communications markets. (i) o We acquired PyX Technologies, Inc. (PyX), a privately-held software company that developed iSCSI products for the enterprise storage market. Developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), iSCSI is a storage protocol that offers customers the consolidation, scalability, and management advantages of a SAN, without requiring the use of unfamiliar, complex, and expensive Fibre Channel network infrastructure. The iSCSI protocol is a block Input/Output (I/O) -4- protocol implemented on industry standard TCP/IP, typically Ethernet-based, networks. Among the many features it offers, iSCSI provides remote access to secure multi-terabyte storage using desktops, laptops, personal digital assistant (PDA), or other mobile devices, and offers significant cost savings over existing storage alternatives. By merging PyX's iSCSI software with SBE's traditional embedded communications hardware, we believe that we now have the necessary hardware technology and software to create high-performance, cost-effective IP-based storage blades for use by our traditional telecommunications customers as well as by OEMs in the emerging IP SAN enterprise storage markets. o We developed our digital signal processor (DSP) adapters that allow us to leverage our current embedded adapter and intelligent carrier card products to enable our existing customers to take advantage of two significant markets: VoIP and Video over IP. A DSP is a specialized microprocessor uniquely designed to facilitate high speed audio and video processing. All of our DSP products can be combined with our intelligent carrier card hardware plus our I/O and connectivity modules to create a robust gateway on a blade that is a critical component for building VoIP or Video over IP networks. Among the primary reasons for the success of IP-based solutions are enhanced functionality, reduced start-up costs, and lower cost of ownership. IP voice, data and networked storage solutions are designed to address the expansion of the virtual workforce, globalization, growth of communications traffic, and the increased need for business agility by breaking down distance barriers and enabling new ways to share and store information and collaborate in a global business environment. Consequently, these new solutions provide businesses a competitive edge with improved productivity and communication. Our goal is to deliver exceptional value to our OEM customers by providing IP-based products and services that set the standard for interoperability, state-of-the-art functionality and ease of integration. Our unwavering focus on meeting this goal extends from product design and system operation through support and business operations. We believe this ultimately results in significant customer advantages, including: o Accelerated time-to-deployment. We position ourselves as an extension of our customers' engineering teams, focusing on satisfying their price/performance and time-to-market challenges through product innovation, technological expertise, and comprehensive support. By doing so, we reinforce the advantages and efficiencies of outsourcing embedded hardware and software, and allow our customers to focus their resources on their core competencies and value-added services. o Full Standards Compliance Solutions. We help ensure rapid application deployment and smooth integration into our customers' products by utilizing and supporting industry standards-compliant hardware and software development. We actively contribute and participate in key industry organizations, such as the Storage Networking Industry Association (SNIA), VME International Trade Association (VITA), and PCI Industrial Computers Manufacturers Group (PICMG). SNIA brings together vendors, resellers and consumers of data storage and storage networking products/services to deliver architectures, education, and services that will propel storage networking solutions into the broader market. VITA is the champion for open technology in the bus and board market. PICMG is a -5- consortium of over 450 companies who collaboratively develop specifications that adapt Peripheral Component Interconnect, a local computer bus standard developed by Intel Corporation (PCI), technology for use in industrial and telecommunications computing applications. We plan to continue to adopt and design products in compliance with widely-accepted industry standards as it applies to new technologies, including 10 Gigabit Ethernet (10G), iSCSI, AdvancedTCA (ATCA) and AdvancedMC (AMC). o Linux On Demand. We offer Linux Operating System (OS) support across all of our board level and storage software products. Many of our customers have and continue to develop on Linux platforms. Providing OEMs with Linux drivers and board support packages helps reduce development overhead, decrease deployment times and ensure successful product integration. We plan to expand future developments on Linux-based products as well as other emerging technologies that enable us to be well-positioned for integration into next generation networking applications. o Strategic Alliances. Our goal is to deliver superior solutions to our OEM customers. We believe that partnerships with our OEM customers will enhance our ability to reduce implementation times, increase application availability, and provide the highest level of solution support to customers. Our partners are vital to our success in this area, and we have significant partner relationships with both hardware and software business application companies including: o LSI Logic, Inc. (LSI), a leading provider of application-specific integrated circuit (ASICs) and storage solutions to bundle our iSCSI software with their MegaRAID(R) 300-8X SATA RAID storage adapter. This combined product is sold and marketed under the name iMegaRAID by LSI. o Texas Instruments (TI), is a leading provider of DSPs. We partner with TI to supply the most advanced voice, video, and data components available for integration into our voice and video over IP solutions. We are a member of the TI TMS320(TM) third party program, With more than 650 independent companies and consultants, this program is one of the most extensive collection of global DSP development support in the industry. Through our partnership with TI, we believe that our customers have easy access to a broad range of application software, development hardware and software and consulting services. o HCL Technologies (HCL), is a leading global solutions provider in information technology (IT), IT infrastructure services and business process outsourcing (BPO). We believe that our partnership with HCL allows us to strengthen our ability to rapidly respond to a dynamic business environment, adapt to changing market conditions, and optimize technology resources for our storage software products. o NComm provides comprehensive wide area network (WAN) solutions coupling our high-performance WAN adapter cards with NComm's intelligent top-level software drivers. Portable to any of our customers' operating systems, NComm's Trunk Management Software (TMS) performs all aspects of connectivity with our adapter products, including alarming, performance monitoring and signaling. We believe that this joint solution results in significant cost savings for our customers and speeds up their time-to-market by 6-12 months. -6- o We are collaborating with Signalogic, Inc., a Texas corporation, to develop our VoIP products featuring TI's programmable DSPs with Telogy Software(R) and Wintegra's WinPath network processor to enable integration of voice, data, and fax over IP. o We are an active member of Sun Microsystems' iForce and Solaris Ready Partner programs. In addition, we supply a variety of SCSI, Gigabit Ethernet and I/O adapters to Sun Professional Services and other Sun-based organizations. Products & Technologies Over the past several years we have witnessed a proliferation of new applications in the networking market relating to IP-based technologies. OEMs are placing a heavy emphasis on cost-effective, feature-rich, highly configurable, standards-based solutions that can be seamlessly integrated into their systems. As the way we do business continues to change and evolve in the face of new challenges, such as using the Internet for communications and storage applications, networking infrastructure must change and evolve to accommodate current business needs. IP technologies, such as iSCSI and VoIP, have been touted by many as being "disruptive" technologies that will not only create new industries, but will also change the way of life across the globe. Our embedded hardware and software solutions enable storage and networking OEMs to rapidly deploy next generation solutions in the storage, high-end enterprise class server, data communications, and telecommunications markets. In catering to both the IP storage and embedded markets, our solutions have been integrated into a multitude of applications worldwide, including network attached storage (NAS)/SAN gateways, disaster recovery solutions, virtual private networks (VPNs), remote access devices, data/voice convergence, voice conferencing, VoIP gateways, wireless networks, satellite communications, IP SANs, and mission critical data centers. Storage Products iSCSI Storage Software Management Solutions Developed to extend the reach of SANs by enabling SAN functionality over the IP network, iSCSI technology uses the SCSI command set over TCP/IP, enabling any requesting node on the IP network (the initiator) to contact any remote storage server (the target) and perform block I/O on the target as if it was a local hard drive. Because of the ubiquity of IP networks, iSCSI can be used to transmit data over local area networks (LANs), WANs, or the Internet and can enable location independent data storage and retrieval. iSCSI has no distance limitations, can utilize existing network infrastructure, does not require specialized training, and takes advantage of Ethernet's economies of scale. With the immediate availability of 10G adapters and switches, we believe that iSCSI SANs can more than double the performance levels of leading-edge Fibre Channel implementations, while mass adoption continues to drive costs down. Specifically, the availability of 10G copper-based equipment will make 10G deployments even more affordable. -7- Managing storage is regarded as one of the most burdensome responsibilities of a company's data center management. In the direct-attached storage (DAS) environments that most small to mid-sized companies deploy, the process of managing storage is made more difficult by the number of physical connection points and the number of storage systems in the organization. Imagine an environment with ten computers, each with its own storage system. That creates ten storage systems that need to be managed and maintained, which then equates to ten times the effort normally required in order to handle storage expansion, reallocation and repairs. One of the main driving forces behind a transition from DAS to an IP SAN is often high data growth and the need for operations efficiency. In these circumstances the legacy DAS environment becomes increasingly complex, backup/restore operations become increasingly unreliable, and the storage environment is unable to support the demands of the business. On top of all that, regulatory compliance pressures, the need to integrate geographically dispersed data assets, and the availability of effective information life-cycle management solutions create further issues and serve as drivers behind the move to IP SANs. Another significant driver behind IP SANs is the availability of data center staff. Most smaller, regional, and departmental data centers have to operate with limited staff. Often, the decision to move to a SAN environment hinges on whether the existing staff can handle it. In these cases an IP SAN solution becomes a viable alternative, since it can almost always be more easily managed by existing staff and skill sets. Designed for virtualizing physical media, iSCSI is ideal for storage applications serving databases, streaming audio/video servers, as well as clustered computing. iSCSI with full Error Recovery Level 2 (ERL2) enables robust disaster recovery, back-up, and replication over remote sites via existing IP WANs. Given its thin software layer, network administrators can turn almost any TCP-enabled device into an iSCSI initiator or target, giving near universal access to a network while preserving existing Ethernet investments. Our iSCSI solution is scalable from Wi-Fi to 10G for IP SANs and we believe delivers the same level of reliability, quality of service and system robustness as alternative solutions, such as Fibre Channel, but at a fraction of the cost. We believe that the advanced features designed into the architecture of our PyX iSCSI protocol stack enables highly efficient and cost-effective storage transport by optimizing bandwidth usage, enabling unlimited storage to be attached to each target device, and leveraging existing network technologies. Our iSCSI software provides multipathing I/O functionality for maximum redundancy and reliability, aggregation of bandwidth to reduce service costs, as well as multiple connections per session to increase bandwidth efficiency and data integrity. Enterprise-level quality of service functionality enables traffic to be consistently classified, prioritized, and queued at line rate. We believe that the ERL2 featured in our PyX iSCSI protocol stack increases system reliability, availability and adaptability. ERL2 supports active/active task migration, which prevents session and data loss. Our iSCSI stack is fully tested and compliant with IETF RFC-3720 iSCSI standards, including all mandatory and optional feature sets. Our PyX iSCSI target supports most Linux distributions and is compatible with any compliant iSCSI initiator under any OS distribution, including Linux, Windows and Solaris. An additional benefit of using iSCSI transport is its interoperability with any storage protocol (SCSI, Serial Attached SCSI (SAS), Serial ATA (SATA), Fiber Channel drives). -8- TCP/IP Offload Engine (TOE) A TOE is a highly specialized TCP/IP protocol accelerator. Typically, in the form of a network interface card (NIC), it is designed to reduce the amount of host central processing unit (CPU) cycles required for TCP/IP processing and maximize Ethernet throughput. This is accomplished by offloading TCP/IP protocol processing from the host processor to the hardware on the TOE. Our TOE card is sold individually or bundled with our iSCSI software. It is designed to provide fast, reliable, and secure access to networked storage devices via the Internet without seriously impacting the host CPU. Embedded Products DSP and VoIP Gateways DSP products have been used for years, performing accelerated number-crunching for digital-to-analog and analog-to-digital signal conversion in systems, used in audio, medical instrumentation, geological, military, and communications applications. Targeting the next-generation of DSP applications interfacing to the Internet, SBE recently announced two different products featuring TI's latest ASICs supporting both VoIP and video over IP. These modules are available as stand-alone solutions for existing systems or can be attached to our intelligent processor platform in conjunction with other SBE I/O modules - to create multifunction gateway "blades". By building blades that are open-standards based and interoperable with third-party equipment, we help to minimize network infrastructure costs by facilitating seamless, multi-vendor environments for both media gateways and softswitch/media gateway controllers. Additionally, our high-density DSP products allow our customers to protect and leverage their investments in existing DSP code, allowing them to reduce the time to market and minimize risk by leveraging the scalability and programmability of our adapter's DSP farm with an extensive selection of optimized algorithms. VoIP Products. VoIP first emerged in the early 1990s as a way to conduct voice conversations over the Internet without incurring telephone charges. Today, the capacity, speed and reach of data networks are expanding much faster than traditional circuit-switched voice networks. Voice over packet solutions, such as VoIP, leverage those data network resources and contemporary packet-switching technologies to generate new revenue opportunities and cost savings for both competitive voice service providers and existing telecommunications carriers. The result is that telecommunications companies are frantically investing in VoIP infrastructure equipment. And while proprietary VoIP systems initially helped establish the market, the trend is clearly toward open and interoperable VoIP platforms that easily permit equipment makers and carrier customers to add differentiable value. Our VoIP module with unparalleled capacity, up to OC3, is based on the PTMC standard form factor, and supports up to 2304 premium carrier class voice channels. The TNET3010 DSPs are fully integrated with Telogy Software, the VoIP industry's most widely deployed VoIP software which supports features for compression, echo cancellation, voice activity detection, and many wireless codecs. In telecommunications, codecs (short for coder/decoder) is a device that encodes or decodes a signal. For example, telephone companies use codecs to convert binary signals transmitted on their digital networks to analog signals converted on their analog networks. In addition, a powerful on-board packet processor, built by Wintegra, converts the DSP packet into an IP-compatible packet. -9- Voice, video, and data. For customers not needing VoIP related software, our module based on TI's TMS6415 device provides a contemporary "triple play" solution. Using TI's TMS6415 device, which is the world's first Gigahertz DSP, translates into a new spectrum of application opportunities ranging from adaptive antenna arrays to smart cars to artificial vision while increasing the bandwidth and channel capacity of existing real-time applications, such as wireless base stations, IP-based video, high-speed broadband networking, medical diagnostics and radar. Our 6415 product is based on the standard PTMC form factor, and is available with up to eight DSP devices per board. TI's 64xx software development tools allow Code Composer Studio, Chip Support Library and other libraries to operate with the board. Network Interface Cards Wide Area Networking Adapters. A wide area network is a computer or communications network that spans a relatively large geographical area. Computers attached to a WAN are often connected through dedicated networks, such as the telephone system, leased lines or satellites. Our series of WAN adapter products is designed to address the need for WAN interfaces in data communication products, such as those used in Internet and other communications routers, security firewalls, VPN servers and VoIP gateways. We provide a broad range of standards-based interfaces that can be easily integrated into our OEM customers' products. Local Area Networking Adapters. A local area network is a computer network spanning a relatively small geographical area. Often confined to a single building or group of buildings, most LANs connect workstations and personal computers in an office environment. Each computer in the LAN is able to access data and devices, such as printers, located anywhere on the LAN. There are many different types of LANs but Ethernet is the one that is most commonly deployed. Ethernet LAN connectivity is utilized by virtually every market segment in both the embedded and enterprise space. Our LAN adapter products are focused on LAN connectivity using high speed Ethernet technology. We offer single, dual or quad port LAN adapters that feature connectivity speeds of up to 10 Megabits (Mb)/second, 100 Mb/second or 1000 Mb/second. Our Gigabit Ethernet NICs include trunking and failover features. These features allow our customers' systems to take advantage of static load balancing and failure recovery within a user-defined communications trunk. Our Gigabit Ethernet NICs are designed to distribute traffic across the aggregated links, detect port failures, and increase throughput. In the event of a system failure, the software will automatically redistribute outgoing loads across the remaining links. Storage Network Interface Cards. Our storage NICs are comprised of SCSI products. SCSI is a parallel interface standard used by personal computers and many UNIX systems for attaching peripheral devices, such as printers and disk drives, to computers. SCSI interfaces are designed to allow for faster transmission rates than standard serial ports, which transfer data one bit at a time, and parallel ports, which simultaneously transfer data more than one bit -10- at a time. Our series of SCSI host bus adapters are specifically designed for the enterprise Sun UNIX market. With transfer rates ranging from 40 Megabytes (MB)/sec to 320 MB/sec, our SCSI adapters have been utilized in data centers and enterprise environments within the financial, government, manufacturing, and healthcare sectors. These SCSI boards are also utilized in UNIX-based SCSI tape backup systems. Encryption Adapters. Our securePMC series of high-performance security offload solutions is designed for integration into Linux-based systems. Advanced encryption processors accelerate SSL and IPsec cryptographic operations, significantly improving security, performance, and availability of networking applications. Designed to enable quick integration by OEMs, Value Added Resellers (VARs) and end users, our securePMC adapters can be used in a wide variety of networking equipment, including routers, switches, web servers, server load balancers, firewalls, SANs and VPN gateways. Intelligent Communications Controllers Our HighWire products are "intelligent," containing their own microprocessors and memory. This architecture allows our communications controllers to offload many of the lower-level communications tasks that would typically be performed by the host platform. In the telecommunications market, the HighWire series of communications controller products provide high bandwidth intelligent connectivity to servers designed to act as gateways and signaling points within communication networks and network devices. The HighWire co-processing controllers enable operators of wireline and wireless networks to deliver Intelligent Network and Advanced Intelligent Network services such as Caller ID, voice messaging, personal number calling, Service Provider Local Number Portability, and customized routing and billing, as well as digital wireless services such as Personal Communications Systems (PCS) and Global System for Mobile Telecommunications (GSM). The HighWire products are designed for integration with standard server platforms that enable traditional carriers and new telecommunications entrants to pursue cost-reduced and performance-enhanced network architectures based on IP, broadband or other "packet" technologies. Other Although we continue to sell and manufacture legacy products such as Multibus, Versa Module Europa (VME)bus, and ISA, we emphasize four principal lines of products: iSCSI software, DSP products, WAN/LAN connectivity products, and carrier platforms (also known as our "HighWire" line). -11- The following table shows sales by major product type as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003: Year Ended October 31, 2005 2004 2003 --------------------------------------------- (percentage of net sales) VME 20% 43% 53% WAN Adapter 39 34 30 LAN Adapter 8 8 5 Storage NIC 1 4 2 HighWire 32 11 10 --------------------------------------------- 100% 100% 100% ============================================= Distribution, Sales, and Marketing We sell and license our products, both domestically and internationally, using a direct sales force as well as independent manufacturers' representatives, resellers, and distributors. We believe that our direct sales force is well suited to communicate how our products differ from those of our competitors. Since our products represent a complex and technical sale, our sales force is supported by field application engineers who provide customers with pre-sale technical assistance. Our internal sales and marketing organization supports our channel marketing partners by providing sales collateral, such as product data sheets, presentations, and other sales/marketing resource tools. Our sales staff solicits prospective customers, provides technical advice with respect to our products, and works closely with marketing partners to train and educate their staffs on how to sell, install, and support our product lines. We have signed an agreement with LSI to bundle our iSCSI target software product with their MegaRAID SATA-II adapters, for a product LSI markets as "iMegaRAID". As the worldwide leader in SATA adapter boards, LSI will sell iMegaRAID directly and through their manufacturer's representatives. We will continue to support LSI and its sales channel to identify and cultivate future business opportunities. We have focused our sales and marketing efforts in North America, Europe and Asia. All of our international sales are negotiated and executed in U.S. dollars. International sales constituted 37%, 12% and 12% of net sales in fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Our international sales are primarily in Europe. Our direct sales force is based in four locations in the United States and we conduct our marketing activities from our corporate headquarters in San Ramon, California. Research and Development We continue to invest in research and development of current and emerging technologies that we deem critical to maintaining our competitive position in the storage and communications markets. Many factors are involved in determining the strategic direction of our product development focus, including trends and developments in the marketplace, competitive analyses, market demands, business conditions, and feedback from our customers and strategic partners. We actively support and contribute to standards development organizations and trade groups, which define and promote existing and emerging technologies for both the storage and communications arenas. -12- Our product development efforts are focused principally on our strategic product lines, providing high bandwidth connectivity, computing solutions and advanced iSCSI software features that serve a wide range of networking and storage applications. Leveraging our experience in iSCSI storage software and high-speed communications enables us to develop integrated hardware and software storage solutions for our customers. We believe that the development of new internetworking products, high-performance communications controllers and enabling storage software is essential to expanding our customer base, penetrating new markets, and retaining existing customers. During fiscal 2005, we acquired PyX and continued development of the PyX iSCSI software products to bring a broader spectrum of IP storage solutions to market. During the year, we also continued to focus on further expanding our line of standards-based intelligent carrier platforms, two DSP products, upgrading/enhancing software drivers, and developing new products based on the emerging AMC form factor. During fiscal 2005, 2004 and 2003, we incurred $2.7 million, $2.4 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in product research and development expenses. Commitment to Quality We have been an ISO certified supplier of communications products since 1991. In December 2001, we achieved certification to the internationally recognized ISO9001: 2000 Standard. As part of our ongoing commitment to quality, we are regularly inspected by an audit team from Bureau Veritas Quality International (NA) Inc. These audits are deigned to ensure that our internal quality system meets internationally recognized quality management systems standards. We believe that our customers' success depends on the delivery of high-quality products and services. Our adherence to ISO standards and resulting quality practices is one of our many methods for assuring that we meet our customer expectations. Manufacturing We do not engage in any manufacturing operations. Instead, we utilize third-party manufacturers to build our embedded hardware products. We currently have non-exclusive manufacturing agreements with ProWorks, Inc. and Sonic Manufacturing Technology. We believe that ProWorks and Sonic are equipped to provide cost-efficient and timely product delivery, thus allowing us to focus on our core competencies of product development and technology innovation. The use of external manufacturing partners allows us to respond more quickly and effectively to fluctuations in customer demand. Competition The market for both storage and communications interface products is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and are well established in the space. Competition within the communications market varies principally by application segment. Our iSCSI storage software product competes with products designed and/or manufactured by Wasabi Systems, StringBean Software, FalconStor Software and UNH. Our intelligent communications -13- products compete with offerings from Radisys Corp, Performance Technologies, Interphase Corp, Artesyn Technologies, and Adax, along with various other platform and controller product providers. Our WAN/LAN products compete primarily with products from Performance Technologies, Motorola, Interphase Corp., Themis Computers, SBS Technologies and various other companies on a product-by-product basis. Our SCSI products compete with LSI, Adaptec, Qlogic and Sun Microsystems, Inc. Our TOE products compete with Qlogic and Adaptec. To compete and differentiate ourselves in our markets, we emphasize the functionality, engineering support, quality and price of our product in relation to the products of our competitors, as well as our ability to customize our products to meet the customers' specific application needs. Additionally, we compete with the internal engineering resources of our customers. Typically, as our customers become successful with their products, they seek to reduce costs and integrate functions. To compete with the internal engineering resources of our customers, we position ourselves as an extension of our customers' engineering teams, focusing on satisfying their price/performance and time-to-market challenges through product innovation, technological expertise, and comprehensive support. By doing so, we emphasize the advantages and efficiencies of outsourcing embedded hardware and software, and keeping internal engineering resources focused on their core competencies and value-added services. Intellectual Property We believe that innovation in product engineering, sales, marketing, support, and customer relations, and protection of this proprietary technology and knowledge impacts our future success. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights in our products. We typically enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, strategic partners, channel partners and suppliers, and enforce strict limitations and access to our proprietary information. Backlog On October 31, 2005, we had a sales backlog of product orders of approximately $1.2 million, compared to a sales backlog of product orders of approximately $2.5 million, including $1.0 million in orders from the Hewlett Packard Company (HP), as of October 31, 2004. Because customer purchase orders are subject to changes in customer delivery schedules, cancellation, or price changes, our backlog as of any particular date may not be representative of actual sales for any succeeding fiscal period. We do not anticipate any problems in fulfilling our current backlog. Employees Our employees represent one of our most valuable assets. We believe that our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical (particularly engineering), marketing and management personnel. We promote employee-focused programs designed to foster a positive and productive work environment, including specialized training/development, in-house seminars, and team-building activities. -14- On December 31, 2005, we had 37 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are positive. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Related to Our Business We may not realize any anticipated benefits from the acquisition of PyX. We acquired PyX on July 26, 2005. While we believe that our opportunities are greater than our opportunities prior to the acquisition and that we will be able to create substantially more stockholder value, there is substantial risk that the synergies and benefits sought in the acquisition might not be fully achieved. There is no assurance that PyX's technology can be successfully integrated into our existing product platforms or that our financial results will meet or exceed the financial results that would have been achieved absent the acquisition. As a result, our operations and financial results may suffer and the market price of our common stock may decline. If PyX's products contain undetected errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses and experience product returns and lost sales. The iSCSI software products developed by PyX are highly technical and complex. While PyX's products have been tested, because of their nature, we can not be certain of their performance either as stand-alone products or when integrated with our existing product line. Because of PyX's short operating history, we have little information on the performance of its products. There can be no assurance that defects or errors may not arise or be discovered in the future. Any defects or errors in PyX's products discovered in the future could result in a loss of customers or decrease in net revenue and market share. We depend upon a small number of OEM customers. The loss of any of these customers, or their failure to sell their products, could limit our ability to generate revenues. In particular, the HP ceased to be a significant customer of ours in the first quarter of fiscal 2005, and our success depends on being able to replace net sales previously attributable to HP with sales to other customers. In fiscal 2005 and 2004, sales of VME products to HP accounted for 13% and 45%, respectively, of our net sales. We made our final shipment for $1.0 million of our VME products to HP in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Our future success depends on being able to replace net sales previously attributable to HP with sales to other customers. We can provide no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining new orders from existing or new customers sufficient to replace or exceed the net sales previously attributable to HP or that we will become a qualified supplier with new OEM customers or remain a qualified supplier with existing OEM customers. -15- Orders by our OEM customers are affected by factors such as new product introductions, product life cycles, inventory levels, manufacturing strategies, contract awards, competitive conditions and general economic conditions. Our sales to any single OEM customer are also subject to significant variability from quarter to quarter. Such fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A significant reduction in orders from any of our OEM customers, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. A failure to collect outstanding accounts receivable from any of our OEM customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our future capital needs may exceed our ability to raise capital. The development and marketing of our products is capital-intensive. We believe that our existing cash balances and our anticipated cash flow from operations will satisfy our working capital needs for the foreseeable future. Declines in our sales or a failure to keep expenses in line with revenues could require us to seek additional financing in fiscal 2006. In addition, should we experience a significant growth in customer orders or wish to make strategic acquisitions of a business or assets, we may be required to seek additional capital to meet our working capital needs. There can be no assurance that additional financing, if required, will be available on reasonable terms or at all. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of such securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Because of our dependence on single suppliers for some components, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of such components, or we may be required to pay higher prices or to purchase components of lesser quality. The chip sets used in some of our products are currently available only from a single supplier. If these suppliers discontinue or upgrade some of the components used in our products, we could be required to redesign a product to incorporate newer or alternative technology. The inability to obtain sufficient key components as required, or to develop alternative sources if and as required in the future, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments or margins that, in turn, would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If enough components are unavailable, we may have to pay a premium in order to meet customer demand. Paying premiums for parts, building inventories of scarce parts and obsolescence of existing inventories could lower or eliminate our profit margin, reduce our cash flow and otherwise harm our business. To offset potential component shortages, we have in the past, and may in the future, carry an inventory of these components. As a result, our inventory of components parts may become obsolete and may result in write-downs. If we fail to develop and produce new products, we may lose sales and our reputation may be harmed. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to introduce new products and features to meet and adapt to changing customer requirements and emerging technologies such as VoIP, third generation wireless services (3G Wireless), SATA, iSCSI, SAS, Gigabit Ethernet, 10G and TOE. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, developing, manufacturing and marketing new products or enhancing our existing products. In addition, there can be no assurance that services, products or technologies developed by others will not render our products obsolete. -16- We have focused a significant portion of our research and development, marketing and sales efforts on VoIP, HighWire, WAN and LAN adapters, iSCSI and TOE products. The success of these products is dependent on several factors, including timely completion of new product designs, achievement of acceptable manufacturing quality and yields, introduction of competitive products by other companies, market acceptance of our products and our ability to sell our products. If the VoIP, iSCSI, HighWire, TOE and adapter products or other new products developed by us do not gain market acceptance, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be materially adversely affected. Our iSCSI and VoIP products will require a substantial product development investment by us and we may not realize any return on our investment. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process. As we integrate the PyX iSCSI products into our product line, our customers may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new products and enhancements, both to our existing product line as well as to the PyX and VoIP products. Development costs and expenses are incurred before we generate any net revenue from sales of the products resulting from these efforts. We expect to incur substantial research and development expenses relating to the iSCSI and VoIP product lines, which could have a negative impact on our earnings in future periods. The storage and embedded products market is intensely competitive, and our failure to compete effectively could reduce our revenues and margins. We compete directly with traditional vendors of storage software and hardware devices, including Fibre Channel SAN products, open source "free" software, TOE and application-specific storage solutions. We compete with communications suppliers of routers, switches, gateways, network interface cards and other products that connect to the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) and the Internet. In the future, we expect competition from companies offering client/server access solutions based on emerging technologies such as Fibre Channel, switched digital telephone services, iSCSI, SAS, TOE, VoIP and other technologies. In addition, we may encounter increased competition from operating system and network operating system vendors to the extent that such vendors include full communications and storage capabilities in their products. We may also encounter future competition from telephony service providers (such as AT&T or the regional Bell operating companies) and storage product providers (such as EMC Corporation, Network Appliance, Inc. and Qlogic Corporation). Increased competition with respect to any of our products could result in price reductions and loss of market share, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or will be able to compete successfully with new competitors. -17- We depend on our key personnel. If we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional qualified personnel as needed, our business will be harmed. We are highly dependent on the technical, management, marketing and sales skills of a limited number of key employees. We do not have employment agreements with, or life insurance on the lives of, any of our key employees. The loss of the services of any key employees could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly talented personnel to the extent our business grows. Competition for qualified personnel in the networking and software industries, and in the San Francisco Bay Area, is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our key employees or that we can attract or retain additional skilled personnel as required. We may be unable to protect our software, which could reduce any competitive advantage we have. Although we believe that our future success will depend primarily on continuing innovation, sales, marketing and technical expertise and the quality of product support and customer relations, we must also protect the proprietary technology contained in our products. We do not currently hold any patents and rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret laws and contractual provisions to establish and protect proprietary rights in our products. There can be no assurance that steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to deter misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology. Although we believe that our products and technology do not infringe on the proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. Risks Associated with Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price at which you purchased such shares. The trading price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in operating results, the failure to meet analyst estimates, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, general conditions in the computer and communications industries and other events or factors. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility in recent years. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market price of the securities of many high technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has historically had relatively small trading volumes. As a result, small transactions in our common stock can have a disproportionately large impact on the quoted price of our common stock. If we continue to experiences losses we could experience difficulty meeting our business plan, and our stock price could be negatively affected. We may experience operating losses and negative cash flow from operations as we develop and market the iSCSI software solution acquired in the PyX acquisition. Any failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Historically, PyX has not been profitable on a quarterly or annual basis, and we expect that the combined company will incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will continue to -18- incur significant product development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses. As a result, we will need to generate significant quarterly revenues if we are to achieve and maintain profitability. A substantial failure to achieve profitability could make it difficult or impossible for us to grow our business. Our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. Any failure to significantly increase revenues would also harm our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. If we do achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Future sales of our common stock, including shares issued in the PyX acquisition and the private placement could cause the market price for our common stock to significantly decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to fall, and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital through public offerings or other sales of our capital stock. In addition, the public perception that these sales might occur could have the same undesirable effects. The PyX shareholders who received shares of our common stock in the PyX acquisition entered into agreements that provide, in part, that, with respect to 95% of the shares of our common stock that the shareholder received in connection with the acquisition, the shareholder will not sell these shares until one year after the acquisition is completed. We registered for the resale all of the shares that we issued in the merger and private placement effective November 14, 2005. The purchasers in the private placement are not subject to any lockup with respect to the shares they purchased in the private placement. As a result, sales under the registration statement will include a very substantial number of shares and percentage of our common stock. Holders of approximately 46.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock will have the right to sell their shares pursuant to these registration rights and holders of an additional approximately 5.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, assuming no further issuances of shares of our common stock, will have the right to sell their shares after the one year period has passed. Such free transferability could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock has been at risk for delisting from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. If it is delisted, our stock price and your liquidity may be impacted. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. Nasdaq has requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. These requirements include maintaining a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 and minimum stockholders' equity of $2.5 million. Our stockholders' equity as of October 31, 2005 was approximately $17.3 million and our closing bid price on October 31, 2005 was $2.60. Although we currently meet all of the minimum continued listing requirements for the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, should our stock price decline, our common stock could be subject to potential delisting from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market. If we fail to maintain the standards necessary to be quoted on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market and our common stock is delisted, trading in our common stock would be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board as long as we continue to file reports required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The OTC Bulletin Board is generally considered to be a less efficient market than the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, and our stock price, as well as the liquidity of our common stock, may be adversely impacted as a result. -19- Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Furthermore, certain other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. 