ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Related To Our Business We may require additional capital to fund our operations, which capital may not be available on commercially attractive terms or at all. Although we recently raised over $11 million in a public offering, we may in the future require sources of capital in addition to cash on hand to continue operations and to implement our business plan. We project that we have sufficient liquid assets to continue operating for at least the next twelve months. However, if our operations do not become cash flow positive, we will be forced to seek credit line facilities from financial institutions, additional private equity investment, or debt arrangements. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in obtaining such additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available when needed on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plan, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, if funds are available, the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity could dilute the value of shares of our common stock and cause the market price to fall, and the issuance of debt securities could impose restrictive covenants that could impair our ability to engage in certain business transactions. We have never been profitable and we anticipate significant additional losses in the future. Neonode Inc. was formed in 1997 and reconstituted in 2006 as a holding company, owning and operating Neonode AB, which had been formed in 2004. We had been primarily engaged in the business of developing and selling mobile phones. Following the liquidation of Neonode AB, we implemented a new strategy for our business. We have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in the early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. We were not successful in selling mobile phones and have refocused our business on licensing our touchscreen technology. We may not be successful in growing our technology licensing business. Our success will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: · the growth of touchscreen interface usage; · the efforts and success of our OEM and other customers; 13 · the level of competition faced by us; and · our ability to meet customer demand for engineering support, new technology and ongoing service. Our limited operating history and the emerging nature of our market, together with the other risk factors set forth in this report, make prediction of our future operating results difficult. There can also be no assurance that we will ever achieve significant revenues or profitability or, if significant revenues and profitability are achieved, that they could be sustained. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. We are subject to the following factors, among others, that may negatively affect our operating results: • the announcement or introduction of new products or technologies by our competitors; • our ability to upgrade and develop our products and infrastructure to accommodate growth; • our ability to attract and retain key personnel in a timely and cost effective manner; • technical difficulties; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business, operations, and infrastructure; and • general economic conditions as well as economic conditions specific to the hand-held device and/or touchscreen industry. As a result of our limited operating history and the nature of the markets in which we compete, it is extremely difficult for us to forecast accurately. We have based our current and future expense levels largely on our investment plans and estimates of future events, although certain of our expense levels are, to a large extent, fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues relative to our planned expenditures would have an immediate adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Due to the foregoing factors, our revenues and operating results are and will remain difficult to forecast. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We operate in a highly competitive, rapidly evolving environment, and our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, technology, and services that our customers and end users choose to buy. If we are unsuccessful at developing and introducing new products, technology, and services that are appealing to our customers and end users with acceptable quality, prices and terms, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The development of new products, technology, and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. If we fail to anticipate our end users’ needs or technological trends accurately or if we are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost effective and timely fashion, we will be unable to introduce new products and services into the market or successfully compete with other providers. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into new or existing products, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, inability to deliver new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and potentially unfamiliar sales and support environments. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features, or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 14 We are dependent on the ability of our customers to design, manufacture and sell their products that incorporate our touchscreen technologies. Our products and technologies are licensed to other companies which must be successful in designing, manufacturing and selling the products that incorporate our technologies. If our customers are not able to design, manufacture or sell their products, or are delayed in producing their products, our revenues, profitability, and liquidity, as well as our brand image, may be adversely affected. We must significantly enhance our sales and product development organizations. We will need to improve the effectiveness and breadth of our sales efforts in order to increase market awareness and sales of our technologies, especially as we expand into new market segments. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense, and we may not be able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel we are targeting. Likewise, our efforts to improve and refine our products require skilled engineers and programmers. Competition for professionals capable of expanding our research and development efforts is intense due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills. If we are unable to identify, hire, or retain qualified sales, marketing, and technical personnel, our ability to achieve future revenue may be adversely affected. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that expansion of our organization will be required to address internal growth to handle licensing and research activities. This expansion may place a significant strain on management, operational, and financial resources. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we must both improve our existing operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls, and implement new systems, procedures, and controls. We must also expand our finance, administrative, and operations staff. Our current personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not adequately support future operations. Management may be unable to hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage the necessary personnel, or to identify, manage and exploit existing and potential strategic relationships and market opportunities. We are dependent on the services of our key personnel. We are dependent on our current management for the foreseeable future. The loss of the services of any member of management could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and future prospects. We are dependent on a limited number of customers. Our accounts receivable as of December 31, 2011 was due from five customers. Our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 was earned from seven customers. Our customers are located in the U.S., Europe and Asia. Customers which accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011 are as follows: · Amazon accounted for 40% · Barnes & Noble accounted for 26% · Sony Corporation accounted for 21% · KOBO Inc. accounted for 11% 15 In the future, the loss of any of these customers, a reduction in net revenues to any of these customers for any reason, or a failure of any of these customers to fulfill their financial or other obligations due to us could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and future revenue stream. If third parties infringe our intellectual property or if we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our intellectual property, particularly our patents, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. Our pending patent and trademark applications for registration may not be allowed, or others may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks, including patent or trademark applications or registrations. Even if our patents or trademark registrations are issued and maintained, these patents or trademarks may not be of adequate scope or benefit to us or may be held invalid and unenforceable against third parties. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Effective policing of the unauthorized use of our products or intellectual property is difficult and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is not only expensive, but time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert attention of our management from operating the business. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market before they do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing laws, contractual provisions and remedies afford only limited protection. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to, among other things, the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in asserting our intellectual property rights. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third party copying or use. The unauthorized use of our technology or of our proprietary information by competitors could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. We have an international presence in countries whose laws may not provide protection of our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property. As part of our business strategy, we target customers and relationships with suppliers and original equipment manufacturers in countries with large populations and propensities for adopting new technologies. However, many of these countries do not address misappropriation of intellectual property nor deter others from developing similar, competing technologies or intellectual property. Effective protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. In particular, the laws of some foreign countries in which we do business may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from infringing our intellectual property rights, which could reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business. 16 Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause unexpected fluctuations in and adversely affect our reported results of operations. Any change in financial accounting standards or practices that cause a change in the methodology or procedures by which we track, calculate, record and report our results of operations or financial condition or both could cause fluctuations in, and adversely affect, our reported results of operations and cause our historical financial information not to be reliable as an indicator of future results. Further deterioration in the state of the global economy and financial market conditions could adversely affect our ability to conduct business and our results of operations. Global economic and financial market conditions, including severe disruptions in the credit markets and the continuing impact of the recent global economic recession may materially impact our customers and other parties with whom we do business. Continued or further deterioration in general economic and financial market conditions could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, the impact of these volatile and negative conditions may include decreased demand for our products and services, decreased ability to accurately forecast future product trends and demand, and a negative impact on our ability to timely collect receivables from our customers. The foregoing economic conditions may lead to increased levels of bankruptcies, restructurings, and liquidations for our customers, scaling back of research and development expenditures, delays in planned projects, and shifts in business strategies for many of our customers. Such events could, in turn, adversely affect our business through loss of revenues. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond our control could negatively impact consumer confidence, which could harm our operating results. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond our control could have an adverse impact on the United States, Europe and the world economy in general, and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock If we continue to experience losses, we could experience difficulty meeting our business plan and our stock price could be negatively affected. If we are unable to gain market acceptance of our touchscreen technologies, we will experience continuing operating losses and negative cash flow from our operations. Any failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that we will continue to incur product development, sales and marketing, and administrative expenses. As a result, we will need to generate significant quarterly revenues if we are to achieve and maintain profitability. A substantial failure to achieve profitability could make it difficult or impossible for us to grow our business. Our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. Any failure to significantly increase revenues would also harm our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. If we do achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of Preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of Preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Furthermore, certain other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. 17 Our stock price has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for those shares due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects, and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; · our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the SEC; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; · developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · our inability to raise additional capital as needed; · concern as to the efficacy of our products; · changes in financial markets or general economic conditions; · sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and · changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies, or our industry generally. Future sales of our common stock by our stockholders could negatively affect our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our stockholders, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. All of the shares of common stock sold in our recent public offering are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and thus the price of our common stock may decline. Future sales of our common stock by us could adversely affect its price, and our future capital-raising activities could involve the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute your investment and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our executive management and other key personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to the market price of our common stock. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We will have broad discretion in using the net proceeds from our recent public offering, and the benefits from our use of the proceeds may not meet investors' expectations. Our management will have broad discretion over the allocation of our net proceeds from our recent public offering as well as over the timing of their use without stockholder approval. We have not yet determined how the net proceeds from our recent public offering will be used, other than for working capital and other general corporate purposes. As a result, investors will be relying upon management's judgment with only limited information about our specific intentions for the use of our net proceeds from this offering. Our failure to apply these proceeds effectively could cause our business to suffer. 18 If securities analysts do not publish research or if securities analysts or other third parties publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that securities analysts and other third parties choose to publish about us. We do not control these analysts or other third parties. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our common stock or if one or more securities analysts or other third parties publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us or cease publishing reports about us. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board Market. Our stock price and liquidity may continue to be impacted. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board market, which is generally considered a less efficient and less prestigious market than other markets, such as the Nasdaq Capital Market. The price and liquidity of our stock may continue to be adversely affected as a result of our common stock trading on the OTC Bulletin Board Market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 