risk factors: Risks Related To Our Business Our independent registered public accounting firm issued a going concern opinion on our financial statements, questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. Due to our need to raise additional financing to fund our operations and satisfy obligations as they become due, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our December 31, 2007 consolidated financial statements regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This may have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock and adversely impact our ability to obtain necessary financing. We will require additional capital in the future to fund our operations, which capital may not be available on commercially attractive terms or at all. We will require sources of capital in addition to cash on hand to continue operations and to implement our strategy. In March 2008 we closed an aggregate of $4.5 million of private equity financing. If our operations do not become cash flow positive as projected we will be forced to seek credit line facilities from financial institutions, additional private equity investment or debt arrangements. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in obtaining such additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plans and it could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if funds are available, the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity could dilute the value of shares of our common stock and cause the market price to fall, and the issuance of debt securities could impose restrictive covenants that could impair our ability to engage in certain business transactions. We have never been profitable and we anticipate significant additional losses in the future. Neonode was formed in 2006 as a holding company owning and operating Neonode AB, which was formed in 2004 and has been primarily engaged in the business of developing and selling mobile phones. We have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in the early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. Our success will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: · the growth of mobile telephone usage; · the efforts of our marketing partners; · the level of competition faced by us; and · our ability to meet customer demand for products and ongoing service. In addition, we have experienced substantial net losses in each fiscal period since our inception. These net losses resulted from a lack of substantial revenues and the significant costs incurred in the development of our products and infrastructure. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to raise additional funds and implement our business plan. Our limited operating history and the emerging nature of our market, together with the other risk factors set forth in this report, make prediction of our future operating results difficult. There can also be no assurance that we will ever achieve significant revenues or profitability or, if significant revenues and profitability are achieved, that they could be sustained. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We operate in a highly competitive, rapidly evolving environment, and our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and services that our customers and end users choose to buy. If we are unsuccessful at developing and introducing new products and services that are appealing to our customers and end users with acceptable quality, prices and terms, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The development of new products and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. If we fail to anticipate our end users’ needs or technological trends accurately or we are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost effective and timely fashion, we will be unable to introduce new products and services into the market or successfully compete with other providers. 8 As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into new or existing products, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of older product inventories, inability to deliver sufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and a potentially different sales and support environment. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on third parties to manufacture and supply our products and components of our products. Our products are built by a limited number of independent manufacturers. Although we provide manufacturers with key performance specifications for the phones, these manufacturers could: · manufacture phones with defects that fail to perform to our specifications; · fail to meet delivery schedules; or · fail to properly service phones or honor warranties. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and services, which, in turn, could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and liquidity, as well as our brand image. We may become highly dependent on wireless carriers for the success of our products. Our business strategy includes significant efforts to establish relationships with international wireless carriers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in establishing new relationships, or maintaining such relationships, with wireless carriers or that these wireless carriers will act in a manner that will promote the success of our multimedia phone products. Factors that are largely within the control of wireless carriers, but which are important to the success of our multimedia phone products, include: · testing of our products on wireless carriers’ networks; · quality and coverage area of wireless voice and data services offered by the wireless carriers; · the degree to which wireless carriers facilitate the introduction of and actively market, advertise, promote, distribute and resell our multimedia phone products; · the extent to which wireless carriers require specific hardware and software features on our multimedia phone to be used on their networks; · timely build out of advanced wireless carrier networks that enhance the user experience for data centric services through higher speed and other functionality; · contractual terms and conditions imposed on them by wireless carriers that, in some circumstances, could limit our ability to make similar products available through competitive carriers in some market segments; · wireless carriers’ pricing requirements and subsidy programs; and · pricing and other terms and conditions of voice and data rate plans that the wireless carriers offer for use with our multimedia phone products. For example, flat data rate pricing plans offered by some wireless carriers may represent some risk to our relationship with such carriers. While flat data pricing helps customer adoption of the data services offered by carriers and therefore highlights the advantages of the data applications of its products, such plans may not allow its multimedia phones to contribute as much average revenue per user to wireless carriers as when they are priced by usage, and therefore reduces our differentiation from other, non-data devices in the view of the carriers. In addition, if wireless carriers charge higher rates than consumers are willing to pay, the acceptance of our wireless solutions could be less than anticipated and our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. Wireless carriers have substantial bargaining power as we enter into agreements with them. They may require contract terms that are difficult for us to satisfy, which could result in higher costs to complete certification requirements and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we may not have agreements with some of the wireless carriers with whom they will do business and, in some cases, the agreements may be with third-party distributors and may not pass through rights to us or provide us with recourse or contact with the carrier. The absence of agreements means that, with little or no notice, these wireless carriers could refuse to continue to purchase all or some of our products or change the terms under which they purchase our products. If these wireless carriers were to stop purchasing our products, we may be unable to replace the lost sales channel on a timely basis and our results of operations could be harmed. 9 Wireless carriers could also significantly affect our ability to develop and launch products for use on their wireless networks. If we fail to address the needs of wireless carriers, identify new product and service opportunities or modify or improve our multimedia phone products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or wireless carrier requirements, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. If we fail to timely develop products that meet carrier product planning cycles or fail to deliver sufficient quantities of products in a timely manner to wireless carriers, those carriers may choose to emphasize similar products from our competitors and thereby reduce their focus on its products which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Carriers, who control most of the distribution and sale of, and virtually all of the access for, multimedia phone products could commoditize multimedia phones, thereby reducing the average selling prices and margins for our products which would have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if carriers move away from subsidizing the purchase of mobile phone products, this could significantly reduce the sales or growth rate of sales of mobile phone products. This could have an adverse impact on our business, revenues and results of operations. As we build strategic relationships with wireless carriers, we may be exposed to significant fluctuations in revenue for our multimedia phone products. Because of their large sales channels, wireless carriers may purchase large quantities of our products prior to launch so that the products are widely available. Reorders of products may fluctuate quarter to quarter, depending on end-customer demand and inventory levels required by the carriers. As we develop new strategic relationships and launch new products with wireless carriers, our revenue could be subject to significant fluctuation based on the timing of carrier product launches, carrier inventory requirements, marketing efforts and our ability to forecast and satisfy carrier and end-customer demand. We do not have a history of selling to wireless carriers and as a result do not have do not have a basis for estimating what the potential fluctuations in our revenue will be from the sale of our multimedia phones. The mobile communications industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources to engage in product development, manufacturing, distribution and marketing. The mobile communications industry, in which we are engaged, is a highly competitive business with companies of all sizes engaged in business in all areas of the world, including companies with far greater resources than we have. There can be no assurance that other competitors, with greater resources and business connections, will not compete successfully against us in the future. Our competitors may adopt new technologies that reduce the demand for our products or render our technologies obsolete, which may have a material adverse effect on the cost structure and competitiveness of our products, possibly resulting in a negative effect on our revenues, profitability or liquidity. Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Because we sell our products worldwide and most of the facilities where our devices are manufactured, distributed and supported are located outside the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as: · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · the impact of recessions in the global economy or in specific sub economies; · changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets; · changes in international relations; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · changes in tax laws; · compliance with a wide variety of laws and regulations which may have civil and/or criminal consequences for them and our officers and directors who they indemnify; · difficulty in managing widespread sales operations; and · difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce in compliance with diverse local laws and customs. 10 In addition, we are subject to changes in demand for our products resulting from exchange rate fluctuations that make our products relatively more or less expensive in international markets. If exchange rate fluctuations occur, our business and results of operations could be harmed by decreases in demand for our products or reductions in margins. While we sell our products worldwide, one component of our strategy is to expand our sales efforts in countries with large populations and propensities for adopting new technologies. We have limited experience with sales and marketing in some of these countries. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in all of our targeted international markets. If our international efforts are not successful, our business growth and results of operations could be harmed. We must significantly enhance our sales and product development organizations. We will need to improve the effectiveness and breadth of our sales operations in order to increase market awareness and sales of our products, especially as we expand into new markets. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense, and we may not be able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel we are targeting. Likewise, our efforts to improve and refine our products require skilled engineers and programmers. Competition for professionals capable of expanding our research and development organization is intense due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills. If we are unable to identify, hire or retain qualified sales, marketing and technical personnel, our ability to achieve future revenue may be adversely affected. We are dependent on the services of our key personnel. We are dependent on our current management for the foreseeable future. The loss of the services of any member of management could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and prospects. If third parties infringe our intellectual property or if we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our intellectual property, particularly our patents, may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. Our pending patent and trademark applications for registration may not be allowed, or others may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks, including patent or trademark applications or registrations. Even if our patents or trademark registrations are issued and maintained, these patents or trademarks may not be of adequate scope or benefit to them or may be held invalid and unenforceable against third parties. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Effective policing of the unauthorized use of our products or intellectual property is difficult and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is not only expensive, but time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert attention of our management from operating the business. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market before they do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing laws, contractual provisions and remedies afford only limited protection. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to, among other things, the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in asserting intellectual property claims. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third party copying or use. The unauthorized use of our technology or of our proprietary information by competitors could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. We have an international presence in countries whose laws may not provide protection of our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property. 11 As part of our business strategy, we target customers and relationships with suppliers and original distribution manufacturers in countries with large populations and propensities for adopting new technologies. However, many of these countries do not address misappropriation of intellectual property or deter others from developing similar, competing technologies or intellectual property. Effective protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. In particular, the laws of some foreign countries in which we do business may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from infringing our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business. If we do not correctly forecast demand for our products, we could have costly excess production or inventories or we may not be able to secure sufficient or cost effective quantities of our products or production materials, and our revenues, cost of revenues and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The demand for our products depends on many factors, including pricing and channel inventory levels, and is difficult to forecast due in part to variations in economic conditions, changes in consumer and enterprise preferences, relatively short product life cycles, changes in competition, seasonality and reliance on key sales channel partners. It is particularly difficult to forecast demand by individual variations of the product, such as the color of the casing or size of memory. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand, the timing and disclosure of new product releases or the timing of key sales orders could result in costly excess production or inventories or the inability to secure sufficient, cost-effective quantities of our products or production materials. This could adversely impact our revenues, cost of revenues and financial condition. We rely on third parties to sell and distribute our products and we rely on their information to manage our business. Disruption of our relationship with these channel partners, changes in their business practices, their failure to provide timely and accurate information or conflicts among its channels of distribution could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The distributors, wireless carriers, retailers and resellers who sell or distribute our products also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our sales channel partners more favorable terms or have more products available to meet their needs or utilize the leverage of broader product lines sold through the channel, those wireless carriers, distributors, retailers and resellers may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In addition, certain of our sales channel partners could decide to de-emphasize the product categories that we offer in exchange for other product categories that they believe provide higher returns. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these sales channel partners or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. Because we intend to sell our products primarily to distributors, wireless carriers, retailers and resellers, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to product returns, either through the exercise of contractual return rights or as a result of its strategic interest in assisting them in balancing inventories. In addition, these sales channel partners could modify their business practices, such as inventory levels, or seek to modify their contractual terms, such as return rights or payment terms. Unexpected changes in product return requests, inventory levels, payment terms or other practices by these sales channel partners could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will rely on distributors, wireless carriers, retailers and resellers to provide us with timely and accurate information about their inventory levels as well as sell-through of products purchased from us. We will use this information as one of the factors in our forecasting process to plan future production and sales levels, which in turn will influence our public financial forecasts. We will also use this information as a factor in determining the levels of some of our financial reserves. If we do not receive this information on a timely and accurate basis, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Distributors, retailers and traditional resellers experience competition from Internet-based resellers that distribute directly to end-customers, and there is also competition among Internet-based resellers. We also sell our products directly to end-customers from our Neonode.com web site. These varied sales channels could cause conflict among our channels of distribution, which could harm our business, revenues and results of operations. If our multimedia phone products do not meet wireless carrier and governmental or regulatory certification requirements, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. 12 We are required to certify our multimedia phone products with governmental and regulatory agencies and with the wireless carriers for use on their networks. The certification process can be time consuming, could delay the offering of our products on carrier networks and affect our ability to timely deliver products to customers. As a result, carriers may choose to offer, or consumers may choose to buy, similar products from our competitors and thereby reduce their purchases of our products, which would have a negative impact on our products sales volumes, our revenues and our cost of revenues. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole source and some of which are our competitors, for certain components, software applications and elements of our technology, and our production or reputation could be harmed if these suppliers were unable or unwilling to meet our demand or technical requirements on a timely and/or a cost-effective basis. Our multimedia products contain software applications and components, including liquid crystal displays, touch panels, memory chips, microprocessors, cameras, radios and batteries, which are procured from a variety of suppliers, including some who are our competitors. The cost, quality and availability of software applications and components are essential to the successful production and sale of our device products. For example, media player applications are critical to the functionality of our multimedia phone devices. Some components, such as screens and related integrated circuits, digital signal processors, microprocessors, radio frequency components and other discrete components, come from sole source suppliers. Alternative sources are not always available or may be prohibitively expensive. In addition, even when we have multiple qualified suppliers, we may compete with other purchasers for allocation of scarce components. Some components come from companies with whom we competes in the multimedia phone device market. If suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our demand for components and if we are unable to obtain alternative sources or if the price for alternative sources is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our multimedia phone will be harmed. Shortages affect the timing and volume of production for some of our products as well as increasing our costs due to premium prices paid for those components. Some of our suppliers may be capacity-constrained due to high industry demand for some components and relatively long lead times to expand capacity. If we are unable to obtain key technologies from third parties on a timely basis and free from errors or defects, we may have to delay or cancel the release of certain products or features in our products or incur increased costs. We license third-party software for use in our products, including the operating systems. Our ability to release and sell our products, as well as our reputation, could be harmed if the third-party technologies are not delivered to customers in a timely manner, on acceptable business terms or contain errors or defects that are not discovered and fixed prior to release of our products and we are unable to obtain alternative technologies on a timely and cost effective basis to use in our products. As a result, our product shipments could be delayed, our offering of features could be reduced or we may need to divert our development resources from other business objectives, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Our product strategy is to base our products on software operating systems that are commercially available to competitors. Our multimedia phone is based on a commercially available version of Microsoft’s Windows CE. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this licensing agreement with Microsoft and that Microsoft will not grant similar rights to our competitors or that we will be able to sufficiently differentiate our multimedia phone from the multitude of other devices based on Windows CE. In addition, there is significant competition in the operating system software and services market, including proprietary operating systems such as Symbian and Palm OS, open source operating systems, such as Linux, other proprietary operating systems and other software technologies, such as Java and RIM’s licensed technology. This competition is being developed and promoted by competitors and potential competitors, some of which have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, such as Access, Motorola, Nokia, Sony-Ericsson and RIM. These competitors could provide additional or better functionality than we do or may be able to respond more rapidly than we can to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. Competitors in this market could devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services and the third-party developer community, which could attract the attention of influential user segments. If we are unable to continue to differentiate the operating systems that we include in our mobile computing devices, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. The market for multimedia phone products is volatile, and changing market conditions, or failure to adjust to changing market conditions, may adversely affect our revenues, results of operations and financial condition, particularly given our size, limited resources and lack of diversification. 13 We operate in the multimedia phone market which has seen significant growth during the past years. We cannot assure you that this significant growth in the sales of multimedia devices will continue. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in demand for our products, our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, as our products mature and face greater competition, we may experience pressure on our product pricing to preserve demand for our products, which would adversely affect our margins, results of operations and financial condition. This reliance on the success of and trends in our industry is compounded by the size of our organization and our focus on multimedia phones. These factors also make us more dependent on investments of our limited resources. For example, Neonode faces many resource allocation decisions, such as: where to focus our research and development, geographic sales and marketing and partnering efforts; which aspects of our business to outsource; and which operating systems and email solutions to support. Given the size and undiversified nature of our organization, any error in investment strategy could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products are subject to increasingly stringent laws, standards and other regulatory requirements, and the costs of compliance or failure to comply may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products must comply with a variety of laws, standards and other requirements governing, among other things, safety, materials usage, packaging and environmental impacts and must obtain regulatory approvals and satisfy other regulatory concerns in the various jurisdictions where our products are sold. Many of our products must meet standards governing, among other things, interference with other electronic equipment and human exposure to electromagnetic radiation. Failure to comply with such requirements can subject us to liability, additional costs and reputational harm and in severe cases prevent us from selling our products in certain jurisdictions. For example, many of our products are subject to laws and regulations that restrict the use of lead and other substances and require producers of electrical and electronic equipment to assume responsibility for collecting, treating, recycling and disposing of our products when they have reached the end of their useful life. In Europe, substance restrictions began to apply to the products sold after July 1, 2006, when new recycling, labeling, financing and related requirements came into effect. Failure to comply with applicable environmental requirements can result in fines, civil or criminal sanctions and third-party claims. If products we sell in Europe are found to contain more than the permitted percentage of lead or another listed substance, it is possible that we could be forced to recall the products, which could lead to substantial replacement costs, contract damage claims from customers, and reputational harm. We expect similar requirements in the United States, China and other parts of the world. As a result of these new European requirements and anticipated developments elsewhere, we are facing increasingly complex procurement and design challenges, which, among other things, require us to incur additional costs identifying suppliers and contract manufacturers who can provide, and otherwise obtain, compliant materials, parts and end products and re-designing products so that they comply with these and the many other requirements applicable to them. Allegations of health risks associated with electromagnetic fields and wireless communications devices, and the lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. There has been public speculation about possible health risks to individuals from exposure to electromagnetic fields, or radio signals, from base stations and from the use of mobile devices. While a substantial amount of scientific research by various independent research bodies has indicated that these radio signals, at levels within the limits prescribed by public health authority standards and recommendations, present no evidence of adverse effect to human health, we cannot assure you that future studies, regardless of their scientific basis, will not suggest a link between electromagnetic fields and adverse health effects. Government agencies, international health organizations and other scientific bodies are currently conducting research into these issues. In addition, other mobile device companies have been named in individual plaintiff and class action lawsuits alleging that radio emissions from mobile phones have caused or contributed to brain tumors and the use of mobile phones pose a health risk. Although our products are certified as meeting applicable public health authority safety standards and recommendations, even a perceived risk of adverse health effects from wireless communications devices could adversely impact use of wireless communications devices or subject them to costly litigation and could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause unexpected fluctuations in and adversely affect our reported results of operations. 14 Any change in financial accounting standards or practices that cause a change in the methodology or procedures by which we track, calculate, record and report our results of operations or financial condition or both could cause fluctuations in and adversely affect our reported results of operations and cause our historical financial information to not be reliable as an indicator of future results. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond its control could negatively impact consumer confidence, which could harm our operating results. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond our control could have an adverse impact on the United States, Europe and world economy in general, and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock If we continue to experience losses, we could experience difficulty meeting our business plan and our stock price could be negatively affected. If we are unable to gain market acceptance of our mobile phone handsets, we will experience continuing operating losses and negative cash flow from our operations. Any failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that we will continue to incur product development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses. As a result, we will need to generate significant quarterly revenues if we are to achieve and maintain profitability. A substantial failure to achieve profitability could make it difficult or impossible for us to grow our business. Our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. Any failure to significantly increase revenues would also harm our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. If we do achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our common stock is at risk for delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market if we fail to maintain minimum listing maintenance standards. If it is delisted, our stock price and your liquidity may be impacted. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol NEON. In order for our common stock to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we must satisfy various listing maintenance standards established by Nasdaq. Among other things, as such requirements pertain to us, we are required to have stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million or market capitalization of $35 million and public float value of at least $1.0 million and our common stock must have a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Furthermore, certain other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Our stock price has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for those shares due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; · our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; 15 · the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; · developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · our inability to raise additional capital as needed; · concern as to the efficacy of our products; · changes in financial markets or general economic conditions; · sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and · changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect its price and our future capital-raising activities could involve the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute your investment and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our executive management and other key personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to the market price of our common stock. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. If registration rights that we have previously granted are exercised, then the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. We have agreed to register with the SEC the shares of common issued to former Neonode stockholders in connection with the merger and to participants in a private placement funding we completed on March 4, 2008. In addition, we have granted piggyback registration rights to the investors who participated in our March private placement. In the event these securities are registered with the SEC, they may be freely sold in the open market, subject to trading restrictions to which our insiders holding the shares may be subject from time to time. In the event that we fail to register such shares in a timely basis, we may have liabilities to such stockholders. We expect that we also will be required to register any securities sold in future private financings. The sale of a significant amount of shares in the open market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or become highly volatile. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 