ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors: Risks Related To Our Business Our independent registered public accounting firm issued a going concern opinion on our financial statements, questioning our ability to continue as a going concern. Due to our need to raise additional financing to fund our operations and satisfy obligations as they become due, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements regarding their substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. This may have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock and adversely impact our ability to obtain necessary financing. We will require additional capital to fund our operations, which capital may not be available on commercially attractive terms or at all. We will require sources of capital in addition to cash on hand to continue operations and to implement our business plan. We project that we have sufficient liquid assets to continue operating until the end of June 2009. We are currently evaluating different financing alternatives, including but not limited to selling shares of our common or Preferred stock or issuing notes that may be converted in shares of our common stock which could result in the issuance of additional shares. If our operations do not become cash flow positive, we will be forced to seek credit line facilities from financial institutions, additional private equity investment, or debt arrangements. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in obtaining such additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plan, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, if funds are available, the issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity could dilute the value of shares of our common stock and cause the market price to fall, and the issuance of debt securities could impose restrictive covenants that could impair our ability to engage in certain business transactions. The current worldwide financial and credit markets are difficult to access. The continuing crisis in the worldwide financial and credit markets make it extremely difficult to access sources of capital or borrowings. Credit line facilities from financial institutions, additional private equity investment, and debt arrangements may not be available to us for some time in the future. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in obtaining such additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be unable to adequately fund our business plans, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our wholly owned Swedish subsidiary, Neonode AB, is liquidating under the Swedish bankruptcy laws Neonode AB, our wholly owned Swedish subsidiary, filed a petition to liquidate under the Swedish bankruptcy laws on December 9, 2008. Neonode AB was our operating company that developed and marketed our touchscreen mobile phone, the N2. We no longer manufacture or sell mobile phone products and have implemented a new strategy for our business. While we have acquired Cypressen, we may not be successful in our transition from the manufacturing and selling of mobile phone products to the licensing of our touchscreen technologies to other companies. 13 We have never been profitable and we anticipate significant additional losses in the future. Neonode Inc. was formed in 1997 and reconstituted in 2006 as a holding company, owning and operating Neonode AB, which had been formed in 2004. We had been primarily engaged in the business of developing and selling mobile phones. Following the liquidation of Neonode AB, we have implemented a new strategy for our business. We have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in the early stages of development, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. We were not successful in selling mobile phones and have refocused our business on licensing our touchscreen technology. Although we secured one technology license agreement in July 2005, it was not the main focus of our business. We may not be successful in entering the technology licensing business. Our success will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: · the growth of touchscreen interface usage; · the efforts and success of our OEM and other customers; · the level of competition faced by us; and · our ability to meet customer demand for engineering support, new technology and ongoing service. In addition, we have experienced substantial net losses in each fiscal period since our inception. These net losses resulted from a lack of substantial revenues and the significant costs incurred in the development of our products and infrastructure. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to raise additional funds and implement our business plan. Our limited operating history and the emerging nature of our market, together with the other risk factors set forth in this report, make prediction of our future operating results difficult. There can also be no assurance that we will ever achieve significant revenues or profitability or, if significant revenues and profitability are achieved, that they could be sustained. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services successfully and in a cost effective and timely manner, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We operate in a highly competitive, rapidly evolving environment, and our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products, technology and services that our customers and end users choose to buy. If we are unsuccessful at developing and introducing new products, technology, and services that are appealing to our customers and end users with acceptable quality, prices and terms, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. The development of new products, technology, and services is very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. The development process is also lengthy and costly. If we fail to anticipate our end users’ needs or technological trends accurately or if we are unable to complete the development of products and services in a cost effective and timely fashion, we will be unable to introduce new products and services into the market or successfully compete with other providers. As we introduce new or enhanced products or integrate new technology into new or existing products, we face risks including, among other things, disruption in customers’ ordering patterns, excessive levels of older product inventories, inability to deliver sufficient supplies of new products to meet customers’ demand, possible product and technology defects, and potentially unfamiliar sales and support environments. Premature announcements or leaks of new products, features, or technologies may exacerbate some of these risks. Our failure to manage the transition to newer products or the integration of newer technology into new or existing products could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 14 We are dependent on the ability of our customers to design, manufacture and sell their products that incorporate our touchscreen technologies. Our products and technologies are licensed to other companies who must be successful in designing, manufacturing and selling the products that incorporate our technologies. If our customers are not able to design, manufacture or sell their products, or are delayed in producing their products, our revenues, profitability, and liquidity, as well as our brand image, may be adversely affected. We must significantly enhance our sales and product development organizations. We will need to improve the effectiveness and breadth of our sales operations in order to increase market awareness and sales of our technologies, especially as we expand into new market segments. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense, and we may not be able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel we are targeting. Likewise, our efforts to improve and refine our products require skilled engineers and programmers. Competition for professionals capable of expanding our research and development organization is intense due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills. If we are unable to identify, hire, or retain qualified sales, marketing, and technical personnel, our ability to achieve future revenue may be adversely affected. We are dependent on the services of our key personnel. We are dependent on our current management for the foreseeable future. The loss of the services of any member of management could have a materially adverse effect on our operations and prospects. If third parties infringe our intellectual property or if we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property, we may expend significant resources enforcing our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our intellectual property, particularly our patents, may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. If we fail to protect or to enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our results of operations. Our pending patent and trademark applications for registration may not be allowed, or others may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks, including patent or trademark applications or registrations. Even if our patents or trademark registrations are issued and maintained, these patents or trademarks may not be of adequate scope or benefit to us or may be held invalid and unenforceable against third parties. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. Effective policing of the unauthorized use of our products or intellectual property is difficult and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property litigation is not only expensive, but time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert attention of our management from operating the business. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market before they do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing laws, contractual provisions and remedies afford only limited protection. Intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to, among other things, the complexity of the technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in asserting intellectual property claims. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to protect our proprietary rights against unauthorized third party copying or use. The unauthorized use of our technology or of our proprietary information by competitors could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our products. 15 We have an international presence in countries whose laws may not provide protection of our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, which may make it more difficult for us to protect our intellectual property. As part of our business strategy, we target customers and relationships with suppliers and original equipment manufacturers in countries with large populations and propensities for adopting new technologies. However, many of these countries do not address misappropriation of intellectual property nor deter others from developing similar, competing technologies or intellectual property. Effective protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. In particular, the laws of some foreign countries in which we do business may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from infringing our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business. If we are unable to obtain key technologies from third parties on a timely basis, free from errors or defects, we may have to delay or cancel the release of certain products or features in our products or incur increased costs. We license third-party software for use in our products, including the operating systems. Our ability to release and sell our products, as well as our reputation, could be harmed if the third-party technologies are not delivered to customers in a timely manner, on acceptable business terms or if they contain errors or defects that are not discovered and fixed prior to release of our products and we are unable to obtain alternative technologies on a timely and cost effective basis to use in our products. As a result, our product shipments could be delayed, our offering of features could be reduced or we may need to divert our development resources from other business objectives, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause unexpected fluctuations in and adversely affect our reported results of operations. Any change in financial accounting standards or practices that cause a change in the methodology or procedures by which we track, calculate, record and report our results of operations or financial condition or both could cause fluctuations in and adversely affect our reported results of operations and cause our historical financial information to not be reliable as an indicator of future results. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond its control could negatively impact consumer confidence, which could harm our operating results. Wars, terrorist attacks or other threats beyond our control could have an adverse impact on the United States, Europe and world economy in general, and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock If we continue to experience losses, we could experience difficulty meeting our business plan and our stock price could be negatively affected. If we are unable to gain market acceptance of our touchscreen technologies, we will experience continuing operating losses and negative cash flow from our operations. Any failure to achieve or maintain profitability could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We anticipate that we will continue to incur product development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses. As a result, we will need to generate significant quarterly revenues if we are to achieve and maintain profitability. A substantial failure to achieve profitability could make it difficult or impossible for us to grow our business. Our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not generate significant revenues or achieve profitability. Any failure to significantly increase revenues would also harm our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. If we do achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 16 Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,000,000 shares of Preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any Preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of Preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Furthermore, certain other provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Our stock price has been volatile, and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of equity securities, which is unrelated to the financial performance of the companies issuing the securities. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you pay for those shares due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock caused by changes in our operating performance or prospects and other factors. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or future prospects; · our announcements or our competitors’ announcements of new products; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; · developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights or those of our competitors; · our inability to raise additional capital as needed; · concern as to the efficacy of our products; · changes in financial markets or general economic conditions; · sales of common stock by us or members of our management team; and · changes in stock market analyst recommendations or earnings estimates regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. Future sales of our common stock could adversely affect its price and our future capital-raising activities could involve the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute your investment and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. We may issue additional common stock in future financing transactions or as incentive compensation for our executive management and other key personnel, consultants and advisors. Issuing any equity securities would be dilutive to the equity interests represented by our then-outstanding shares of common stock. The market price for our common stock could decrease as the market takes into account the dilutive effect of any of these issuances. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to the market price of our common stock. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. 17 If our shareholders approve an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of authorized stock, then the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our Board of Directors has recommended that our shareholders approve an increase in the number of our authorized shares of common stock and the conversion rates for the Series A and Series B Preferred Stock that we issued as part of the refinancing and capital raising transactions that we entered into in December 2008, including the purchase of AB Cypressen nr 9863. If approved, the sale of a significant amount of shares in the open market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline or become highly volatile. Our common stock has been delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market and is currently traded on the OTC Bulletin Board Market. Our stock price and your liquidity may continue to be impacted. Our common stock is traded on the OTC Bulletin Board market which is generally considered a less efficient and less prestigious market than the Nasdaq Capital Market. The price and liquidity of our stock may continue to be adversely affected as a result of our common stock trading on the OTC Bulletin Market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 