Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks before buying shares of our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or we currently believe are not material could also adversely affect us. In any case, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 (the Annual Report) or incorporated herein by reference, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements. See also, “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” We have a history of losses and are uncertain as to our future profitability. We have had mixed success with regard to generating profits. While we were profitable in 2011, we incurred losses in 2008, 2009, and 2010. As a holding company our primary material assets are our ownership interests in our subsidiaries and in certain intellectual property rights. Consequently, our earnings derive from our subsidiaries and we depend on accumulated cash flows, distributions, and other inter-affiliate transfers from our subsidiaries. In view of our history of losses, operating costs, and all other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report, we may not be profitable in the future. Adverse macroeconomic conditions could magnify our customers’ current financial difficulties. We provide solutions that are resold by our customers – primarily value-added resellers whose customers are end users of our solutions and distributors who sell to other resellers of our solutions. Many of our customers operate on narrow margins and have been adversely affected by current overall economic conditions. Current economic conditions, while improving by some measures, continue to negatively impact demand for our customers’ solutions, reducing their demand for our solutions. Our customers may also face higher financing and operating costs. If current economic conditions do not improve or worsen, we may experience reduced revenue growth or a decrease in revenues and an increase in expenses, particularly in the form of bad debt on the part of our customers. All of these and other macroeconomic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our solutions and on our financial condition and operating results. We are also likely to experience greater pressure to reduce pricing and accept lower margins as we compete for customers subject to similar constraints on their pricing and margins. While our largest customers have been less affected by the current economy, if current adverse economic conditions persist or worsen, those customers could begin to be affected in a similar manner. In particular, we anticipate that continued sluggishness in the new housing sector will impair sales of our residential alarm monitoring solutions, since customers may purchase our security systems in connection with the purchase of a new residence.. If overall conditions worsen significantly, residential and commercial consumers may also decide to cancel wireless monitoring services in an effort to eliminate expenses viewed as discretionary or non-critical. Similarly, a reversal of the current uptick in vehicle sales would negatively impact sales of our vehicle tracking solutions. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We sell our products in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. Existing or new products and services that provide alternatives to our products and services could materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. As the markets for our products and services continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the M2M industry, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a further result of such competition, our new solutions could fail to gain market acceptance. Over the past several years, we have introduced a system enabling alarm signals to be transmitted digitally over cellular networks to central 11 monitoring stations; a cellular and GPS-based vehicle tracking solution; a satellite-based mobile asset monitoring and tracking solution; enhanced “back end” services and application development platforms. If these solutions and services, or any of our other existing solutions and services, do not perform as expected, or if our sales fall short of expectations, our business may be adversely affected. We operate in new and rapidly evolving markets where rapid technological change can quickly make hardware solutions and services, including those that we offer, obsolete. The markets we operate in are subject to rapid advances in technology, continuously evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements, and ever-shifting customer requirements. The M2M industry, in particular, is currently undergoing profound and rapid technological change. For example, most of the current subscribers we host connect to cellular networks using 2G-based devices. At least one major wireless carrier we utilize has signaled that it intends to fully transition to 3G-based architecture and therefore plans to cease supporting 2G-based devices in the near future. While we are beginning to market, sell, and support 3G-based devices and service, we may not be successful in transitioning all of our 2G-based subscribers to 3G and may lose customers as a result. The introduction of unanticipated new technologies by carriers, or the development of unanticipated new end applications by our customers, could render our current solutions obsolete. In that regard, we must discern current trends and anticipate an uncertain future. We must engage in product development efforts in advance of events that we cannot be sure will happen and time our production cycles and marketing activities accordingly. If our projections are incorrect, or if our product development efforts are not properly directed and timed, or if the demands of the marketplace shift in directions that we failed to anticipate, we may lose market share and revenues as a result. To remain competitive, we continue to support engineering and development efforts intended to bring new hardware solutions and services to the markets that we serve. However, those efforts are capital intensive. If we are unable to adequately fund our engineering and development efforts, we may not be successful in keeping our product line current with advances in technology and evolving customer requirements. Even with adequate funding, our development efforts may not yield any appreciable short-term results and may never result in hardware solutions and services that produce revenues over and above our cumulative development costs or that gain traction in the marketplace, causing us to either lose market share or fail to increase and forego increased sales and revenues as a result. We experience long sales cycles for some of our solutions. Certain of our product offerings are subject to long sales cycles in view of the need for testing of our hardware solutions and services in combination with our customers’ applications and third parties’ technologies, the need for regulatory approvals and export clearances, and the need to resolve other complex operational and technical issues. For example, in the government contracting arena in particular, longer sales cycles are reflective of the fact that government contracts can take months or longer to progress from a “request for proposal” to a finalized contract document pursuant to which we are able to sell a finished product or service. Terms and conditions of sale unique to the government sector may also affect when we are able to recognize revenues. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. For that reason, quarter-over-quarter comparisons of our financial results may not always be meaningful. We face substantial inventory and other asset risk in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk. We record a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrue necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. We also review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although we believe its provisions related to inventory, other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that we will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the industries in which we compete. Such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are contractually obligated to provide our manufacturers and network service providers with forecasts of our demand for components of our hardware solutions and network capacity. Specific terms and conditions vary by contract, however, if our forecasts do not result in the production of a quantity of units or network capacity sufficient to meet demand we may be subject to contractual penalties under some of our contracts with our customers. By contrast, overproduction of units based on forecasts that that overestimate demand could result in an accumulation of excess inventory that, under some of our contracts with our customers, would have to be managed at our expense thus adversely impacting our margins. 12 Excess inventory that becomes obsolete or that we are otherwise unable to sell would also be subject to write-offs resulting in adverse affects on our margins. Because our markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk that we will forecast incorrectly and order excess or insufficient amounts of components or products, or not fully utilize firm purchase commitments. Our financial condition and operating results could in the future be materially adversely affected by tour ability to manage our inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. If we achieve our growth goals, we may be unable to manage our resulting expansion. To the extent that we are successful in implementing our business strategy, we may experience periods of rapid expansion. In order to effectively manage growth, whether organic or through acquisitions, we will need to maintain and improve our operations and effectively train and manage our employees. Our expansion through acquisitions is contingent on successful management of those acquisitions, which will require proper integration of new employees, processes and procedures, and information systems, which can be both difficult and demanding from an operational, managerial, cultural, and human resources perspective. We must also expand the capacity of our sales and distribution networks in order to achieve continued growth in our existing and future markets. The failure to manage growth effectively in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on third party telecommunications service providers and other suppliers, including domestic and international cellular and satellite carriers and hardware manufacturers, the loss of any one of which could adversely impact our ability to supply or service our customers. Our long-term success depends on our ability to operate, manage, and maintain a reliable and cost effective network, as well as our ability to keep pace with changes in technology. The loss or disruption of key telecommunications infrastructure and key wireless and satellite-based network services supplied to us by carriers in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Europe, and other locations overseas would unfavorably impact our ability to adequately service our customers. If we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to transfer traffic to third party facilities, or if our third party carriers experience technical or logistical difficulties of their own, such as disruptions to their supply chains caused by weather events, natural disasters, or terrorism, and are unable to carry our network traffic, we may not achieve our revenue goals or otherwise be successful in growing our business. Given our dependence on cellular and satellite telecommunications service providers, risks specific or unique to their technologies, i.e., the loss or malfunction of a cell tower, a satellite, or a satellite ground station, should also be viewed as having the potential to impair our ability to provide services. We outsource our hardware manufacture to independent companies and do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to meet the demands of our customers. Any delay, interruption, or termination of our hardware manufacture could harm our ability to provide our solutions to our customers and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our hardware manufacture requires specialized know-how and capabilities possessed by a limited number of enterprises. Consequently, we are reliant on just a few manufacturers. If a key supplier experiences production problems, financial difficulties, or has difficulties with its supply chain as a result of severe weather, a natural disaster, terrorism, or other unforeseen event, we may not be able to obtain enough units to meet demand, which could result in failure to meet our contractual commitments to our customers, further causing us to lose sales and generate less revenue. We may experience quality problems from time to time, resulting in decreased sales and operating margins and the loss of customers. While we test our products and services, they may still have errors, defects, or bugs that we find only after commercial production has begun. In the past, we have experienced errors, defects, and bugs in connection with new solutions. Our customers may not make purchases from us, or may make fewer purchases, if they are concerned about such problems. Furthermore, correcting problems could require additional capital expenditures, result in increased design and development costs, and force us to divert resources from other efforts. Failure to remediate problems could result in lost revenue, harm our reputation, and lead to costly warranty or other legal claims against us by our customers, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Historically, the time required for us to correct problems has caused delays in product shipments and has resulted in lower than expected revenues. Interruptions in service or performance problems, no matter what their ultimate cause, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new customers. In addition, because most of our customers are businesses, any significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other losses to our customers. It may also be difficult to identify the source of the problem due to the overlay of our network with cellular, and/or satellite networks and our network’s reliance on those other networks. The occurrence of hardware or software errors, regardless of whether such errors are caused by our hardware solutions or services, or our internal facilities, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our solutions, and any necessary revisions may result in significant and additional expenses. Although we attempt to disclaim or limit our liability for hardware, system, and software failures in our agreements with our customers, a court may not enforce a limitation of liability, which could expose us to substantial losses. 13 If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. A natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could diminish our ability to provide service and hardware to our customers and our revenues may be impacted by weather patterns and climate change. Events such as severe storms, tornadoes, earthquakes, floods, solar flares, industrial accidents, and terrorist attacks including, without limitation, the actions of computer hackers, could damage or destroy both our primary and redundant facilities as well as the facilities and operations of third party cellular and satellite carriers and hardware suppliers we are reliant on, which could result in a significant disruption of our operations. Further, in the event of an emergency, the telecommunications networks that we rely upon may become capacity constrained or preempted by governmental authorities. We may also be unable, due to loss of personnel or the inability of personnel to access our facilities, to provide some services to our customers or maintain all of our operations for a period of time. With respect to our satellite-based mobile asset tracking solution in particular, sales may be influenced by weather patterns and climate change. For example, if government agencies and emergency responders anticipate relatively “mild” weather over one or more storm seasons on account of cyclical weather patterns or long-term climate change, they may buy fewer of our mobile asset tracking units for deployment in support of disaster response operations. The loss of a few key personnel could have an adverse affect on us in the short-term. Due to the specialized knowledge and skills each of our executive officers and other key employees possesses with respect to the development and maintenance and our operations, the loss of service of any of our officers. Any unplanned turnover could diminish our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. We may need to hire additional personnel in the future, and we believe the success of the combined business depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain key employees. The loss of the services of any key employees, the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel could limit our ability to generate revenues and to operate our business. We may require additional capital to fund further development, and our competitive position could decline if we are unable to obtain additional capital, or access the credit markets. To address our long-term capital needs, we intend to continue to pursue strategic relationships that would provide resources for the further development of our product candidates. There can be no assurance, however, that these discussions will result in relationships or additional funding. In addition, we may seek to raise capital through the public or private sale of securities, if market conditions are favorable for doing so. If we are successful in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, stockholders will likely experience dilution, or the equity securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt securities, those securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock. 14 Our Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, contains financial and operating restrictions that may limit our access to credit. If we fail to comply with covenants in the SVB Credit Facility, we may be required to repay any potential indebtedness thereunder, which may have an adverse effect on our liquidity. In May 2011, we amended our Loan and Security Agreement (the “Agreement”) with SVB to increase the credit facility from $5 million to $10 million, among other changes. Provisions in the Agreement impose restrictions on our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; •create liens; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •transfer assets; •pay dividends or make distributions on, or repurchase our stock; or •merge or consolidate. In addition, we are required to meet certain financial covenants and ratios customary with this type of credit facility. The SVB credit facility also contains other customary covenants. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and could cause us to be unable to borrow under the SVB credit facility. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under the SVB credit facility, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the SVB credit facility, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We are subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related to fixed and mobile communications devices and associated services. Laws and regulations related to fixed and mobile communications devices and associated services and end applications are extensive, vary by jurisdiction, and are subject to change. Such changes, could include, without limitation, restrictions on the production, manufacture, distribution, and use of communications devices, restrictions on the ability to port devices and associated services to new carriers’ networks, requirements to make devices and associated services compatible with more than one carrier’s network, or restrictions on end use could, by preventing us from fully serving affected markets, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In particular, communication devices we sell, or which our customer wish us to support, are subject to regulation or certification by governmental agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), industry standardization bodies such as the PCS Type Certification Review Board (PTCRB), and particular carriers for use on their networks. The procedures for obtaining required regulatory approvals and certifications are extensive and time consuming, and can require us to conduct additional testing requirements, makes modifications to our hardware solutions and services, or delay in product launch and shipment dates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We may be subject to breaches of its information technology systems, which could damage our reputation, vendor, and customer relationships, and our customers’ access to our services. Our business requires it to use and store customer, employee, and business partner personally identifiable information (PII). This may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. We require user names and passwords in order to access its information technology systems. We also uses encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. These security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. If a computer security breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of PII, tour reputation and brand could be materially damaged and use of our products and services could decrease. 15 We would also be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws, rules, policies and other obligations regarding data protection. We are subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of PII. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the Company and our subsidiaries, and among the Company, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. Several jurisdictions have passed new laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change its business practices. Noncompliance could result in penalties or significant legal liability. Our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of data are posted on its website and its customer contracts. Any failure by the Company, our suppliers or other parties with whom we do business to comply with our posted privacy policies or with other federal, state or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is also subject to payment card association rules and obligations under its contracts with payment card processors. Under these rules and obligations, if information is compromised, we could be liable to payment card issuers for the cost of associated expenses and penalties. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, we could incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in payment card transaction costs Changes in domestic tax regulations or unanticipated foreign tax liabilities could affect our results. The issuance by the Internal Revenue Service and/or state tax authorities of new tax regulations or changes to existing standards and actions by federal, state or local tax agencies and judicial authorities with respect to applying applicable tax laws and regulations could impose costs on us that we are unable to fully recover. We are doing business in, and are expanding into, foreign tax jurisdictions. We believe that we have complied in all material respects with our obligations to pay taxes in these jurisdictions. If the applicable taxing authorities were to challenge successfully our current tax positions, or if there were changes in the manner in which we conduct our activities, we could become subject to material unanticipated tax liabilities. We may also become subject, prospectively or retrospectively, to additional tax liabilities following changes in tax laws. The application of existing, new or future laws could have adverse effects on our business, prospects and operating results. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct business. A portion of our future revenue, in particular the revenue deriving from our sale of satellite-based mobile asset tracking solutions, may be derived from contracts with the U.S. government, state governments, or government contractors Those contracts are subject to uncertain funding. The funding of government programs is uncertain and, at the federal level, is dependent on continued congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds based on an annual budgeting process. We cannot assure you that current levels of congressional funding for programs supporting by our offerings will continue, particularly as result of the Budget Control Act and the mandated substantial automatic spending cuts beginning in 2013 and lasting for 10 years, unless Congress modifies these cuts. In particular, a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of satellite-based tracking solutions through our location-based services division has been derived from sales made by us indirectly as a subcontractor to a prime government contractor that has the direct relationship with the U.S. government. In addition, these cuts could adversely affect the viability of the prime contractor of our program. If the prime contractor loses business with respect to which we serve as a subcontractor, our government business would be hurt. We also maintain a Federal Supply Schedule with the General Services Administration under which we do business directly with the U.S. government. If we, as the prime contractor, were to lose some or all of such business, our revenues derived from the sale of satellite-based tracking solutions would suffer as a result. 16 Our operating results may be negatively affected by developments affecting government programs generally, including the following: · changes in government programs that are related to our hardware solutions and services; · adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; · changes in political or public support for programs; · delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and · delays in the payment of invoices by government payment offices and the prime contractors. These developments and other factors could cause governmental agencies to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from renewing contracts, any of which would cause our revenue to decline and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, many of the ultimate consumers of our PowerPlay™ hardware and services are elementary and secondary schools that pay for their purchases with funding that they receive through the Schools and Libraries Program (commonly known as the “E-Rate Program”) of the Universal Service Fund, which is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the FCC. Demand for solutions and services under the E-Rate Program is very difficult to predict and changes in the program itself could also affect demand. Government contracts contain provisions that are unfavorable to us. Government contracts contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions may allow the government to · Terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default; · Reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; · Cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; · Decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; · Claim rights in our hardware solutions and services; · Suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency; and · Control or prohibit the export of our hardware solutions and services. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. We may experience performance issues on some of our contracts. We may receive show cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the government’s satisfaction, could give the government the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring our services under those contracts in the future. Agreements with government agencies may lead to regulatory or other legal action against us including, without limitation, claims against us under the Federal False Claims Act or other federal statutes. These claims could result in substantial fines and other penalties. We must comply with a complex set of rules and regulations applicable to government contractors and their subcontractors. Failure to comply with an applicable rule or regulation could result in our suspension of doing business with the government or with the prime government contractors that do business with or cause us to incur substantial penalties. Our agreements with the U.S. government are subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the False Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” provisions. Private enforcement of fraud claims against businesses on behalf of the U.S. government has increased due in large part to amendments to the False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former employees. The False Claims Act statute provides for treble damages and up to $11,000 per claim on the basis of the alleged claims. Prosecutions, investigations or qui tam actions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Finally, various state false claim and anti-kickback laws also may apply to us. Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in criminal and/or civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect our business. We operate internationally, which subjects us to international regulation and business uncertainties that create additional risk for us. We have been doing business directly, or via our distributors, in Australia, Canada, Mexico, and Pakistan, and are expanding, directly or via our distributors, into additional countries in Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. Accordingly, we or our distributors are subject to additional risks, such as: · a continued international economic downturn; · export control requirements, including restrictions on the export of critical technology; · restrictions imposed by local laws and regulations; · restrictions imposed by local product certification requirements; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · generally longer receivable collection periods and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; · trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; · difficulties in repatriating earnings; · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and · potential insolvency of channel partners. We have only limited experience in marketing and operating our services in certain international markets. Moreover, we have in some cases experienced and expect to continue to experience in some cases higher costs as a percentage of revenues in connection with establishing and providing services in international markets versus the U.S. In addition, certain international markets may be slower than the U.S. in adopting the outsourced communications solutions and so our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investments. Furthermore, because regulatory schemes vary by country, we may also be subject to regulations in foreign countries of which we are not presently aware. If that were to be the case, we could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate in that country. We cannot assure you that any current regulatory approvals held by us are, or will remain, sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that any additional necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to operate, or that applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions will not be unduly burdensome. The failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to operate satellites internationally could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position. We, our customers and companies with whom we do business may be required to have authority from each country in which we or they provide services or provide our customers use of our hardware solutions and services. Because regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of our customers and/or companies with which we do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of our business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into material settlements. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results. The loss of intellectual property protection both U.S. and international could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future success and competitive position depend upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection, especially with regard to our core business. We cannot be sure that steps taken by us to protect our technology will prevent misappropriation of the technology. Our services are highly dependent upon our technology and the scope and limitations of our proprietary rights therein. If our assertion of proprietary rights is held to be invalid, or if another party’s use of our technology were to occur to any substantial degree, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In order to protect our technology, we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, and trade secret laws, as well as certain customer licensing agreements, employee and customer confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other similar arrangements. Loss of such protection could compromise any advantage obtained and, therefore, impact our sales, market share, and results. To the extent that our licensees develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our hardware solutions and services, disputes may arise as to the ownership of the proprietary rights to this information. These inventions or processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of these persons or their full-time employers. We could be required to make payments to the owners of these inventions or processes, in the form of either cash or equity, or a combination of both. Furthermore, our future or pending patent applications may not be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. In addition, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. Effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries where we may need protection. 18 We rely on access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and our future results could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to secure such access in the future. Many of our hardware solutions and services are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and in the future we may need to seek or renew licenses relating to such intellectual property. Although we believe that, based on past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms or at all. Some licenses we obtain may be nonexclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to sell some of our hardware solutions and services, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to design and incorporate alternative technologies, without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our competitors have or may obtain patents that could restrict our ability to offer our hardware solutions and services, or subject us to additional costs, which could impede our ability to offer our hardware solutions and services and otherwise adversely affect us. We may, from time to time, also be subject to litigation over intellectual property rights or other commercial issues. Several of our competitors have obtained and can be expected to obtain patents that cover hardware solutions and services directly or indirectly related to those offered by us. There can be no assurance that we are aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by its hardware solutions and services. In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, accordingly, we cannot evaluate the extent to which our hardware solutions and services may infringe on future patent rights held by others. Even with technology that we develop independently, a third party may claim that we are using inventions claimed by their patents and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, such as engineering and development and the sale of any of our hardware solutions and services. Furthermore, because of technological changes in the M2M industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of our hardware solutions, services, and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we have been notified that we may be infringing such rights. In the highly competitive and technology-dependent telecommunications field in particular, litigation over intellectual property rights is significant business risk, and some entities are pursuing a litigation strategy the goal of which is to monetize otherwise unutilized intellectual property portfolios via licensing arrangements entered into under threat of continued litigation. Regardless of merit, responding to such litigation can consume significant time and expense. In certain cases, we may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. If we are found to be infringing such rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain hardware solutions and services or a successful claim of infringement against us requires us to pay royalties to a third party, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether we can develop non-infringing technology. While in management’s opinion we do not have a potential liability for damages or royalties from any known current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights that would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should we fail to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 19 Because our stock is held by a relatively small number of investors and is thinly traded, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell our shares or buy additional shares when they desire and share prices may be volatile. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ. Our stock is thinly traded and we cannot guarantee that an active trading market will develop, or that it will maintain its current market price. A large number of shares of our common stock are held by a small number of investors. An attempt to sell a large number of shares by a large holder could adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, it may be difficult for a purchaser of our shares of our common stock to sell such shares without experiencing significant price volatility. The exercise or conversion of outstanding options, stock appreciation rights and warrants into common stock will dilute the percentage ownership of our other shareholders and the sale of such shares may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2012, there are outstanding options, stock appreciation rights and warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 2.6 million shares of our common stock and more options and stock appreciation rights will likely be granted in the future to our officers, directors, employees and consultants. We may issue additional warrants in connection with acquisitions, borrowing arrangement or other strategic or financial transactions. The exercise of outstanding stock options will dilute the percentage ownership of our other shareholders. The exercise of these options and warrants and the subsequent sale of the underlying common stock could cause a decline in our stock price. The structure of our company limits the voting power of our stockholders and certain factors may inhibit changes in control of our company. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, or tender offer that could involve a premium over the price of our common stock. Currently, our executive officers, directors and greater-than-five percent stockholders and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 28.5% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they vote together, are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions and matters. The interests of these stockholders may be different than those of our unaffiliated stockholders and our unaffiliated stockholders may be dissatisfied with the outcome of votes that may be controlled by our affiliated stockholders. Our articles of incorporation generally limit holdings by persons of our common stock to no more than 10% without prior approval by our Board. Except as otherwise permitted by the Board, no stockholder has the right to cast more than 10% of the total votes regardless of the number of shares of common stock owned. In addition, if a person acquires holdings in excess of this ownership limit, our Board may terminate all voting rights of the person during the time that the ownership limit is violated, bring a lawsuit against the person seeking divestiture of amounts in excess of the limit, or take other actions as the Board deems appropriate. Our articles of incorporation also have a procedure that gives us the right to purchase shares of common stock held in excess of the ownership limit. In addition, our articles of incorporation permit our Board to authorize the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interests of our common stockholders. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 