Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks before buying shares of our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or we currently believe are not material could also adversely affect us. In any case, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K or incorporated herein by reference, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements. See also, “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Ownership Structure We have a history of losses and are uncertain as to our future profitability. We have had mixed success with regard to generating profits. We incurred losses in 2008 after being profitable from 2005-2007. Prior to 2005, we had net operating losses in each year dating back to 1998. In view of our operating costs, which are significant, and given all other risk factors discussed herein, we may not be profitable in the future. Moreover, as a holding company our primary material assets are our ownership interests in our subsidiaries and in certain intellectual property rights. Consequently, our earnings derive from our subsidiaries and we depend on accumulated cash flows, distributions, and other inter-affiliate transfers from our subsidiaries to make payments on our debt. In view of all of the risk factors discussed herein, we cannot assure you that the operating results of our subsidiaries, accumulated cash flows, or the distributions they make to us at any given time will be sufficient to sustain our earnings or that any distribution and/or payments they make to us will be adequate to pay our debt, including interest payments, when due. 17 A prolonged overall economic downturn, or one or more market-specific downturns, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our operations and performance depend significantly on overall domestic and global economic conditions. Economic conditions worldwide have contributed to slowdowns in the technology industry generally, as well as to slowdowns within the specific markets we serve, such as the residential real estate and home security markets. The current, highly uncertain macroeconomic climate including, but not limited to, limited availability of credit, eroding home values and a slowdown in new housing starts, and declining consumer confidence driven by fears of a prolonged recession, threatens to reduce demand for our products, increase price competition in the markets we serve, and increase our risk of carrying excess inventory. In particular, we anticipate that a continued slowdown in the number of new housing starts will result in a slowdown in the sales of our residential alarm monitoring products. If overall conditions worsen significantly, consumers may also decide to cancel wireless monitoring services in an effort to eliminate expenses they may view as “discretionary.” Similarly, declining automobile sales associated with an overall economic downturn negatively impacts sales of our vehicle tracking solutions. All of these and other macroeconomic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. Because our stock is held by a relatively small number of investors and is thinly traded, it may be more difficult for you to sell your shares or buy additional shares when you desire to do so and the price may be volatile. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ. Our stock is thinly traded and we cannot guarantee that an active trading market will develop, or that it will maintain its current market price. A large number of shares of our common stock are held by a small number of investors. An attempt to sell a large number of shares by a large holder could adversely affect the price of our stock. In addition, it may be difficult for a purchaser of our shares of our common stock to sell such shares without experiencing significant price volatility. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We face competition from many companies with significantly greater financial resources, well-established brand names, and larger customer bases. Numerous companies also may try to enter our market and expose us to greater price competition. We expect such competition to intensify in the future. If our competitors successfully focus on the markets we serve, our business could be adversely affected. Our future operating performance depends on the performance of resellers, value added resellers, and other distributors. We distribute our products through wholesalers, resellers, value-added resellers, and other distributors, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. Many resellers operate on narrow margins and have been adversely affected by current overall economic conditions. Our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers stop distributing our products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for our products causes resellers to reduce their orders for, and curtail the marketing of, our products. We have invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. 18 If we achieve our growth goals, we may be unable to manage our resulting expansion. To the extent that we are successful in implementing our business strategy, we may experience periods of rapid expansion. In order to effectively manage growth, whether organic or through acquisitions, we will need to maintain and improve our operations and effectively train and manage our employees. Our expansion through acquisitions is contingent on successful management of those acquisitions, which will require proper integration of new employees, processes and procedures, and information systems, which can be both difficult and demanding from an operational, managerial, cultural, and human resources perspective. We must also expand the capacity of our sales and distribution networks in order to achieve continued growth in our existing and future markets. The failure to manage growth effectively in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We operate in new and rapidly evolving markets where rapid technological change can quickly make products, including those that we offer, obsolete. The markets we operate in are subject to rapid advances in technology, continuously evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements, and ever-shifting customer requirements. The M2M wireless data communications field, in particular, is currently undergoing profound and rapid technological change. For example, cellular carriers that we rely upon in delivering our network services began dismantling their analog-based cellular networks in 2008. While we were largely successful in managing that risk and transitioning our existing customer base to the digital standard, the introduction of unanticipated new technologies by carriers, or the development of unanticipated new end use applications by our customers, could render our current solutions obsolete. In that regard, we must discern current trends and anticipate an uncertain future. We must engage in product development efforts in advance of events that we cannot be sure will happen and time our production cycles and marketing activities accordingly. If our projections are incorrect, or if our product development efforts are not properly directed and timed, or if the demands of the marketplace shift in directions that we failed to anticipate, we may lose market share and revenues as a result. To remain competitive, we continue to support research and development efforts intended to bring new products to the markets that we serve. However, those efforts are capital intensive. If we are unable to adequately fund our research and development efforts, we may not be successful in keeping our product line current with advances in technology and evolving customer requirements. Even with adequate funding, our development efforts may not yield any appreciable short-term results and may never result in products that produce revenues over and above our cumulative development costs or that gain traction in the marketplace, causing us to either lose market share or fail to increase and forego increased sales and revenues as a result. Failure of our new products and services to gain market acceptance would adversely affect our financial condition. Over the past several years, among many initiatives, we have introduced a system enabling alarm signals to be transmitted digitally over the cellular network to central monitoring stations; a cellular and GPS-based vehicle tracking solution; satellite-based asset monitoring and tracking solutions; a multimedia videoconferencing solution, enhanced “back end” services; and, most recently, with our acquisition of uBlip, Inc., enhanced application development capabilities. If these products and services, or any of our other existing products and services, do not perform as expected, or if our sales are less than expected, our business may be adversely affected. 19 If we are unable to provide our suppliers with accurate forecasts of our product needs, margins could be adversely affected. We are contractually obligated to provide our suppliers with forecasts of our demand for manufactured products. Specific terms and conditions vary by contract, however, if our forecasts do not result in the production of a quantity of units sufficient to meet demand we may be subject to contractual penalties under some of our contracts with our customers. By contrast, overproduction of units based on forecasts that that overestimate demand could result in an accumulation of excess inventory that, under some of our contracts with our customers, would have to be managed at our expense thus adversely impacting our margins. Excess inventory that becomes obsolete or that we are otherwise unable to sell would also be subject to write-offs resulting in adverse affects on our margins. The loss of one or just a few of our significant customers could negatively impact our revenues. In 2008, a single customer, General Electric, accounted for approximately 22% of our annual revenues and it is possible that such customer’s purchases in 2009 will account for 10% or more of our anticipated revenues for 2009. The loss of such a customer could have a material adverse affect on our revenues, operating income and net earnings. We may experience long sales cycles for our products, as a result of a variety of factors. Certain of our product offerings, for example our satellite-based asset tracking solutions, are subject to long sales cycles in view of the need for testing of our products in combination with our customers’ applications and third parties’ technologies, the need for regulatory approvals and export clearances, and the need to resolve other complex operational and technical issues. In the government contracting arena in particular, longer sales cycles are reflective of the fact that government contracts can take months or longer to progress from a “request for proposal” to a finalized contract document pursuant to which we are able to sell a finished product or service. Terms and conditions of sale unique to the government sector may also affect when we are able to recognize revenues. For that reason, quarter-over-quarter comparisons of our financial results may not always be meaningful. We are dependent on a number of network service providers, manufacturers and suppliers of our products and product components, the loss of any one of which could adversely impact our ability to service or supply our customers. The loss or disruption of key telecommunications infrastructure services and key wireless network services supplied to the Company would unfavorably impact our ability to adequately service our customers. Our long-term success depends on our ability to operate, manage, and maintain a reliable and cost effective network, as well as our ability to keep pace with changes in technology. Furthermore, our network operations are dependent on third parties. If we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to transfer traffic onto our network, fail to generate additional traffic on our network, or if we experience difficulties with our third party providers, we may not achieve our revenue goals or otherwise be successful in growing our business. 20 We outsource the manufacturing of our products to independent companies and do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to meet the demands of our customers. Any delay, interruption, or termination of the manufacture of our products could harm our ability to provide our products to our customers and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The manufacture of our products requires specialized know-how and capabilities possessed by a limited number of enterprises. Consequently, we are reliant on just a few suppliers for the manufacture of key products and product components. If a key supplier experiences production problems or financial difficulties, we may not be able to obtain enough units to meet demand, which could result in failure to meet our contractual commitments to our customers, further causing us to lose sales and generate less revenue. If any of our products or product components contain significant manufacturing defects that the existing manufacturer or supplier is unable to resolve, we could also have difficulty locating a suitable alternative manufacturer or supplier. Related efforts to design replacement products or product components could also take longer and prove costlier than planned, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. A significant portion of our future revenue will be derived from contracts with the U.S. government or U.S. government agencies. These agreements are subject to uncertain future funding and possible termination. Historically, a significant portion of our Satellite division revenues have been derived from sales made indirectly as a subcontractor to another government contractor, referred to as the prime contractor, who has the direct relationship with the U.S. government or US government agencies. If the prime contractor loses existing business on which we serve as a subcontractor, or fail to win the competitive bids on which we team with them, our government business would be hurt. Additionally, our Satellite division has Federal Supply Schedule with the General Services Administration. It is the general practice of government agencies to renegotiate contracts with commercial companies, such as our Satellite division, upon expiration. Although we are continuing negotiations with the GSA, these negotiations may not result in a new contract. Sales to U.S. government customers may continue through resellers or under direct contracts with specific agencies; however, the revenue resulting from these arrangements may be less than past revenues under the GSA schedule contract, and sales through resellers may generate reduced margins. The funding of U.S. government programs is uncertain and dependent on continued congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds based on an annual budgeting process. We cannot assure you that current levels of congressional funding for our Satellite division’s products and services will continue. Furthermore, all of our contracts with the U.S. government are terminable by the U.S. government (or, in certain circumstances, by us) at will. A significant decline in government expenditures generally, or with respect to programs for which we provide products, could adversely affect our business and prospects. Our operating results may also be negatively affected by other developments that affect these government programs generally, including the following: · changes in government programs that are related to our products and services; · adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; · changes in political or public support for programs; · delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and · delays in the payment of invoices by government payment offices and the prime contractors. These developments and other factors could cause governmental agencies to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from renewing contracts, any of which would cause our revenue to decline and could otherwise harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Agreements with government agencies may lead to claims against us under the Federal False Claims Act. These claims could result in substantial fines and other penalties. Our agreement with the U.S. Government is subject to substantial financial penalties under the Civil Monetary Penalties Act and the False Claims Act and, in particular, actions under the False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” provisions. Private enforcement of fraud claims against businesses on behalf of the U.S. Government has increased due in large part to amendments to the False Claims Act that encourage private individuals to sue on behalf of the government. These whistleblower suits by private individuals, known as qui tam actions, may be filed by almost anyone, including present and former employees. The False Claims Act statute provides for treble damages and up to $11,000 per claim on the basis of the alleged claims. Prosecutions, investigations or qui tam actions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, various state false claim and anti-kickback laws also may apply to us. Violation of any of the foregoing statutes can result in criminal and/or civil penalties that could have a material adverse effect our business. Federal government contracts contain provisions that are unfavorable to us. Federal government contracts contain provisions, and are subject to laws and regulations, that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions may allow the government to • Terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default, • Reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts, • Cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable, • Decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract, • Claim rights in products and systems produced by us, • Suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency, and • Control or prohibit the export of our products. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. We may experience performance issues on some of our contracts. We may receive show cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the government’s satisfaction, could give the government the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring our services under those contracts in the future. 22 We may lose customers if we experience system failures that significantly disrupt the availability and quality of the service our network provides. The operation of our network depends on our ability to avoid or limit any interruptions in service to our customers. Interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new customers. In addition, because most of our customers are businesses, any significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other losses to our customers. Although we attempt to disclaim or limit liability in our agreements with these customers, a court may not enforce a limitation on liability, which could expose us to losses. The failure of any equipment on our network, or that of a customer’s or end user’s equipment, could result in the interruption of service until necessary repairs are made or replacement equipment is installed. Network failures, delays, and errors may result from natural disasters, power losses, security breaches, viruses or terrorist acts. These failures or faults cause delays, service interruptions, expose us to customer liability, or require expensive modifications that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We may have difficulty identifying the source of a problem in our network. If a problem occurs on our network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem due to the overlay of our network with cellular, and/or satellite networks and our network’s reliance on those other networks. The occurrence of hardware or software errors, regardless of whether such errors are caused by our products or our network, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and services, and any necessary revisions may result in significant and additional expenses. The occurrence of some of these types of problems may seriously harm our business, financial condition, or operations. Given our dependence on cellular, and satellite telecommunications service providers, risks specific or unique to their technologies, i.e., the loss or malfunction of a satellite or satellite ground station, should also be viewed as having the potential to impair our ability to provide services. A natural disaster or other weather events could diminish our ability to provide service; our revenues may be impacted by weather patterns. Although our internal platform is very robust and supported by redundant systems, natural disasters including, without limitation, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, or solar flares could damage or destroy our facilities resulting in a disruption of service to our customers. If a future natural disaster impairs or destroys any of our facilities, we may be unable to provide service to our customers in the affected area for a period of time. In addition, even if our facilities are not affected by natural disasters, our service could be disrupted if a natural disaster damages the third party cellular or satellite networks we are interconnected with. Further, in the event of an emergency, the telecommunications networks that we rely upon may become capacity constrained or preempted by governmental authorities. With respect to our satellite-based asset tracking unit in particular, sales may be influenced by weather patterns. For example, if government agencies and emergency responders anticipate a relatively “mild” storm season, they buy fewer of our units for deployment in support of disaster response operations. 23 The loss of a few key technical personnel could have an adverse affect on us in the short-term. We rely on a relatively small number of technical personnel who play key roles in maintaining the back-end technology and systems that enable us to provide network services to our customers and that is also central to our product development efforts. The loss of some staff could result, temporarily, in shortfalls in the knowledge base of our remaining technical staff concerning existing products and products that are under development. We may require additional capital to fund further development, and our competitive position could decline if we are unable to obtain additional capital, or access the credit markets. To address our long-term capital needs, we intend to continue to pursue strategic relationships that would provide resources for the further development of our product candidates. There can be no assurance, however, that these discussions will result in relationships or additional funding. In addition, we may continue to seek capital through the public or private sale of securities, if market conditions are favorable for doing so. If we are successful in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, stockholders will likely experience dilution, or the equity securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt securities, those securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock. The current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it could affect our business. Events affecting credit market liquidity could increase borrowing costs or limit availability of funds. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital because we are unable to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, it could reduce our product development efforts and may materially adversely affect our future growth, results of operations and financial results, and we may be required to curtail significantly, or eliminate at least temporarily, one or more of our research and development programs involving new products and technologies. Sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of warrants may dilute the value of our common stock. In 2006 we entered into a $10 million financing agreement with the Laurus Master Fund, Ltd ("Laurus"). The net proceeds from the transaction fund strategic initiatives that may include joint ventures, co- marketing programs, and acquisitions. The financing provided is a $10 million Convertible Note with a term of four years and a fixed interest rate of 9.5%. It is secured by the assets of Numerex. Pursuant to the transaction, we issued warrants to Laurus to purchase a total of 158,562 Numerex shares of our common stock at a price per share of $10.13. Both principal and interest on the Note are payable in cash or, subject to certain conditions, in shares of our common stock. Principal reductions in equal amounts began in July 2007 and will continue until the final payment is made in December 2010. If payments are made in common stock, the amount of principal and interest repaid will be converted into equity at the fixed conversion price of $10.37, a 10% premium over the average NASDAQ closing prices for the past ten trading days. (We have a put right to convert the Note into equity in tranches not to exceed $2.5 million, should the market price of the common stock exceed $11.40 or 110% of the fixed conversion price for twelve consecutive trading days.) As of December 31, 2008, Laurus has not exercised any warrants. The issuance of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options or warrants could result in dilution of our common stock. It also could adversely affect the terms on which we may be able to obtain equity financing in the future. 24 The structure of our company limits the voting power of our stockholders and certain factors may inhibit changes in control of our company. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, or tender offer that could involve a premium over the price of our common stock. Currently, our executive officers, directors and greater-than-five percent stockholders and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they vote together, are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions and matters. The interests of these stockholders may be different than those of our unaffiliated stockholders and our unaffiliated stockholders may be dissatisfied with the outcome of votes that may be controlled by our affiliated stockholders. Our articles of incorporation generally limit holdings by persons of our common stock to no more than 10% without prior approval by our Board. Except as otherwise permitted by the Board, no stockholder has the right to cast more than 10% of the total votes regardless of the number of shares of common stock owned. In addition, if a person acquires holdings in excess of this ownership limit, our Board may terminate all voting rights of the person during the time that the ownership limit is violated, bring a lawsuit against the person seeking divestiture of amounts in excess of the limit, or take other actions as the Board deems appropriate. Our articles of incorporation also have a procedure that gives us the right to purchase shares of common stock held in excess of the ownership limit. In addition, our articles of incorporation permit our Board to authorize the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interests of our common stockholders. The Company is subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related to mobile communications devices. Laws and regulations related to mobile communications devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes, which could include but are not limited to restrictions on production, manufacture, distribution, and use of mobile devices, locking the devices to a carrier’s network, or mandating the use of the device on more than one carrier’s network, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Mobile communication devices we sell are subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications or delays in product shipment dates, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our expansion into government markets subjects us to increased regulation. We must comply with a complex set of rules and regulations applicable to government contractors. Failure to comply with an applicable rule or regulation could result in our suspension of doing business with the government or cause us to incur substantial penalties. Many of the ultimate consumers of our PowerPlay hardware and services are elementary and secondary schools that pay for their purchases with funding that they receive through the Schools and Libraries Program (commonly known as the “E-Rate Program”) of the Universal Service Fund, which is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the FCC. Changes in this program could affect demand for our PowerPlay hardware and services. 25 We may be subject to telecommunications taxes, surcharges, and fees, and changes in these could affect our results of operations. And, as we expand beyond the “business-to-business” market and begin providing some services directly to end user consumers, some of our sales could become subject to federal and state level consumer protection laws and other regulations that could prompt adverse legal action in the event of an alleged violation of those laws. We operate internationally, which subjects us to international regulation and business uncertainties that create additional risk for us. We are doing business in Australia, Canada, China, and Mexico., and are expanding into additional countries in Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. Accordingly, we are subject to additional risks, such as · a prolonged, international economic downturn, · export control requirements, including restrictions on the export of critical technology, · restrictions imposed by local laws and regulations; · restrictions imposed by local product certification requirements; · currency exchange rate fluctuations, · generally longer receivable collection periods and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, · trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, and · potential insolvency of international dealers and distributors. Our products and services experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and operating margin. Our products and services, and the applications they support, are complex. While we test our products, they may still have errors, defects, or bugs that we find only after commercial production has begun. In the past, we have experienced errors, defects, and bugs in connection with new products. Our customers may not purchase our products if the products have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems. Furthermore, product errors, defects, or bugs could result in additional development costs, diversion of resources from our other development efforts, claims by our customers or others against us, or the loss of credibility with our current and prospective customers. Historically, the time required for us to correct defects has caused delays in product shipments and resulted in lower than expected revenues. Significant capital and resources may be required to address and fix problems in new products. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, harm to reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 26 The loss of intellectual property protection both U.S. and international, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future success and competitive position depend upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection, especially with regard to our core business. We cannot be sure that steps taken by us to protect our technology will prevent misappropriation of the technology. Our services are highly dependent upon our technology and the scope and limitations of our proprietary rights therein. If our assertion of proprietary rights is held to be invalid, or if another party’s use of our technology were to occur to any substantial degree, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In order to protect our technology, we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, and trade secret laws, as well as certain customer licensing agreements, employee and customer confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other similar arrangements. Loss of such protection could compromise any advantage obtained and, therefore, impact our sales, market share, and results. To the extent that our licensees develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products, disputes may arise as to the ownership of the proprietary rights to this information. These inventions or processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of these persons or their full-time employers. We could be required to make payments to the owners of these inventions or processes, in the form of either cash or equity, or a combination of both. Furthermore, our future or pending patent applications may not be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. In addition, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. Effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries where we may need protection. We rely on access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and our future results could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to secure such access in the future. Many of our products are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and in the future we may need to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products and business methods. Although we believe that, based on past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms or at all. Some licenses we obtain may be nonexclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to design and incorporate alternative technologies, without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our competitors may obtain patents that could restrict our ability to offer our products and services, or subject us to additional costs, which could impede our ability to offer our products and services and otherwise adversely affect us. We may, from time to time, also be subject to litigation over intellectual property rights or other commercial issues. Several of our competitors have obtained and can be expected to obtain patents that cover products or services directly or indirectly related to those offered by us. There can be no assurance that we are aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by its products or services. In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, accordingly, we cannot evaluate the extent to which our products or services may infringe on future patent rights held by others. Even with technology that we develop independently, a third party may claim that we are using inventions claimed by their patents and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, such as research and development and the sale of any of our products or services. Furthermore, because of technological changes in the M2M industry, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of our products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we have been notified that we may be infringing such rights. 27 In the highly competitive and technology-dependent telecommunications field in particular, litigation over intellectual property rights is significant business risk, and some entities are pursuing a litigation strategy the goal of which is to monetize otherwise unutilized intellectual property portfolios via licensing arrangements entered into under threat of continued litigation. Regardless of merit, responding to such litigation can consume significant time and expense. In certain cases, we may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. If we are found to be infringing such rights, we may be required to pay substantial damages. If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain products or a successful claim of infringement against us requires us to pay royalties to a third party, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether we can develop non-infringing technology. While in management’s opinion we do not have a potential liability for damages or royalties from any known current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights that would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should we fail to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of its business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into material settlements. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially affect our financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 