Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks before buying shares of our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are unaware or we currently believe are not material could also adversely affect us. In any case, the value of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. You should also refer to the other information contained in this Form 10-K or incorporated herein by reference, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements. See also, “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Ownership Structure We have a history of losses and are uncertain as to our future profitability. Although we earned a profit for the years ended December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 we have otherwise had a net loss each year since 1998. We may not sustain operating income, net earnings, or positive cash flow from operations in the future. In addition, we expect to continue to incur significant operating costs and, as a result, will need to generate significant additional revenues to maintain profitability, which may not occur. If our revenues do not grow as needed to offset these costs, our business may not succeed. 14 We are a holding company. Our only material assets are our ownership interests in our subsidiaries and in certain intellectual property rights. Consequently, we depend on distributions or other intercompany transfers from our subsidiaries to make payments on our debt. In addition, distributions and intercompany transfers to us from our subsidiaries will depend on: · the earnings of our subsidiaries; · covenants contained in agreements to which we or our subsidiaries are, or may become, subject; · business and tax considerations; and · applicable law, including laws regarding the payment of dividends and distributions. We cannot assure you that the operating results of our subsidiaries or the distributions they make to us at any given time will be sufficient to make distributions or other payments to us or that any distribution and/or payments will be adequate to pay our debt, including interest payments, when due. The structure of our company may limit the voting power of our stockholders and certain factors may inhibit changes in control of our company. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, or tender offer that could involve a premium over the price of our common stock. Currently, our executive officers, directors and greater-than-five percent stockholders and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they vote together, are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions and matters. The interests of these stockholders may be different than those of our unaffiliated stockholders and our unaffiliated stockholders may be dissatisfied with the outcome of votes that may be controlled by our affiliated stockholders. Our articles of incorporation generally limit holdings by persons of our common stock to no more than 10% without prior approval by our Board. Except as otherwise permitted by the Board, no stockholder has the right to cast more than 10% of the total votes regardless of the number of shares of common stock owned. In addition, if a person acquires holdings in excess of this ownership limit, our Board may terminate all voting rights of the person during the time that the ownership limit is violated, bring a lawsuit against the person seeking divestiture of amounts in excess of the limit, or take other actions as the Board deems appropriate. Our articles of incorporation also have a procedure that gives us the right to purchase shares of common stock held in excess of the ownership limit. In addition, our articles of incorporation permit our Board to authorize the issuance of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interests of our common stockholders. Our current business plan contemplates significant expansion, which we may be unable to manage. To the extent that we are successful in implementing our business strategy, we may experience periods of rapid expansion in the future. In order to effectively manage growth, whether organic or through acquisitions, we will need to maintain and improve our operating systems and expand, train, and manage our employees. Our expansion through acquisitions is contingent on successful management of those acquisitions, which will require proper integration of new employees, processes and procedures and information systems, which can be both difficult and taxing from a human resources perspective. In addition, we must carefully manage product inventory levels to meet demand. Inaccuracies in expected demand could result in insufficient or excessive inventories and unexpected additional expenses. We must also expand the capacity of our sales, distribution and installation networks in order to achieve continued growth in our existing and future markets. The failure to manage growth effectively in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 We may require additional capital to fund further development, and our competitive position could decline if we are unable to obtain additional capital, or access the credit markets. To address our long-term capital needs, we intend to continue to pursue strategic relationships that would provide resources for the further development of our product candidates. There can be no assurance, however, that these discussions will result in relationships or additional funding. In addition, we may continue to seek capital through the public or private sale of securities, if market conditions are favorable for doing so. If we are successful in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, stockholders will likely experience dilution, or the equity securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt securities, those securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in seeking additional capital. The current credit environment has negatively affected the economy, and we have considered how it might affect our business. Events affecting credit market liquidity could increase borrowing costs or limit availability of funds. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital because we are unable to access the capital markets at financially economical interest rates, it could reduce our product development efforts and may materially adversely affect our future growth, results of operations and financial results, and we may be required to curtail significantly, or eliminate at least temporarily, one or more of our research and development programs involving new products and technologies. Sales of common stock issuable on the exercise of warrants may dilute the value of our common stock. In 2006 we entered into a $10 million financing agreement with the Laurus Master Fund, Ltd ("Laurus"). The net proceeds from the transaction fund strategic initiatives that may include joint ventures, co- marketing programs, and acquisitions. The financing provided is a $10 million Convertible Note with a term of four years and a fixed interest rate of 9.5%. It is secured by the assets of Numerex. Pursuant to the transaction, we issued warrants to Laurus to purchase a total of 158,562 Numerex shares of our common stock at a price per share of $10.13. Both principal and interest on the Note are payable in cash or, subject to certain conditions, in shares of our common stock. Principal reductions in equal amounts began in July 2007 and will continue until the final payment is made in December 2010. If payments are made in common stock, the amount of principal and interest repaid will be converted into equity at the fixed conversion price of $10.37, a 10% premium over the average NASDAQ closing prices for the past ten trading days. (We have a put right to convert the Note into equity in tranches not to exceed $2.5 million, should the market price of the common stock exceed $11.40 or 110% of the fixed conversion price for twelve consecutive trading days.) As of December 31, 2007, Laurus has not exercised any warrants. The issuance of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of options or warrants could result in dilution of our common stock. It also could adversely affect the terms on which we may be able to obtain equity financing in the future. Risks Related to Our Business A prolonged overall economic downturn, or one or more market-specific downturns, could individually or collectively have an adverse affect on our sales. Sales of our fixed and mobile, cellular- and satellite-based asset tracking and monitoring solutions are dependant on growth in the overall market for M2M wireless data communications services. If adverse economic conditions impede the overall growth of the M2M market, it is likely that sales across each of the individual market segments that we serve will, to varying degrees, be adversely affected as well. Conversely, it is likely that adverse economic conditions that are initially specific to an individual market segment may, because of complex macro- and micro-economic interdependencies, adversely impact adjacent market segments. In particular, the continued slowdown in the number of new housing starts or a prolonged overall economic downturn or recession could negatively impact our sales of alarm monitoring solutions. Growth in that segment is, in significant part, driven by new home buying and business starts. A continuation of the slowdown in new housing and business starts would likely be matched by a slowdown in the purchase and installation of new residential and commercial security systems. In response to an overall economic slowdown or recession, consumers and business owners may also decide to cancel wireless monitoring services in an effort to reduce or eliminate expenses they may view as “discretionary”. Similarly, declining automobile sales associated with an overall economic downturn could result in fewer sales of our vehicle tracking solutions. 16 The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We face competition from many companies with significantly greater financial resources, well-established brand names, and larger customer bases. Numerous companies also may try to enter our market and expose us to greater price competition for our services. We expect competition to intensify in the future. If our competitors successfully focus on the markets we serve, our business could be adversely affected. We operate in new and rapidly evolving markets where rapid technological change can quickly make products, including those that we offer, obsolete. The markets we operate in are subject to rapid advances in technology, continuously evolving industry standards and regulatory requirements, and ever-shifting customer requirements. The M2M wireless data communications field, in particular, is currently undergoing profound and rapid technological change. For example, cellular carriers that we rely upon in delivering our network services began dismantling their analog-based cellular networks on February 18, 2008. While we have developed a digital standard, we may not be successful in fully transitioning our existing customer base to the digital standard. Further, while we believe we are prepared to meet our customers’ demand for solutions that are compatible with the cellular carriers’ all-digital networks, the introduction of unanticipated new technologies by the carriers, or the development of unanticipated new end use applications by our customers, could render our then-existing solutions obsolete. In that regard, we must discern current trends and anticipate an uncertain future. We must engage in product development efforts in advance of events that we cannot be sure will happen and time our production cycles and marketing activities accordingly. If our projections are incorrect, or if our product development efforts are not properly directed and timed, or if the demands of the marketplace shift in directions that we failed to anticipate, we may lose market share and revenues as a result. To remain competitive, we continue to support research and development efforts intended to bring new products to the markets that we serve. However, those efforts are capital intensive. If we are unable to adequately fund our research and development efforts, we may not be successful in keeping our product line current with advances in technology and evolving customer requirements. Even with adequate funding, our development efforts may not yield any appreciable short-term results and may never result in products that produce revenues over and above our cumulative development costs or that gain traction in the marketplace, causing us to either lose market share or fail to increase and forego increased sales and revenues as a result. Failure of our products and services to gain market acceptance would adversely affect our financial condition. Over the past three years, among many initiatives, we have introduced a system enabling alarm signals to be transmitted over the cellular network to central monitoring stations; a cellular and GPS-based vehicle tracking solution, solutions tailored to the security needs of the construction industry; a multimedia videoconferencing solution, direct-to-consumer services; enhanced “back end” services; and, most recently, with our acquisition of the assets of Orbit One Communications, Inc., satellite-based asset monitoring and tracking solutions. If these products and services, or any of our other existing products and services, do not perform as expected, or if our sales are less than expected, our business may be adversely affected. We are dependent on a number of network service providers, manufacturers and suppliers of our products and product components, the loss of any one of which could adversely impact our ability to service or supply our customers. The loss or disruption of key telecommunications infrastructure services and key wireless network services supplied to the Company would unfavorably impact our ability to adequately service our customers. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to independent companies and do not have internal manufacturing capabilities to meet the demands of our customers. Any delay, interruption, or termination of the manufacture of our products could harm our ability to provide our products to our customers and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The manufacture of our products requires specialized know-how and capabilities possessed by a limited number of enterprises. Consequently, we are reliant on one or two suppliers for the manufacture of key products and product components. If a key supplier experiences production problems or financial difficulties, we may not be able to obtain enough units to meet demand, which could result in failure to meet our contractual commitments to our customers, further causing us to lose sales and generate less revenue. If any of our products or product components contain significant manufacturing defects that the existing manufacturer or supplier is unable to resolve, we could also have difficulty locating a suitable alternative manufacturer or supplier. Related efforts to design replacement products or product components could also take longer and prove costlier than planned, resulting in lost sales and reduced. 17 If we are unable to provide our suppliers with accurate forecasts of our product needs, margins could be adversely affected. We are contractually obligated to provide our suppliers with forecasts of our demand for manufactured products. Specific terms and conditions vary by contract, however, if our forecasts do not result in the production of a quantity of units sufficient to meet demand we may be subject to contractual penalties under some of our contracts with our customers. By contrast, overproduction of units based on forecasts that that overestimate demand could result in an accumulation excess inventory that, under some of our contracts with our customers, would have to be managed at our expense thus adversely impacting our margins. Excess inventory that becomes obsolete or that we are otherwise unable to sell would also be subject to write-offs resulting in adverse affects on our margins. If we experience product defects or failures, our costs could increase and delay product shipments. Our products and services, and the applications they support, are complex. While we test our products, they may still have errors, defects, or bugs that we find only after commercial production has begun. In the past, we have experienced errors, defects, and bugs in connection with new products. Our customers may not purchase our products if the products have reliability, quality, or compatibility problems. Furthermore, product errors, defects, or bugs could result in additional development costs, diversion of resources from our other development efforts, claims by our customers or others against us, or the loss of credibility with our current and prospective customers. Historically, the time required for us to correct defects has caused delays in product shipments and resulted in lower than expected revenues. Significant capital and resources may be required to address and fix problems in new products. If our products do not function properly, we may have lower than expected revenues, and net income would likely be adversely affected. A large portion of our revenues is derived from sales to distributors, and changes in the productivity of our distribution channels or any disruption of our distribution channel could adversely affect the sale of our products and services. We primarily sell our products through distributors. Our sales could be affected by disruptions in the relationships between our distributors and us or between our distributors and end users of our products or services. Also, distributors may choose not to emphasize our products and services to their customers. Any of these actions or results could lead to decreased sales, and adversely affect our results of operations. The loss of a significant customer could materially impact our revenues. Purchases by a single customer may account for up to 13% of our anticipated revenues for 2008 as was the case for fiscal year 2007. The loss of such a customer could have a material adverse affect on our revenues, operating income and net earnings. We may experience long sales cycles for our products, as a result of a variety of factors. Certain of our product offerings, particularly those specific to our satellite-based asset tracking unit, are subject to long sales cycles in view of the need for testing of our products in combination with our customers’ applications and third party technologies, the need to obtain regulatory approvals and export clearances, and as a function of the need to negotiate other complex operational and technical issues. Particularly in the government contracting arena, it may take months or longer to finalize a contract. Terms and conditions of sale unique to the government sector may also affect when we are able to recognize revenues under our government contracts. For that reason, month-over-month comparisons of our financial results may not always be meaningful. If we do not adapt to changing government regulations, our business will suffer. Changing government regulations could make our existing hardware non-compliant or obsolete. For example, as previously discussed, as of February 18, 2008, cellular carriers in the United States were no longer required by the FCC to provide analog service pursuant to the Advanced Mobile Phone Service (AMPS) standard and, as a result, we had to convert our existing analog subscriber base to digital service. (No date has been set for ending analog service in Canada. However, cellular carriers in Canada are transitioning from analog to digital networks as well.) Our expansion into government markets subjects us to increased regulation. We must comply with a complex set of rules and regulations applicable to government contractors. Failure to comply with an applicable rule or regulation could result in our suspension of doing business with the government or cause us to incur substantial penalties. 18 Many of the ultimate consumers of our PowerPlay hardware and services are elementary and secondary schools that pay for their purchases with funding that they receive through the Schools and Libraries Program (commonly known as the “E-Rate Program”) of the Universal Service Fund, which is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the direction of the FCC. Changes in this program could affect demand for our PowerPlay hardware and services. We may be subject to telecommunications taxes, surcharges, and fees, and changes in these could affect our results of operations. And, as we expand beyond the “business-to-business” market and begin providing some services directly to end user consumers, some of our sales could become subject to federal and state level consumer protection laws and other regulations that could prompt adverse legal action in the event of an alleged violation of those laws. We operate internationally, which subjects us to international regulation and business uncertainties that create additional risk for us. We are doing business in Australia, Canada, China, Mexico, and Japan. Accordingly, we are subject to additional risks, such as · export control requirements, including restrictions on the export of critical technology, · currency exchange rate fluctuations, · generally longer receivable collection periods and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, · trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, · difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, and · potential insolvency of international dealers and distributors. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not protect our hardware as much as the laws of the United States, which may lead to the potential loss of our proprietary technology through theft, piracy or a failure to protect our rights. The combination of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve our organic growth goals if we do not generate additional traffic and efficiently operate our network. Our long-term success depends on our ability to operate, manage, and maintain a reliable and cost effective network, as well as our ability to keep pace with changes in technology. Furthermore, our network operations are dependent on third parties. If we experience technical or logistical impediments to our ability to transfer traffic onto our network, fail to generate additional traffic on our network, or if we experience difficulties with our third party providers, we may not achieve our revenue goals or otherwise be successful in growing our business. We may lose customers if we experience system failures that significantly disrupt the availability and quality of the service our network provides. The operation of our network depends on our ability to avoid or limit any interruptions in service to our customers. Interruptions in service or performance problems, for whatever reason, could undermine confidence in our services and cause us to lose customers or make it more difficult to attract new customers. In addition, because most of our customers are businesses, any significant interruption in service could result in lost profits or other losses to our customers. Although we attempt to disclaim or limit liability in our agreements with these customers, a court may not enforce a limitation on liability, which could expose us to losses. The failure of any equipment on our network, or that of a customer’s equipment, could result in the interruption of that customer’s service until necessary repairs are made or replacement equipment is installed. Network failures, delays, and errors may result from natural disasters, power losses, security breaches, viruses or terrorist acts. These failures or faults cause delays, service interruptions, expose us to customer liability, or require expensive modifications that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 19 We may have difficulty identifying the source of a problem in our network. If a problem occurs on our network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem due to the overlay of our network with cellular, and/or satellite networks and our network’s reliance on those other networks. The occurrence of hardware or software errors, regardless of whether such errors are caused by our products or our network, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and services, and any necessary revisions may result in significant and additional expenses. The occurrence of some of these types of problems may seriously harm our business, financial condition, or operations. Given our dependence on cellular, and satellite telecommunications service providers, risks specific or unique to their technologies, i.e., the loss or malfunction of a satellite or satellite ground station, should also be viewed as having the potential to impair our ability to provide services. A natural disaster or other weather events could diminish our ability to provide service; our revenues may be impacted by weather patterns. Although our internal platform is very robust and supported by redundant systems, natural disasters including, without limitation, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, or solar flares could damage or destroy our facilities resulting in a disruption of service to our customers. If a future natural disaster impairs or destroys any of our facilities, we may be unable to provide service to our customers in the affected area for a period of time. In addition, even if our facilities are not affected by natural disasters, our service could be disrupted if a natural disaster damages the third party cellular or satellite networks we are interconnected with. Further, in the event of an emergency, the telecommunications networks that we rely upon may become capacity constrained or preempted by governmental authorities. With respect to our satellite-based asset tracking unit in particular, sales may be influenced by weather patterns. For example, if government agencies and emergency responders anticipate a relatively “mild” storm season, they buy fewer of our units for deployment in support of disaster response operations. The loss of a few key technical personnel could have an adverse affect on us in the short-term. We rely on a relatively small number of technical personnel who play key roles in maintaining the back-end technology and systems that enable us to provide network services to our customers and that is also central to our product development efforts. The loss of some staff could result, temporarily, in shortfalls in the knowledge base of our remaining technical staff concerning existing products and products that are under development. The loss of intellectual property protection both U.S. and international, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our future success and competitive position depend upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection, especially with regard to patents on the technology used in our core business. Loss of such protection could compromise any advantage obtained and, therefore, impact our sales, market share, and results. Furthermore, our future or pending patent applications may not be issued with the scope of the claims sought by us, if at all. In addition, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate our technology or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. Effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries where we may need protection. We cannot be sure that steps taken by us to protect our technology will prevent misappropriation of the technology. Our services are highly dependent upon our technology and the scope and limitations of our proprietary rights therein. In order to protect our technology, we rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, and trade secret laws, as well as certain customer licensing agreements, employee and third-party confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other similar arrangements. If our assertion of proprietary rights is held to be invalid, or if another party’s use of our technology were to occur to any substantial degree, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our competitors may obtain patents that could restrict our ability to offer our products and services, or subject us to additional costs, which could impede our ability to offer our products and services and otherwise adversely affect us. We may, from time to time, also be subject to litigation over intellectual property rights or other commercial issues. Several of our competitors have obtained and can be expected to obtain patents that cover products or services directly or indirectly related to those offered by us. There can be no assurance that we are aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by its products or services. In addition, patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, accordingly, we cannot evaluate the extent to which our products or services may infringe on future patent rights held by others. 20 Furthermore, even with technology that we develop independently, a third party may claim that we are using inventions claimed by their patents and may go to court to stop us from engaging in our normal operations and activities, such as research and development and the sale of any of our products or services. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources. The court could decide that we are infringing the third party’s patents and order us to stop the activities claimed by the patent and/or order us to pay the other party damages for having infringed its patents. There is no guarantee that the prevailing patent owner would offer us a license so that we could continue to engage in activities claimed by the patent, or that such a license, if made available to us, could be acquired on commercially acceptable terms. In the highly competitive and technology-dependent telecommunications field in particular, litigation over intellectual property rights is significant business risk, and some entities are pursuing a litigation strategy the goal of which is to monetize otherwise unutilized intellectual property portfolios via licensing arrangements entered into under threat of continued litigation. Some licenses we obtain may be nonexclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to design and incorporate alternative technologies, without a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products and information are subject to secrecy and confidentiality obligations, violations of which may not be able to be remedied. Although we have taken, and will continue to take, steps to protect the confidential nature of our proprietary and trade secret information, we cannot control whether secrecy obligations will be honored or whether disputes will arise related to this information. There is a risk that the steps we have taken will not prevent misappropriation of our technology or that others might independently develop substantially equivalent products and processes or otherwise gain access to our technology. In addition, we cannot rule out that we will not be subjected to claims from others that we are misappropriating their trade secrets or confidential proprietary information. We seek to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, and licensees. We cannot guarantee that those parties will not violate these agreements, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. We cannot be certain that we will, in connection with every relationship, be able to maintain the confidentiality of our technology, which if released could materially affect our business. To the extent that our licensees develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our products, disputes may arise as to the ownership of the proprietary rights to this information. These inventions or processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of these persons or their full-time employers. We could be required to make payments to the owners of these inventions or processes, in the form of either cash or equity, or a combination of both. Litigation. From time to time we are engaged as a defendant and/or plaintiff in litigation in the ordinary course of business. Due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation, were a legal proceeding to be decided adversely against us and of a magnitude that reached a materiality threshold, such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 