Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the general investment risks and those factors set forth throughout this document, including those set forth under the caption “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information,” the following risks should be considered regarding our Company. We have a history of losses and a high fixed cost operating base and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. We experienced operating losses of approximately $15.5 million, $41.2 million and $88.5 million in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. We reported a net loss of $25.9 million, $42.0 million and $97.8 million in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in future fiscal years. Our television home shopping business operates with a high fixed cost base, primarily driven by fixed fees under distribution agreements with cable and direct-to-home satellite providers to carry our programming. In order to operate on a profitable basis, we must reach and maintain sufficient annual sales revenues to cover our high fixed cost base and/or negotiate a reduction in this cost structure. If our sales levels are not sufficient to cover our operating expenses, our ability to reduce operating expenses in the near term will be limited by the fixed cost base. In that case, our earnings, cash balance and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. If we do not reverse our current trend of operating losses, we could reduce our operating cash resources to the point where we will not have sufficient liquidity to meet the ongoing cash commitments and obligations to continue operating our business. As of January 29, 2011, we had approximately $46.5 million in unrestricted cash, with an additional $5.0 million of restricted cash used to secure letters of credit. We expect to use our cash to fund any further operating losses, to finance our working capital requirements and to make necessary capital expenditures in order to operate our business. We also have significant future commitments for our cash, which primarily includes payments for cable and satellite program distribution obligations, including a deferred payment obligation to a service provider of approximately $24 million, $12 million of which was paid in February 2011 and $12 million of which is due in March 2012; Redemption of our Series B redeemable preferred stock for $40.9 million; and repayment of our $25 million term loan. Based on our current projections for fiscal 2011, we believe that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to maintain liquidity to fund our normal business operations over the next twelve months. However, our amended and restated shareholder agreement with GE Equity and NBCU requires the consent of GE Equity in order for us to issue new equity securities and to incur indebtedness above certain thresholds, and there can be no assurance that we would receive such consent if we made a request. Furthermore, our term loan facility includes certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, as well as restrictions on our ability to make material changes in the nature of our business, both of which may be necessary in times of liquidity constraints. Therefore, there can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to raise additional capital or reduce spending to have sufficient liquidity to meet our ongoing cash commitments and obligations to continue operating our business. Any issuances of additional equity, which could include GE Equity’s exercise of its warrant for six million shares of our common stock, and which will include the issuance of shares of our common stock valued at $4 million to NBCU on May 15, 2011, are dilutive to our existing shareholders. 17 Table of Contents The failure to secure suitable placement for our television programming and the expansion of digital cable systems could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain television viewers and could result in a decrease in revenue. We are dependent upon our ability to compete for television viewers. Effectively competing for television viewers is dependent on our ability to secure placement of our television programming within a suitable programming tier at a desirable channel position. The majority of cable operators now offer cable programming on a digital basis. While the growth of digital cable systems may over time make it possible for our programming to be more widely distributed, there are several risks as well. The primary risks associated with the growth of digital cable are demonstrated by the following: • we could experience a reduction in the growth rate or an absolute decline in sales per digital tier subscriber because of the increased number of channels offered on digital systems competing for the same number of viewers and the higher channel location we typically are assigned in digital tiers; • more competitors may enter the marketplace as additional channel capacity is added; and • more programming options being available to the viewing public in the form of new television networks and time-shifted viewing (e.g., personal video recorders, video-on-demand, interactive television and streaming video over broadband internet connections). Failure to adapt to these risks will result in lower revenue and may harm our results of operations. In addition, failure to anticipate and adapt to technological changes in a cost-effective manner that meets customer demands and evolving industry standards will also reduce our revenue, harm our results of operations and financial condition and have a negative impact on our business. We may not be able to expand or could lose some of our existing programming distribution if we cannot negotiate profitable distribution agreements. We are seeking to continue to reduce the costs associated with our cable and satellite distribution agreements. However, while we were able to achieve reductions in such costs during fiscal 2010 on a per unit level without a loss in households, there can be no assurance that we will achieve comparable cost reductions in the future or that we will be able to maintain or grow our households on financial terms that are profitable to us. It is possible that we may need to reduce our programming distribution in certain systems if we are unable to obtain appropriate financial terms. Failure to successfully renew agreements covering a material portion of our existing cable and satellite households on acceptable financial and other terms could adversely affect our future growth, sales revenues and earnings unless we are able to arrange for alternative means of broadly distributing our television programming. NBCU, GE Equity and Comcast as the majority owner of NBCU, have the ability to exert significant influence over us and have the right to disapprove of certain actions by us. As a result of their equity ownership in our Company, NBCU (and Comcast, as the majority owner of NBCU) and GE Equity together are currently our largest shareholder and have the ability to exert significant influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, adoption of equity-based compensation plans and approval of mergers or other significant corporate events. Through the provisions in the amended and restated shareholder agreement and certificate of designation for the Series B redeemable preferred stock, NBCU (and Comcast, as the majority owner of NBCU) and GE Equity also have the right to block us from taking certain actions that might otherwise be in the interests of our other shareholders (as discussed in greater detail under “Business — Strategic Relationships — Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement” above). Expiration or termination of the NBC branding license would require us to pursue a new branding strategy that may not be successful. We have branded our television home shopping network and internet site as ShopNBC and ShopNBC.com, respectively, under an exclusive, worldwide licensing agreement with NBCU for the use of NBC trademarks, service marks and domain names. The license agreement continues through May 2012, with an option to extend the term through May 2013 upon the mutual agreement of both parties. We do not have the right to automatic renewal at 18 Table of Contents the end of the extension period, and consequently may choose or be required to pursue a new branding strategy in the next 12-24 months which may not be as successful as the NBC brand with current or potential customers. NBCU also has the right to terminate the license prior to the end of the license term in certain circumstances, including without limitation in the event of a breach by us of the terms of the license agreement, upon certain changes of control, upon our inability to pay our debts as they become due, and upon NBCU’s failure to own a certain percentage of our outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis (as discussed in greater detail under “Business — Strategic Relationships — NBCU Trademark License Agreement” above). Our directors, executive officers and principal shareholders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, over 38% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these shareholders, acting together, would have the ability to control the management and affairs of our Company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Competition in the general merchandise retailing industry and particularly the live home shopping and e-commerce sectors could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. As a general merchandise retailer, we compete for consumer expenditures with other forms of retail businesses, including other television home shopping and e-commerce retailers, infomercial companies, other types of consumer retail businesses, including traditional “brick and mortar” department stores, discount stores, warehouse stores, specialty stores, catalog and mail order retailers and other direct sellers. In the competitive television home shopping sector, we compete with QVC Network, Inc., HSN, Inc. and Jewelry Television, as well as a number of smaller “niche” home shopping competitors. QVC Network, Inc and HSN, Inc. both are substantially larger than we are in terms of annual revenues and customers, their programming is more broadly available to U.S. households than is our programming and in many markets they have more favorable channel locations than we have. The internet retailing industry is also highly competitive, with numerous e-commerce websites competing in every product category we carry, in addition to the websites operated by the other television home shopping companies. This competition in the internet retailing sector makes it more challenging and expensive for us to attract new customers, retain existing customers and maintain desired gross margin levels. We may not be able to maintain our satellite services in certain situations, beyond our control, which may cause our programming to go off the air for a period of time and cause us to incur substantial additional costs. Our programming is presently distributed to cable systems, full power television stations and satellite dish operators via a leased communications satellite transponder. Satellite service may be interrupted due to a variety of circumstances beyond our control, such as satellite transponder failure, satellite fuel depletion, governmental action, preemption by the satellite service provider, solar activity and service failure. The agreement provides us with preemptible back-up service if satellite transmission is interrupted under certain conditions. In the event of a serious transmission interruption where back-up service is not available, we may need to enter into new arrangements, resulting in substantial additional costs and the inability to broadcast our signal for some period of time. 19 Table of Contents The FCC could limit must-carry rights, which would impact distribution of our television home shopping programming and might impair the value of our Boston FCC license. The Federal Communications Commission, known as the FCC, issued a public notice on May 4, 2007 stating that it was updating the public record for a petition for reconsideration filed in 1993 and still pending before the FCC. The petition challenges the FCC’s prior determination to grant the same mandatory cable carriage (or “must-carry”) rights for TV broadcast stations carrying home shopping programming that the FCC’s rules accord to other TV stations. The time period for comments and reply comments regarding the reconsideration closed in August 2007, and we submitted comments supporting the continuation of must-carry rights for home shopping stations. If the FCC decides to change its prior determination and withdraw must-carry rights for home shopping stations as a result of this updating of the public record, we could lose our current carriage distribution on cable systems in three markets: Boston, Pittsburgh and Seattle, which currently constitute approximately 3.4 million full-time equivalent households, or FTE’s, receiving our programming. We own our Boston television station and have carriage contracts with the third party Pittsburgh and Seattle television stations. In addition, if must-carry rights for home shopping stations are withdrawn, it may not be possible to replace these FTE’s on commercially reasonable terms and the carrying value of our Boston FCC license ($23.1 million as of January 29, 2011) may become impaired. We may be subject to product liability claims for on-air misrepresentations or if people or properties are harmed by products sold by us. Products sold by us and representations related to these products may expose us to potential liability from claims by purchasers of such products, subject to our rights, in certain instances, to seek indemnification against this liability from the suppliers or manufacturers of the products. In addition to potential claims of personal injury, wrongful death or damage to personal property, the live unscripted nature of our television broadcasting may subject us to claims of misrepresentation by our customers, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. We maintain, and have generally required the manufacturers and vendors of these products to carry, product liability and errors and omissions insurance. There can be no assurance that we will maintain this coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that this insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims or even be available with respect to any particular claim. There also can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to maintain this insurance or that this coverage will be adequate or available with respect to any particular claims. Product liability claims could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our ValuePay installment payment program could lead to significant unplanned credit losses if our credit loss rate was to materially deteriorate. We utilize an installment payment program called ValuePay that entitles customers to purchase merchandise and generally pay for the merchandise in two or more equal monthly installments. As of January 29, 2011 we had approximately $82.7 million due from customers under the ValuePay installment program. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. There is no guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rate that we have in the past or that losses will be within current provisions. A significant increase in our credit losses above what we have been experiencing could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights, could subject us to additional liabilities. We market and provide a broad range of merchandise through multiple channels. As a result, we are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions which are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding consumer protection, privacy, the regulation of retailers generally, the importation, sale and promotion of merchandise and the operation of warehouse facilities, as well as laws and regulations applicable to the internet and businesses engaged in e-commerce. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and proceedings against us by governmental agencies and consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could decrease demand for merchandise offered by us, increase costs and subject us to additional liabilities. Finally, certain of these regulations impact our marketing efforts. 20 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims by consumers and state and federal authorities for security breaches involving customer information, which could materially harm our reputation and business. In order to operate our business we take orders for our products from customers. This requires us to obtain personal information from these customers including credit card numbers. Although we take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect customer information, there is still the risk that external or internal security breaches could occur. In addition, new tools and discoveries by third parties in computer or communications technology or software or other developments may facilitate or result in a future compromise or breach of our computer systems. Such compromises or breaches could result in significant liability or costs to us from consumer lawsuits for monetary redress, state and federal authorities for fines and penalties, and could also lead to interruptions in our operations and negative publicity causing damage to our reputation and limiting customers’ willingness to purchase products from us. In the recent past, a major discount retailer and a credit reporting agency experienced theft of credit card numbers of millions of consumers resulting in multi-million dollar fines and consumer settlement costs, FTC audit requirements, and significant internal administrative costs. Nearly all of our sales are paid for by customers using credit or debit cards and the increasingly heightened Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) standards regarding the storage and security of customer information could potentially impact our ability to accept card brands Nearly all of ShopNBC’s customers pay for purchases via a credit or debit card. Credit and debit card brand issuers continue to heighten PCI standards that are applicable to all merchants who accept these cards. These standards primarily pertain to the processes and procedures for secure storage of customer data. Failure to comply with PCI standards, as required by card issuers, could result in card brand fines and/or the possible inability for us to accept a card brand. Our inability to accept one or all card brands could materially affect sales in a negative manner. We depend on relationships with numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and suppliers; a decrease in product quality or an increase in product cost, or the unanticipated loss of several of our larger suppliers, could impact our sales. We procure merchandise from numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and suppliers generally pursuant to short-term contracts and purchase orders. Our ability to identify and establish relationships with these parties, as well as access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner on acceptable terms and at acceptable costs, can be challenging. We depend on the ability of these parties in the U.S. and abroad to timely produce and deliver goods that meet applicable quality standards, which is impacted by a number of factors not within the control of these parties, such as political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs, among others, and to deliver products that meet or exceed our customers’ expectations. Our failure to identify new vendors and manufacturers, maintain relationships with a significant number of existing vendors and manufacturers and/or access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner could cause us to miss customer delivery dates or delay scheduled promotions, which would result in the failure to meet customer expectations and could cause customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to source merchandise in sufficient quantities, which could result in lost sales. It is possible that one or more of our larger suppliers could experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, or otherwise could determine to cease doing business with us. During fiscal 2010, products purchased from one vendor accounted for approximately 18% of our consolidated net sales. While we have periodically experienced the loss of a major vendor, if a number of our larger vendors ceased doing business with us, this could materially and adversely impact our sales and profitability on a short term basis. Many of our key functions are concentrated in a single location, and a natural disaster could seriously impact our ability to operate. Our television broadcast studios, internet operations, IT systems, merchandising team, inventory control systems, executive offices and finance/accounting functions, among others, are centralized in our adjacent offices at 6740 and 6690, Shady Oak Road in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. In addition, our only fulfillment and distribution facility is centralized at a location in Bowling Green, Kentucky. A natural disaster, such as a tornado, could 21 Table of Contents seriously disrupt our ability to continue or resume normal operations for some period of time. While we have certain business continuity plans in place, no assurances can be given as to how quickly we would be able to resume operations and how long it may take to return to normal operations. We could incur substantial financial losses above and beyond what may be covered by applicable insurance policies, and may experience a loss of customers, vendors and employees during the recovery period. We could be subject to additional sales tax collection obligations and claims for uncollected amounts. A number of states have adopted new legislation that would require the collection of state and/or local taxes on transactions originating on the internet or by other out-of-state retailers, such as home shopping, infomercial and catalog companies. In some cases these new laws seek to establish grounds for asserting “nexus” by the out-of-state retailer in the applicable state, and are being challenged by internet and other retailers under federal constitutional grounds. Adding sales tax to our internet transactions could negatively impact consumer demand. ShopNBC partners with numerous affiliate companies across the country to publicize links from different websites to our website, ShopNBC.com. In 2008, the state of New York enacted legislation which required certain sellers like us to collect sales tax on our New York sales if we utilized New York “resident representatives”, which term was intended to include internet companies that publicize e-commerce retailers through links from different websites to the e-commerce retailer’s website. Court challenges to this tax have, to date, been unsuccessful. North Carolina and Rhode Island have passed similar laws and several other state legislatures, including California, are considering similar legislation. As a result of this legislation as well as other legislation passed, we registered and started collecting sales tax in New York, North Carolina and Colorado. If this trend continues and the laws are upheld after legal challenges, we could be required to collect additional state and local taxes which could negatively impact sales as well as creating an additional administrative burden which could be costly to the business. We place a significant reliance on technology and information management tools to run our existing businesses, the failure of which could adversely impact our operations. Our businesses are dependent, in part, on the use of sophisticated technology, some of which is provided to us by third parties. These technologies include, but are not necessarily limited to, satellite based transmission of our programming, use of the internet in relation to our on-line business, new digital technology used to manage and supplement our television broadcast operations and a network of complex computer hardware and software to manage an ever increasing need for information and information management tools. The failure of any of these technologies, or our inability to have this technology supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. Although we have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into our computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect us against all potential issues or disaster occurrences related to the loss of any such technologies or their use. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 