Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the general investment risks and those factors set forth throughout this document, including those set forth under the caption “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information,” the following risks should be considered regarding our company. We launched a new business strategy after unsuccessful efforts to sell our company in fiscal 2008. Beginning in the fall of 2008, the board of directors, with the assistance of financial and legal advisors, pursued a strategy to find a purchaser of the company or a new strategic partner. This effort ended in January 2009 without a transaction taking place. At this time, Keith Stewart was promoted to chief executive officer of our company, and under his leadership, we are currently focused on executing a new strategy for ShopNBC that is designed to grow EBITDA levels and increase revenues. In support of this strategy, we are pursuing the following actions: (i) growing new and active customers while improving household penetration, (ii) reducing our operating expenses to reverse our operating losses, (iii) continue renegotiating cable and satellite carriage contracts where we have cost savings opportunities, (iv) broadening and optimizing our mix of product categories offered on television and the internet in order to appeal to a broader population of potential customers, (v) lowering the average selling price of our products in order to increase the size and purchase frequency of our customer base, (vi) growing our internet business by providing broader and internet-only merchandise offering, and (vii) improving the shopping experience and our customer service in order to retain and attract more customers. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement this new strategy on a timeline that would lead to a successful turnaround of operating results before we exhaust available cash and other liquidity resources. We have a history of losses and a high fixed cost operating base and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. We experienced operating losses of approximately $41.2 million, $88.5 million and $23.1 million in fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. We reported a net loss of $42.0 in fiscal 2009 and a net loss in fiscal 2008 of $97.8 million. While we reported net income of $22.5 million in fiscal 2007, this was due to the $40.2 million pre-tax gain we recorded on the sale of our equity interest in Ralph Lauren Media, LLC, operator of the polo.com website. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in future fiscal years. Our television home shopping business operates with a high fixed cost base, primarily driven by fixed fees under distribution agreements with cable and satellite system operators to carry our programming. In order to operate on a profitable basis, we must reach and maintain sufficient annual sales revenues to cover our high fixed cost base and/or negotiate a reduction in this cost structure. If our sales levels are not sufficient to cover our operating expenses, our ability to reduce operating expenses in the near term will be limited by the fixed cost base. In that case, our earnings, cash balance and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. If we do not reverse our current trend of operating losses, we could reduce our operating cash resources to the point where we will not have sufficient liquidity to meet the ongoing cash commitments and obligations to continue operating our business. We have limited unrestricted cash to fund our business, $17.0 million as of January 30, 2010 (with an additional $5.1 million of cash that is used to secure letters of credit and similar arrangements), and have a history of operating losses. We expect to use our cash to fund any further operating losses, to finance our working capital requirements and to make necessary capital expenditures in order to operate our business. We also have significant future commitments for our cash, primarily payments for our cable and satellite program distribution obligations and redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock. If our vendors or service providers were to demand a shift from our current payment terms to upfront prepayments or require cash reserves, this will have a significant adverse impact on our available cash balance and our ability to meet the ongoing commitments and obligations of our business. If 17 Table of Contents we are not able to attain profitability and generate positive cash flows from operations or obtain cash from other financing sources in addition to our $20 million secured bank line of credit facility, we may not have sufficient liquidity to continue operating. In addition, our credit agreement with our secured lender requires compliance with various operating and financial covenants (as discussed further in footnote 10 in the accompanying consolidated financial statement), and if we are unable to comply with those covenants, our access to our secured bank line of credit may be restricted or we may even be prohibited from accessing those funds. Based on our current projections for fiscal 2010, we believe that our existing cash balances, our credit line, our ability to raise additional financing and the ability to structure transactions in a manner reflective of capital availability will be sufficient to maintain liquidity to fund our normal business operations through fiscal 2010. However, there can be no assurance that we will meet our projections for 2010 or that, if required, the Company would be able to raise additional capital or reduce spending sufficiently to maintain the necessary liquidity. Our shareholders agreement with GE and NBC Universal require their consent in order for the Company to issue new equity securities above certain threshholds, and there can be no assurance that we would receive such consent if we made a request. If we did issue additional equity, it would be dilutive to our existing shareholders. If we sought to and were successful in incurring indebtedness from sources other than our existing line of credit arrangement to raise additional capital, there would be additional interest expense associated with such funding, which expense could be substantial. The failure to secure suitable placement for our television programming and the expansion of digital cable systems could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain television viewers and could result in a decrease in revenue. We are dependent upon our ability to compete for television viewers. Effectively competing for television viewers is dependent on our ability to secure placement of our television programming within a suitable programming tier at a desirable channel position. The majority of cable operators now offer cable programming on a digital basis. While the growth of digital cable systems may over time make it possible for our programming to be more widely distributed, there are several risks as well. The primary risks associated with the growth of digital cable are demonstrated by the following: • we could experience a reduction in the growth rate or an absolute decline in sales per digital tier subscriber because of the increased number of channels offered on digital systems competing for the same number of viewers and the higher channel location we typically are assigned in digital tiers; • more competitors may enter the marketplace as additional channel capacity is added; and • more programming options being available to the viewing public in the form of new television networks and time-shifted viewing (e.g., personal video recorders, video-on-demand, interactive television and streaming video over broadband internet connections). Failure to adapt to these risks will result in lower revenue and may harm our results of operations. In addition, failure to anticipate and adapt to technological changes in a cost-effective manner that meets customer demands and evolving industry standards will also reduce our revenue, harm our results of operations and financial condition and have a negative impact on our business. We may not be able to continue to expand or could lose some of our programming distribution if we cannot negotiate profitable distribution agreements or because of the ongoing shift from analog to digital programming. We are seeking to continue to materially reduce the costs associated with our cable and satellite distribution agreements. However, while we were able to achieve significant reductions in such costs during fiscal 2009 without a loss in households, there can be no assurance that we will achieve comparable cost reductions in the future or that we will be able to maintain or grow our households on financial terms that are profitable to us. It is possible that we would reduce our programming distribution in certain systems if we are unable to obtain appropriate financial terms. Failure to successfully renew agreements covering a material portion of our existing cable and satellite households on acceptable financial and other terms could adversely affect our future growth, sales revenues and earnings unless we are able to arrange for alternative means of broadly distributing our television programming. 18 Table of Contents NBCU and GE Equity have the ability to exert significant influence over us and have the right to disapprove of certain actions by us. As a result of their equity ownership in our company, NBCU and GE Equity together are currently our largest shareholder and have the ability to exert significant influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, adoption of equity-based compensation plans and approval of mergers or other significant corporate events. Through the provisions in the shareholder agreement and certificate of designation for the preferred stock, NBCU and GE Equity also have the right to block us from taking certain actions (as discussed in greater detail under “Business — Strategic Relationships — Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement” above). The interests of NBCU and GE Equity may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, and thus they may block us from taking actions that might otherwise be in the interests of our other shareholders. Expiration of the NBC branding license would require us to pursue a new branding strategy that may not be successful. We have branded our television home shopping network and internet site as ShopNBC and ShopNBC.com, respectively, under an exclusive, worldwide licensing agreement with NBCU for the use of NBC trademarks, service marks and domain names that continues until May 2011. We do not have the right to automatic renewal at the end of the license term, and consequently may choose or be required to pursue a new branding strategy in the next 12 months which may not be as successful as the NBC brand with current or potential customers. NBCU also has the right to terminate the license prior to the end of the license term in certain circumstances, including without limitation in the event of a breach by us of the terms of the license agreement or upon certain changes of control (as discussed in greater detail under “Business — Strategic Relationships — NBCU Trademark License Agreement” above). Competition in the general merchandise retailing industry and particularly the live home shopping and e-commerce sectors could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. As a general merchandise retailer, we compete for consumer expenditures with other forms of retail businesses, including other television home shopping and e-commerce retailers, infomercial companies, other types of consumer retail businesses, including traditional “brick and mortar” department stores, discount stores, warehouse stores, specialty stores, catalog and mail order retailers and other direct sellers. In the competitive television home shopping sector, we compete with QVC Network, Inc., HSN, Inc. and Jewelry Television, as well as a number of smaller “niche” home shopping competitors. QVC Network, Inc and HSN, Inc. both are substantially larger than we are in terms of annual revenues and customers, their programming is more broadly available to U.S. households than is our programming and in many markets they have more favorable channel locations than we have. The internet retailing industry is also highly competitive, with numerous e-commerce websites competing in every product category we carry, in addition to the websites operated by the other television home shopping companies. This competition in the internet retailing sector makes it more challenging and expensive for us to attract new customers, retain existing customers and maintain desired gross margin levels. We may not be able to maintain our satellite services in certain situations, beyond our control, which may cause our programming to go off the air for a period of time and cause us to incur substantial additional costs. Our programming is presently distributed to cable systems, full power television stations and satellite dish operators via a leased communications satellite transponder. Satellite service may be interrupted due to a variety of circumstances beyond our control, such as satellite transponder failure, satellite fuel depletion, governmental action, preemption by the satellite service provider, solar activity and service failure. The agreement provides us with preemptable back-up service if satellite transmission is interrupted. Our satellite service provider recently advised us and its other customers that our current satellite had experienced an anomaly and that its customers would be transitioned to a backup satellite for continued service. However, there can be no assurance that there will be no interruption in service in connection with this transition or that, if the transition is successful, we will be able to arrange an additional preemptable back-up service. In the event of a serious transmission interruption where 19 Table of Contents back-up service is not available, we may need to enter into new arrangements, resulting in substantial additional costs and the inability to broadcast our signal for some period of time. The FCC could limit must-carry rights, which would impact distribution of our television home shopping programming and might impair the value of our Boston FCC license. The Federal Communications Commission, known as the FCC, issued a public notice on May 4, 2007 stating that it was updating the public record for a petition for reconsideration filed in 1993 and still pending before the FCC. The petition challenges the FCC’s prior determination to grant the same mandatory cable carriage (or “must-carry”) rights for TV broadcast stations carrying home shopping programming that the FCC’s rules accord to other TV stations. The time period for comments and reply comments regarding the reconsideration closed in August 2007, and we submitted comments supporting the continuation of must-carry rights for home shopping stations. If the FCC decides to change its prior determination and withdraw must-carry rights for home shopping stations as a result of this updating of the public record, we could lose our current carriage distribution on cable systems in three markets: Boston, Pittsburgh and Seattle, which currently constitute approximately 3.2 million full-time equivalent households, or FTE’s, receiving our programming. We own the Boston television station and have carriage contracts with the Pittsburg and Seattle television stations. In addition, if must-carry rights for home shopping stations are withdrawn, it may not be possible to replace these FTE’s on commercially reasonable terms and the carrying value of our Boston FCC license ($23.1 million) may become further impaired. We may be subject to product liability claims for on-air misrepresentations or if people or properties are harmed by products sold by us. Products sold by us and representations related to these products may expose us to potential liability from claims by purchasers of such products, subject to our rights, in certain instances, to seek indemnification against this liability from the suppliers or manufacturers of the products. In addition to potential claims of personal injury, wrongful death or damage to personal property, the live unscripted nature of our television broadcasting may subject us to claims of misrepresentation by our customers, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. We maintain, and have generally required the manufacturers and vendors of these products to carry, product liability and errors and omissions insurance. There can be no assurance that we will maintain this coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that this insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims or even be available with respect to any particular claim. There also can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to maintain this insurance or that this coverage will be adequate or available with respect to any particular claims. Product liability claims could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our ValuePay installment payment program could lead to significant unplanned credit losses if our credit loss rate was to materially deteriorate. We utilize an installment payment program called ValuePay that entitles customers to purchase merchandise and generally pay for the merchandise in two or more equal monthly installments. As of January 30, 2010 we had approximately $62.5 million due from customers under the ValuePay installment program. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. There is no guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rate that we have in the past or that losses will not be within current provisions. A significant increase in our credit losses above what we have been experiencing could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights, could subject us to additional liabilities. We market and provide a broad range of merchandise through multiple channels. As a result, we are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions which are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding consumer protection, privacy, the regulation of retailers generally, the importation, sale and promotion of merchandise and the operation of warehouse facilities, as well as laws and regulations applicable to the internet and businesses engaged in e-commerce. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and proceedings against us by governmental agencies and consumers, which 20 Table of Contents could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could decrease demand for merchandise offered by us, increase costs and subject us to additional liabilities. Finally, certain of these regulations impact our marketing efforts. We may be subject to claims by consumers and state and federal authorities for security breaches involving customer information, which could materially harm our reputation and business. In order to operate our business we take orders for our products from customers. This requires us to obtain personal information from these customers including credit card numbers. Although we take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect customer information, there is still the risk that external or internal security breaches could occur. In addition, new tools and discoveries by third parties in computer or communications technology or software or other developments may facilitate or result in a future compromise or breach of our computer systems. Such compromises or breaches could result in significant liability or costs to us from consumer lawsuits for monetary redress, state and federal authorities for fines and penalties, and could also lead to interruptions in our operations and negative publicity causing damage to our reputation and limiting customers’ willingness to purchase products from us. Recently, a major discount retailer and a credit reporting agency experienced theft of credit card numbers of millions of consumers resulting in multi-million dollar fines and consumer settlement costs, FTC audit requirements, and significant internal administrative costs. The unanticipated loss of several of our larger vendors could impact our sales on a temporary basis. It is possible that one or more of our larger vendors could experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, or otherwise could determine to cease doing business with us. While we have periodically experienced the loss of a major vendor, if a number of our current larger vendors ceased doing business with us, this could materially and adversely impact our sales and profitability on a short term basis. Many of our key functions are concentrated in a single location, and a natural disaster could seriously impact our ability to operate. Our television broadcast studios, internet operations, IT systems, merchandising team, inventory control systems, executive offices and finance/accounting functions, among others, are centralized in our adjacent offices at 6740 and 6690, Shady Oak Road in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. In addition, our only fulfillment and distribution facility is centralized at a location in Bowling Green, Kentucky. A natural disaster, such as a tornado, could seriously disrupt our ability to continue or resume normal operations for some period of time. While we have certain business continuity plans in place, no assurances can be given as to how quickly we would be able to resume operations and how long it may take to return to normal operations. We could incur substantial financial losses above and beyond what may be covered by applicable insurance policies, and may experience a loss of customers, vendors and employees during the recovery period. We could be subject to additional sales tax collection obligations and claims for uncollected amounts. A number of states have adopted new legislation that would require the collection of state and/or local taxes on transactions originating on the internet or by other out-of-state retailers, such as home shopping, infomercial and catalog companies. In some cases these new laws seek to establish grounds for asserting “nexus” by the out-of-state retailer in the applicable state, and are being challenged by internet and other retailers under federal constitutional grounds. However, if this trend continues and the laws are upheld after legal challenges, we could be required to collect additional state and local taxes which could negatively impact sales as well as creating an additional administrative burden which could be costly to the business. In addition, the state of North Carolina is seeking to assert claims for uncollected state sales taxes going back a number of years against out-of-state retailers, including our company. The retailers subject to these claims by North Carolina include major national internet-based retailers and catalog companies. We intend to vigorously contest these efforts by North Carolina. 21 Table of Contents We place a significant reliance on technology and information management tools to run our existing businesses, the failure of which could adversely impact our operations. Our businesses are dependent, in part, on the use of sophisticated technology, some of which is provided to us by third parties. These technologies include, but are not necessarily limited to, satellite based transmission of our programming, use of the internet in relation to our on-line business, new digital technology used to manage and supplement our television broadcast operations and a network of complex computer hardware and software to manage an ever increasing need for information and information management tools. The failure of any of these technologies, or our inability to have this technology supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. Although we have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into our computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect us against all potential issues or disaster occurrences related to the loss of any such technologies or their use. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 