Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the general investment risks and those factors set forth throughout this document, including those set forth under the caption “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information,” the following risks should be considered regarding our company. We have a history of losses and a high fixed cost operating base and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. We experienced operating losses from continuing operations of approximately $23.1 million, $9.5 million and $18.6 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. While we reported net income per basic and diluted share 17 Table of Contents in fiscal 2007, this was due to the $40.2 million pre-tax gain we recorded on the sale of our equity interest in Ralph Lauren Media, LLC, operator of the polo.com website. We reported a net loss in fiscal 2006 and 2005. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in future fiscal years. In addition, our television home shopping business operates with a high fixed cost base, primarily driven by fixed annual fees under multi-year contracts with cable and satellite system operators to carry our programming. In order to operate on a profitable basis, we must reach and maintain sufficient annual sales revenues to cover our high fixed cost base and/or negotiate a reduction in this cost structure. In the event we do not achieve our expected sales revenue targets or experience an unanticipated decline in sales, our ability to reduce operating expenses in the near term will be limited by the fixed cost base. In that case, our earnings and growth prospects could be adversely affected. A majority of our cable and satellite distribution agreements are scheduled to expire at the end of 2008 and it may be difficult or more costly to renew these agreements for additional terms. We have entered into affiliation agreements that represent approximately 1,400 cable systems that require each operator to offer our television home shopping programming substantially on a full-time basis over their systems. The stated terms of the affiliation agreements typically ranged originally from three to twelve years. Under certain circumstances, the television operators may cancel the agreements prior to their expiration. If these agreements are terminated, the termination may materially or adversely affect our business. Cable and satellite distribution agreements representing a majority of the total cable and satellite households who currently receive our television programming are scheduled to expire at the end of 2008. While we and NBCU, as our agent, have begun discussions with certain cable and satellite system operators regarding extensions or renewals of these agreements, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in negotiating renewal contracts with all the existing systems, or that the financial and other terms of renewal will be on acceptable terms. Failure to successfully renew carriage agreements covering a material portion of our existing cable and satellite households on acceptable financial and other terms could adversely affect our future growth, sales revenues and earnings unless we were able to arrange for alternative means of broadly distributing our television programming. In addition, unless we and NBCU mutually agree on an extension of the distribution and marketing agreement under which NBCU acts as our agent, this agreement will expire in March 2009 and this could adversely affect our ability to increase our program distribution. We may be required to issue substantial numbers of new warrants to NBCU in fiscal 2008 and 2009 in connection with successful renewals of cable and satellite distribution agreements. Under our 1999 marketing and distribution agreement with NBCU, we may be required to issue a substantial number of new warrants to NBCU upon their successful negotiation of cable and satellite distribution agreements for us, under a detailed formula outlined in the agreement. If NBCU is able successfully to negotiate renewals of all or a substantial portion of our existing distribution agreements that expire in 2008 within the financial parameters we have established and with terms of three years or longer, they could be entitled to receive additional warrants to purchase shares of our common stock under a formula (outlined in the 1999 marketing and distribution agreement) that includes factors such as the number of subscribers covered by the renewal, the length of the new distribution agreement and the market price of our common stock at the time the renewal agreement is effective. These warrants would contain a cashless exercise feature. Mandatory redemption of our Preferred Stock could have a material impact on our liquidity and cash resources. Our Class A Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock issued to GE Equity may be redeemed upon certain changes in control of our company and, in any event, may be redeemed in March 2009 upon the ten-year anniversary of its issuance (unless previously converted into common stock). If we are unable to generate positive cash flow or obtain additional capital prior to any such redemption, the requirement that we pay cash in connection with such redemption may have a material impact on our liquidity and cash resources. The aggregate redemption cost of all the preferred stock is $44,264,000. We ended fiscal 2007 with cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $59,078,000, with long-term investments of $26,306,000 and no long-term debt. The preferred stock has a redemption price of $8.29 per share and is convertible on a one-for-one basis into our common stock, and 18 Table of Contents accordingly, if the market value of our stock is lower than the redemption price immediately prior to the redemption date, GE Equity may choose to redeem its shares of preferred stock rather than exercise its right to conversion into common stock. We intend to discuss with G.E. Equity alternatives to a possible redemption but there is no assurance that any such alternative will be agreed to by us and G.E. Equity. On April 16, 2008, the trading day immediately preceding the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Trading System was $5.00. NBCU and GE Equity have the ability to exert significant influence over us and have the right to disapprove of certain actions by us. As a result of their equity ownership in our company, NBCU and GE Equity together are currently our largest shareholder and have the ability to exert significant influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, adoption of equity-based compensation plans and approval of mergers or other significant corporate events. Through the provisions in the shareholder agreement and certificate of designation for the preferred stock, NBCU and GE Equity also have the right to disapprove of certain major corporate actions by our company (as discussed under “Business — Strategic Relationships — Shareholder Agreement” above). In addition, because NBCU has the exclusive right to negotiate for the distribution of our television home shopping programming, NBCU exercises significant control on our ability to maintain or increase our program distribution. Loss of the NBC branding license would require us to pursue a new branding strategy that may not be successful and may incur significant additional expense. We have branded our television home shopping network and internet site as ShopNBC and ShopNBC.com, respectively, under an exclusive, worldwide licensing agreement with NBCU for the use of NBC trademarks, service marks and domain names that continues until May 2011. We do not have the right to automatic renewal at the end of the license term, and consequently may be required to pursue a new branding strategy which may not be as successful as the NBC brand with current or potential customers, and which may involve significant additional expense. In addition, there are limitations and conditions to our use of the license, which may under certain circumstances restrict us from pursuing business opportunities outside of our current scope of operations. NBCU also has the right to terminate the license prior to the end of the license term in the event of a breach by us of the terms of the license agreement or upon certain changes of control, as outlined in greater detail in “Business — Strategic Relationships — NBC Trademark License Agreement” above. Intense competition in the general merchandise retailing industry and particularly the live home shopping and e-commerce sectors could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. As a general merchandise retailer, we compete for consumer expenditures with other forms of retail businesses, including department, discount, warehouse and specialty stores, television home shopping, e-commerce businesses, mail order and catalog companies, and other direct sellers. The home shopping industry is highly competitive, with the two largest competitors being HSN and QVC. QVC and HSN offer home shopping programming similar to our programming, and are well established, reach a significantly larger percentage of United States television households than we do, and in many markets have more favorable channel locations than we have. QVC is owned by Liberty Media Corp., while HSN is a wholly owned subsidiary of InterActiveCorp. Liberty Media and InterActiveCorp are larger, more diversified and have greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than us. The internet retailing industry is also highly competitive, with numerous e-commerce websites competing in every product category we carry, in addition to the websites operated by the other television home shopping companies. This competition in the internet retailing sector makes it more challenging and expensive for us to attract new customers, retain existing customers and maintain desired gross margin levels. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain our satellite services in certain situations, beyond our control, which may cause our programming to go off the air for a period of time and incur substantial additional costs. Our programming is presently distributed to cable systems, full power television stations and satellite dish owners via a leased communications satellite transponder. In the future, satellite service may be interrupted due to a variety of circumstances beyond our control, such as satellite transponder failure, satellite fuel depletion, governmental action, preemption by the satellite service provider, solar activity and service failure. The agreement provides us with preemptable back-up service if satellite transmission is interrupted. However, there can be no assurance if satellite transmission is so interrupted that we will be able to utilize existing back-up transponder or satellite capacity. In the event of any transmission interruption, we may need to enter into new arrangements, resulting in substantial additional costs and the inability to broadcast our signal for some period of time. The FCC may limit must-carry rights, which would impact distribution of our television home shopping programming and might impair the value of our Boston FCC license. The Federal Communications Commission, known as the FCC, issued a public notice on May 4, 2007 stating that it was updating the public record for a petition for reconsideration filed in 1993 and still pending before the FCC. The petition challenges the FCC’s prior determination to grant the same mandatory cable carriage (or “must-carry”) rights for TV broadcast stations carrying home shopping programming that the FCC’s rules accord to other TV stations. The time period for comments and reply comments regarding the reconsideration closed in August 2007, and we submitted comments supporting the continuation of must-carry rights for home shopping stations. If the FCC decides to change its prior determination and withdraw must-carry rights for home shopping stations as a result of this updating of the public record, we could lose our current carriage distribution on cable systems in three markets: Boston, Pittsburgh and Seattle, which currently constitute approximately 3.2 million full-time equivalent households, or FTE’s, receiving our programming. We own the Boston television station and have carriage contracts with the Pittsburg and Seattle television stations. In addition, if must-carry rights for home shopping stations are withdrawn, it may not be possible to replace these FTE’s on commercially reasonable terms and the carrying value of our Boston television station ($31.9 million) may become partially impaired. We may be subject to product liability claims for on air misrepresentations or if people or properties are harmed by products sold by us. Products sold by us and representations related to these products may expose us to potential liability from claims by purchasers of such products, subject to our rights, in certain instances, to seek indemnification against this liability from the suppliers or manufacturers of the products. In addition to potential claims of personal injury, wrongful death or damage to personal property, the live unscripted nature of our television broadcasting may subject us to claims of misrepresentation by our customers, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. We maintain, and have generally required the manufacturers and vendors of these products to carry, product liability and errors and omissions insurance. There can be no assurance that we will maintain this coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that this insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims or even be available with respect to any particular claim. There also can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to maintain this insurance or that this coverage will be adequate or available with respect to any particular claims. Product liability claims could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our ValuePay installment payment program could lead to significant unplanned credit losses if our credit loss rate was to deteriorate. We utilize an installment payment program called ValuePay that entitles customers to purchase merchandise and generally pay for the merchandise in two to five equal monthly installments. As of February 2, 2008 we had approximately $100 million due from customers under the ValuePay installment program. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. While credit losses have historically been within our estimates for such losses, during fiscal 2007, we saw a significant increase in bad debt write offs due to the recent deterioration of consumer credit. Hence, there is no guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rate that we have in the past or that losses will not 20 Table of Contents continue to increase or not be within current provisions. A continued significant increase in our credit losses could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. We may be subject to claims by consumers and state and federal authorities for security breaches involving customer information, which could materially harm our reputation and business. In order to operate our business we take orders for our products from customers. This requires us to obtain personal information from these customers including credit card numbers. Although we take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect customer information, there is still the risk that external or internal security breaches could occur. In addition, new tools and discoveries by third parties in computer or communications technology or software or other developments may facilitate or result in a future compromise or breach of our computer systems. Such compromises or breaches could result in significant liability or costs to us from consumer lawsuits for monetary redress, state and federal authorities for fines and penalties, and could also lead to interruptions in our operations and negative publicity causing damage to our reputation and limiting customers’ willingness to purchase products from us. Recently, a major discount retailer and a credit reporting agency experienced theft of credit card numbers of millions of consumers resulting in multi-million dollar fines and consumer settlement costs, FTC audit requirements, and significant internal administrative costs. The expansion of digital cable systems may adversely impact our ability to compete for television viewers. The majority of cable operators now offer cable programming on a digital basis. While the growth of digital cable systems may over time make it possible for our programming to be more widely distributed and at a lower cost, there are several risks as well. First, as cable operators move our network from analog to digital tiers, we experience a loss of viewers, since at the current time less than half of all cable television subscribers choose to also subscribe to the digital tier. Second, we could experience a reduction in the growth rate or an absolute decline in sales per digital tier subscriber because of the increased number of channels offered on digital systems competing for the same number of viewers and the higher channel location we typically are assigned in digital tiers, unless we are able to offset the reduction through increased marketing efforts, greater internet-based sales or alternative distribution channels for our television programming. Such efforts may not be successful or may incur significant additional operating costs. The unanticipated loss of several of our larger vendors could impact our sales on a temporary basis. Under the current economic conditions, it is possible that one or more of our larger vendors could experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, or otherwise could determine to cease doing business with us. While we have periodically experienced the loss of a major vendor, if a number of our current larger vendors ceased doing business with us, this could materially and adversely impact our sales and profitability on a short term basis. Many of our key functions are concentrated in a single location, and a natural disaster could seriously impact our ability to operate. Our television broadcast studios, internet operations, IT systems, merchandising team, inventory control systems, executive offices and finance/accounting functions, among others, are centralized in our adjacent offices at 6740 and 6690, Shady Oak Road in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. In addition, our only fulfillment and distribution facility is centralized at a location in Bowling Green, Kentucky. A natural disaster such as a tornado could seriously disrupt our ability to continue or resume normal operations for some period of time. While we have certain business continuity plans in place, no assurances can be given as to how quickly we would be able to resume operations and how long it may take to return to normal operations. We could incur substantial financial losses above and beyond what may be covered by applicable insurance policies, and may experience a loss of customers, vendors and employees during the recovery period. 21 Table of Contents Our television home shopping and internet businesses are sensitive to general economic conditions, consumer confidence and major news events. Our businesses are sensitive to general economic conditions affecting consumer spending. Unfavorable economic conditions and/or a loss of consumer confidence may lead to a reduction in consumer spending generally and in home shopping specifically, and may lead to a reduction in consumer spending on the types of merchandise we currently offer. Additionally, our television audience and sales revenue can be significantly impacted by major world or domestic events, which divert audience attention away from our programming. Our e-commerce activities are subject to a number of general business regulations and laws regarding taxation and online commerce, which may increase our pricing or lessen consumer demand. Our e-commerce activities are subject to a number of general business regulations and laws regarding taxation and online commerce. As the role and importance of e-commerce has grown in the United States in recent years, there have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations and restrictions on companies conducting commerce through the internet, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy and protection of consumer personal information. These laws and regulations could increase the costs and liabilities associated with our e-commerce activities and increase the price of our product to consumers, without a corresponding increase in our revenue or net income. On October 31, 2007, the United States enacted a seven-year moratorium on internet access taxes, extending a ban on internet taxes that was set to expire on November 1, 2007. In addition, in November 2002, a number of states approved a multi-state agreement to simplify state sales tax laws by establishing one uniform system to administer and collect sales taxes on traditional retailers and electronic commerce merchants. The agreement became effective on October 3, 2005, although fewer than half of the states have become members by enacting implementation legislation. No prediction can be made as to whether individual states will enact legislation requiring retailers such as us to collect and remit sales taxes on transactions that occur over the internet. Adding sales tax to our internet transactions could negatively impact consumer demand. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments In connection with its review of our Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, the Commission requested that we file the financial statements of Ralph Lauren Media, LLC, in which we had a minority interest that was sold in March 2007, as of and for the year ended March 31, 2007 as an exhibit to that Form 10-K. We requested and received from the Commission a waiver to permit us to file these financial statements as an exhibit in this form 10-K. 