Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the general investment risks and those factors set forth throughout this document, including those set forth under the caption "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information," the following risks should be considered regarding our company.We have a history of losses and a high fixed cost operating base and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future.We experienced operating income (losses) of approximately $0.1 million, $(23.3) million and $(16.8) million in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. We reported net losses of $(2.5) million, $(27.7) million and $(48.1) million in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in future fiscal years.Our television shopping business operates with a high fixed cost base, primarily driven by fixed fees under distribution agreements with cable and direct-to-home satellite providers to carry our programming. In order to operate on a profitable basis, we must reach and maintain sufficient annual sales revenues to cover our high fixed cost base and/or negotiate a reduction in this cost structure. If our sales levels are not sufficient to cover our operating expenses, our ability to reduce operating expenses in the near term will be limited by the fixed cost base. In that case, our earnings, cash balance and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.Prior to fiscal 2013, we have had a historic trend of operating losses, which, if not permanently reversed, could reduce our operating cash resources to the point where we will not have sufficient liquidity to meet the ongoing cash commitments and obligations to continue operating our business.As of February 1, 2014, we had approximately $29.2 million in unrestricted cash, with an additional $2.1 million of restricted cash and investments used to secure letters of credit. We expect to use our cash and available credit line to finance our working capital requirements and to make necessary capital expenditures in order to operate our business and to fund any further operating losses. Prior to fiscal 2013, we have had a historic trend of operating losses, which, if not permanently reversed, could reduce our operating cash resources to the point where we would not be able to adequately fund working capital requirements or necessary capital expenditures. On January 31, 2014, we entered into a third amendment to our revolving credit and security agreement with PNC Bank, N.A. that, among other things, increased the size of the revolving line of credit from $50 million to $60 million and provides for a $15 million term loan on which we may draw to fund potential improvements at our distribution facility in Bowling Green, Kentucky. The expanded revolving line of credit bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus 3%. All borrowings under the amended Credit Facility mature and are payable on May 1, 2018. Maximum borrowings and available capacity under the amended revolving Credit Facility are equal to the lesser of $60 million or a calculated borrowing base comprised of eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory. Remaining capacity under the Credit Facility, currently $18.5 million, provides liquidity for working capital and general corporate purposes. 15Table of Contents We still have significant future commitments for our cash, which primarily includes payments for cable and satellite program distribution obligations and the eventual repayment of our new five year credit facility. Based on our current projections for fiscal 2014, we believe that our existing cash balances and available credit line will be sufficient to maintain liquidity to fund our normal business operations over the next twelve months. However, our amended and restated shareholder agreement with GE Equity and NBCU requires the consent of GE Equity in order for us to issue new equity securities and to incur indebtedness above certain thresholds, and there can be no assurance that we would receive this consent if we made a request. Furthermore, our amended credit facility includes certain restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, as well as restrictions on our ability to make material changes in the nature of our business, both of which may be necessary in times of liquidity constraints. Therefore, there can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to raise additional capital or reduce spending to have sufficient liquidity to meet our ongoing cash commitments and obligations to continue operating our business. Our inability to recruit and retain key employees may adversely impact our ability to sustain growth. Our continued growth is contingent, in part, on our ability to retain and recruit employees that have the distinct skills necessary for a business that demands knowledge of the general retail industry, merchandising and product sourcing, television production, televised and internet-based marketing and fulfillment. The marketplace for such employees is very competitive and limited. Our growth may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract and retain these key employees. The failure to secure suitable placement for our television programming and the use of digital technology to expand the number of channels and services available on cable, direct broadcast satellite and internet protocol TV-based video distribution systems could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain television viewers and could result in a decrease in revenue. We are dependent upon our ability to compete for television viewers. Effectively competing for television viewers is dependent, in part, on our ability to secure placement of our television programming within a suitable programming tier at a desirable channel position. The majority of multi-video programming distributors now offer programming on a digital basis. While the growth of digital cable and these other systems may over time make it possible for our programming to be more widely distributed, there are several risks as well. The primary risks associated with the growth of digital cable and alternative digital platforms are demonstrated by the following:•we could experience further declines in sales per digital tier subscriber because of the increased number of channels offered on digital systems competing for the same number of viewers and the higher channel location we typically are assigned in digital tiers;•more competitors may enter the marketplace as additional channel capacity is added;•we may not be able to successfully negotiate renewal terms for our programming distribution agreements that are favorable to us or that offer our programming to viewers within a suitable programming tier at a desirable channel position; and•more programming options being available to the viewing public in the form of new television networks and time-shifted viewing (e.g., personal video recorders, video-on-demand, interactive television and streaming video over broadband internet connections).Failure to adapt to these risks will result in lower revenue and may harm our results of operations. In addition, failure to anticipate and adapt to technological changes in a cost-effective manner that meets customer demands and evolving industry standards will also reduce our revenue, harm our results of operations and financial condition and have a negative impact on our business.We may not be able to expand or could lose some of our existing programming distribution if we cannot negotiate profitable distribution agreements.We are seeking to continue to reduce the costs associated with our cable and satellite distribution agreements. However, while we were able to achieve reductions in these costs beginning in 2008 and other reductions starting in 2013 without a loss in households, there can be no assurance that we will achieve comparable cost reductions in the future or that we will be able to maintain or grow our households on financial terms that are profitable to us. Terms of certain of our distribution agreements allow for increases in our distribution costs as a result of a variety of factors, not all of which are within our control. These factors include but are not limited to, increases in the number of subscribers receiving our programming, improvements in channel placement through lowering our channel position, the addition of a second channel or other factors. Significant changes to these factors could result in a material increase in our cost of distribution. If we are unable to negotiate new or renewal terms in our distribution agreements that are more favorable to us, our distribution costs could increase. Further, it is possible that we may need to reduce our programming distribution in certain systems if we are unable to obtain appropriate financial terms. Failure to successfully renew agreements covering a material portion of our existing cable and satellite households on acceptable financial and other terms could adversely affect our future growth, sales revenues and earnings unless we are able to arrange for alternative means of broadly distributing our television programming. 16Table of ContentsNBCU, Comcast and GE Equity have the ability to exert significant influence over us and have the right to disapprove of certain actions by us.As a result of their equity ownership in our company, NBCU (and Comcast, as the owner of all of the common equity of NBCU) and GE Equity together are currently our largest shareholders and have the ability to exert significant influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, adoption of equity-based compensation plans and approval of mergers or other significant corporate events. Through the provisions in the amended and restated shareholder agreement, NBCU (and Comcast, as the majority owner of NBCU) and GE Equity also have the right to block us from taking certain actions that our board of directors might otherwise determine to be in the interests of our other shareholders (as discussed in greater detail under "Business — Strategic Relationships — Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement" above).Our stock ownership is concentrated among a relatively small group of principal shareholders who have substantial control over us, including our directors and executive officers, and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control.GE Equity and NBCU (and Comcast, as the owner of all of the common equity of NBCU), together with their affiliates, along with our directors and executive officers, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 37% of our common stock. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, would have the ability to significantly influence or control the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these shareholders, acting together, would have the ability to significantly influence or control the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by:•delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control;•impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or•discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.Competition in the general merchandise retailing industry and particularly the live television shopping and e-commerce sectors could limit our growth and reduce our profitability.As a general merchandise retailer, we compete for consumers with other forms of retail businesses, including other television shopping and e-commerce retailers, infomercial companies, other types of consumer retail businesses, including traditional "brick and mortar" department stores, discount stores, warehouse stores, specialty stores, catalog and mail order retailers and other direct sellers. In the competitive television shopping sector, we compete with QVC Network, Inc., HSN, Inc. and Jewelry Television, as well as a number of smaller "niche" television shopping competitors. QVC Network, Inc. and HSN, Inc. both are substantially larger than we are in terms of annual revenues and customers, their programming is more broadly available to U.S. households than is our programming and in many markets they have more favorable channel locations than we have. The internet retailing industry is also highly competitive, with numerous e-commerce websites competing in every product category we carry, in addition to the websites operated by the other television shopping companies. This competition in the internet retailing sector makes it more challenging and expensive for us to attract new customers, retain existing customers and maintain desired gross margin levels.We may not be able to maintain our satellite services in certain situations, beyond our control, which may cause our programming to go off the air for a period of time and cause us to incur substantial additional costs. Our programming is presently distributed to cable systems, full power television stations and satellite dish operators via a leased communications satellite transponder. Satellite service may be interrupted due to a variety of circumstances beyond our control, such as satellite transponder failure, satellite fuel depletion, governmental action, preemption by the satellite service provider, solar activity and service failure. Our satellite transponder agreement provides us with preemptible back-up service if satellite transmission is interrupted under certain conditions. In the event of a serious transmission interruption where back-up service is not available, we may need to enter into new arrangements, resulting in substantial additional costs and the inability to broadcast our signal for some period of time.The FCC could limit must-carry rights, which would impact distribution of our television shopping programming and might impair the value of our Boston FCC license.The FCC issued a public notice on May 4, 2007 stating that it was updating the public record for a petition for reconsideration filed in 1993 and still pending before the FCC. The petition challenges the FCC’s prior determination to grant the same mandatory cable carriage (or "must-carry") rights for TV broadcast stations carrying home shopping programming that the FCC’s rules accord to other TV stations. The time period for comments and reply comments regarding the reconsideration closed in August 2007, and we submitted comments supporting the continuation of must-carry rights for home shopping stations. If the FCC decides to change its prior determination and withdraw must-carry rights for home shopping stations as a result of this updating of the public record, we could lose our current carriage distribution on cable systems in two markets: Boston and Seattle, which currently constitute 17Table of Contentsapproximately 3.2 million full-time households receiving our programming. We own our Boston television station and have a carriage contract with the third party Seattle television station. In addition, if must-carry rights for home shopping stations are withdrawn, it may not be possible to replace these households on commercially reasonable terms and the carrying value of our Boston FCC license, which has an asset carrying value of $12.0 million as of February 1, 2014, may become further impaired.We may be subject to product liability claims for on-air misrepresentations or if people or properties are harmed by products sold by us.Products sold by us and representations related to these products may expose us to potential liability from claims by purchasers of such products, subject to our rights, in certain instances, to seek indemnification against this liability from the suppliers or manufacturers of the products. In addition to potential claims of personal injury, wrongful death or damage to personal property, the live unscripted nature of our television broadcasting may subject us to claims of misrepresentation by our customers, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. We maintain, and have generally required the manufacturers and vendors of these products to carry, product liability and errors and omissions insurance. There can be no assurance that we will maintain this coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that this insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims or even be available with respect to any particular claim. There also can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to maintain this insurance or that this coverage will be adequate or available with respect to any particular claims. Product liability claims could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our Company is also subject to two FTC consent decrees, one issued in 2001 and one issued in 2003; both have a duration of 20 years. They consist of claims involving recordkeeping, compliance policies, and attention to detail on claim substantiation. Violations of these decrees could result in significant civil fines and penalties.Our ValuePay installment payment program could lead to significant unplanned credit losses if our credit loss rate was to materially deteriorate.We utilize an installment payment program called ValuePay that entitles customers to purchase merchandise and generally pay for the merchandise in two or more equal monthly installments. Our ValuePay installment program is a key element of our promotional strategy. As of February 1, 2014, we had approximately $101.7 million due from customers under the ValuePay installment program. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. There is no guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rate that we have in the past or that losses will be within current provisions. A significant increase in our credit losses above what we have been experiencing could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance.Failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations applicable to our company, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights, could subject us to additional liabilities.We market and provide a broad range of merchandise through multiple channels. As a result, we are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions which are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding consumer protection, privacy, the regulation of retailers generally, the importation, sale and promotion of merchandise and the operation of warehouse facilities, the ownership of television stations as well as laws and regulations applicable to the internet, electronic devises and businesses engaged in e-commerce. These laws and regulations may cover subject matters including taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic device certification, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, unencumbered internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites and the characteristics and quality of our products and services. Although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, vendors, manufacturers or distributors or other third-parties we do business with, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and proceedings against us by governmental agencies and consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could decrease demand for merchandise offered by us, increase costs and subject us to additional liabilities. Finally, certain of these regulations impact our marketing efforts.We may be subject to claims by consumers and state and federal authorities for security breaches involving customer information, which could materially harm our reputation and business or add significant administrative and compliance cost to our operations.In order to operate our business, which includes multiple retail channels, we take orders for our products from customers. This requires us to obtain personal information from these customers including, but not limited to, credit card numbers. Although we take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect customer information, there is still the risk that external or internal security breaches could occur, including cyber incidents. In addition, new tools and discoveries by third parties in computer or communications technology or software or other developments may facilitate or result in a future compromise or breach of our 18Table of Contentscomputer systems. Such compromises or breaches could result in data loss and/or identity theft leading to significant liability or costs to us from consumer lawsuits for monetary redress, state and federal authorities for fines and penalties, and could also lead to interruptions in our operations and negative publicity causing damage to our reputation and limiting customers’ willingness to purchase products from us. Businesses in the retail industry have experienced material sales declines after discovering data breaches, and our business could be similarly impacted. Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities. While reputations may take decades to build, a significant negative incident can erode trust and confidence, particularly if it results in adverse mainstream and social media publicity, governmental investigations or litigation. Theft of credit card numbers of consumers could result in significant dollar fines and consumer settlement costs, litigation costs, FTC audit requirements, and significant internal administrative costs.In addition to possible claims for security breaches involving customer information, the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of customer information is critical to our operations and business strategy, and we devote significant resources to protecting our customer information. The expenses associated with complying with a patchwork of state laws imposing differing security requirements depending on the residence of our customers could reduce our operating margins. As mentioned above, there have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations and restrictions on companies conducting commerce, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy and protection of consumer personal information and we may have to devote significant resources to information security. Nearly all of our sales are paid for by customers using credit or debit cards and the increasingly heightened Payment Card Industry (PCI) standards regarding the storage and security of customer information could potentially impact our ability to accept card brands.Nearly all of ShopHQ’s customers pay for purchases via a credit or debit card. Credit and debit card brand issuers continue to heighten PCI standards that are applicable to all merchants who accept these cards. These standards primarily pertain to the processes and procedures for secure storage of customer data. By virtue of the volume of our overall credit card transactions, ShopHQ is a Level 1 merchant which requires the annual completion of a formal Record of Compliance (ROC) by a Qualified Security Assessor. Failure to comply with PCI standards, as required by card issuers, could result in card brand fines and/or the possible inability for us to accept a card brand. Our inability to accept one or all card brands could materially affect sales in a negative manner. ShopHQ received an approved ROC on August 1, 2013.We depend on relationships with numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and suppliers; a decrease in product quality or an increase in product cost, or the unanticipated loss of our larger suppliers, could impact our sales.We procure merchandise from numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and suppliers generally pursuant to short-term contracts and purchase orders. Our ability to identify and establish relationships with these parties, as well as access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner on acceptable terms and at acceptable costs, can be challenging. We depend on the ability of these parties in the U.S. and abroad to timely produce and deliver goods that meet applicable quality standards, which is impacted by a number of factors not within the control of these parties, such as political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs, among others, and to deliver products that meet or exceed our customers’ expectations.Our failure to identify new vendors and manufacturers, maintain relationships with a significant number of existing vendors and manufacturers and/or access quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner could cause us to miss customer delivery dates or delay scheduled promotions, which would result in the failure to meet customer expectations and could cause customers to cancel orders or cause us to be unable to source merchandise in sufficient quantities, which could result in lost sales.It is possible that one or more of our larger suppliers could experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, or otherwise could determine to cease doing business with us. During fiscal 2013, products purchased from one vendor accounted for approximately 15% of our consolidated net sales. The unanticipated loss of this supplier or any other large supplier could impact our sales and earnings. We have periodically experienced the loss of a major vendor and if a number of our larger vendors ceased doing business with us, this could materially and adversely impact our sales and profitability.Many of our key functions are concentrated in a single location, and a natural disaster could seriously impact our ability to operate.Our television broadcast studios, internet operations, IT systems, merchandising team, inventory control systems, executive offices and finance/accounting functions, among others, are centralized in our adjacent offices at 6740 and 6690, Shady Oak Road in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. In addition, our only fulfillment and distribution facility is centralized at a location in Bowling Green, Kentucky. A natural disaster, such as a tornado, could seriously disrupt our ability to continue or resume normal operations for some period of time. While we have certain business continuity plans in place, no assurances can be given as to how quickly we would be able to resume operations and how long it may take to return to normal operations. We could incur substantial financial 19Table of Contentslosses above and beyond what may be covered by applicable insurance policies, and may experience a loss of customers, vendors and employees during the recovery period.We could be subject to additional sales tax collection obligations and claims for uncollected amounts. Over the past several years, a number of states have adopted legislation that would require out-of-state retailers to collect and remit sales tax on transactions originating on the internet or by other remote means such as television shopping, infomercial and catalog distribution. These new laws seek to assert indirect physical "nexus" by the out-of-state retailer based on either the presence in the state of e-commerce "click-thru" affiliates who are paid by the retailer to direct e-commerce traffic to the retailer through independent websites or by the presence in the state of companies with which the out-of-state retailer shares common ownership. These laws are being challenged by internet and other retailers under federal constitutional grounds, but court challenges have to date been largely unsuccessful. We continually monitor this legislation and, depending upon our facts in the state, have either registered to collect tax (such as in New York, North Carolina, Colorado, and Pennsylvania) or have confirmed that we have no direct or indirect physical relationships with the state at the time such legislation becomes effective. Several new state legislatures are introducing similar legislation each year, and federal legislation (which could require nationwide collection from all of our customers) has also been introduced in the federal House and Senate. The US Senate passed a version of this legislation (the "Mainstreet Tax Fairness Act") in May of 2013 which has not yet been voted on by the House of Representatives. If this trend continues and the laws are upheld after legal challenges, we could be required to collect additional state and local taxes in many additional jurisdictions. Adding sales tax to our internet transactions could negatively impact consumer demand, create a competitive disadvantage (if all retailers are not equally impacted), and create an additional costly administrative burden of complying with the collection laws of multiple jurisdictions. While we believe we comply with current state sales tax regulations, a successful assertion by one or more states requiring us to collect taxes where we do not do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest. We place a significant reliance on technology and information management tools and operational applications to run our existing businesses, the failure of which could adversely impact our operations.Our businesses are dependent, in part, on the use of sophisticated technology, some of which is provided to us by third parties. These technologies include, but are not necessarily limited to, satellite based transmission of our programming, use of the internet and other mobile commerce devises in relation to our on-line business, new digital technology used to manage and supplement our television broadcast operations, the age of our legacy operational applications to distribute product to our customers and a network of complex computer hardware and software to manage an ever increasing need for information and information management tools. The failure of any of these legacy systems or operational infrastructure elements, technologies, or our inability to have this technology supported, updated, expanded or integrated into new business processes or other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. Although we have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into our computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect us against all potential issues or disaster occurrences related to the loss of any such technologies or their use.We could face adverse consequences as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. As previously disclosed, the Clinton Relational Opportunity Master Fund, L.P., together with certain of its affiliates (the “Clinton Group”) has expressed opinions with respect to the operation of our business, our business strategy, corporate governance considerations, and other matters. In addition, the Clinton Group and Cannell Capital LLC, together with certain of its affiliates (“Cannell”) have previously sought to demand that we convene a special meeting of shareholders, at which the Clinton Group announced that it intended to propose, among other things, to remove a majority of our board of directors, expand the size of our board of directors and nominate a slate of directors for election to any resulting vacancies on our board of directors.Notwithstanding the deficiencies contained in the materials submitted by the Clinton Group and Cannell requesting the special meeting, we set a March 14, 2014 special meeting date to provide Company shareholders with an opportunity to consider and vote upon the proposals originally put forth by the Clinton Group and Cannell. However, in response to a February 3, 2014 announcement by the Clinton Group that it would not attend or solicit proxies in connection with the March 14, 2014 special meeting, we announced on February 4, 2014 that it had determined that it would be in the best interest of us and our shareholders to cancel the special meeting.Subsequently, on February 6, 2014, the Clinton Group and Cannell filed a Schedule 13D/A with the SEC, in which the Clinton Group and Cannell disclosed that they had terminated their status as a “group” for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 13d-5(b)(1) promulgated thereunder. In addition, the Clinton Group disclosed that it beneficially owned 4.9% of our outstanding common stock, and Cannell disclosed that it beneficially owned 4.6% of our outstanding common stock. Each of the Clinton Group and Cannell also disclosed that because their respective beneficial ownership of Company common stock had fallen below the 5% Schedule 13D reporting threshold, that the February 6, 2014 Schedule 13D/A filing constituted an “exit filing” for each of the Clinton Group, Cannell and the other reporting persons identified therein. 20Table of ContentsAlthough we no longer intend to hold a special meeting of shareholders to consider the proposals put forth by the Clinton Group and Cannell, the Clinton Group has publicly announced that it intends to pursue its proposals in connection with our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders. In addition, the Clinton Group has notified us that it intends to nominate six individuals for election to our board of directors and to submit certain by-law amendments to a vote of our shareholders at our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders. Our board of directors do not endorse the election of any of the Clinton Group’s nominees. We are not responsible for the accuracy of any information contained in any proxy solicitation materials used by the Clinton Group or any other statements that they may otherwise make.If the Clinton Group continues to pursue its proposals and nominations, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted in the following ways:•perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in the loss of business opportunities and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop new customer and vendor relationships, generate additional business with our existing customers and vendors and recruit qualified employees (or retain current employees);•engaging in proxy contests and responding to actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming and disruptive of our operations and could divert the time and attention of management and our employees away from our business operations; and•if a new group of individuals are elected to our board of directors with a specific agenda, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our business strategy and create additional value for our shareholders.These actions could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.