Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the general investment risks and those factors set forth throughout this document, including those set forth under the caption “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information,” the following risks should be considered regarding our company. We have launched a new business strategy after unsuccessful efforts to sell our company in fiscal 2008. Commencing on September 10, 2008, a special committee of our board of directors and the committee’s financial advisors, Piper Jaffray, broadly solicited expressions of interest in a purchase of our company or other strategic relationship with us. The committee also evaluated other strategic alternatives, including a distribution to shareholders through a sale of assets and liquidation of our company. The special committee did not receive any final bids from any of the parties who participated in the process. In addition, the special committee concluded that a liquidation of our company would not likely result in any distribution to our shareholders. Since the strategic review process did not result in a strategic alternative to be implemented, we are currently focused on executing a new strategy for ShopNBC as an independent company that is designed to grow EBITDA levels and increase revenues. This new strategy contains significant challenges including: (i) a requirement to significantly reduce the cost of our 18 Table of Contents current distribution agreements, (ii) broadening our merchandise mix, (iii) lowering the average selling price, (iv) growing our internet business, and (v) improving the shopping experience and customer service. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement this new strategy on a timeline that would lead to a successful turnaround of operating results before we exhaust available cash and other liquidity resources. In addition, we may be required to further write down the carrying amount of our intangible and other long-lived assets to fair value if we are unable to successfully execute our plan to significantly reduce cable and satellite distribution costs and achieve other cost-saving initiatives in the near term. We have a history of losses and a high fixed cost operating base and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in the future. We experienced operating losses of approximately $88.5 million, $23.1 million and $9.5 million in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. We reported a net loss in fiscal 2008 of $97.7 million. While we reported net income of $22.5 million in fiscal 2007, this was due to the $40.2 million pre-tax gain we recorded on the sale of our equity interest in Ralph Lauren Media, LLC, operator of the polo.com website. We reported a net loss in fiscal 2006 of $2.4 million. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in future fiscal years. Our television home shopping business operates with a high fixed cost base, primarily driven by fixed annual fees under distribution agreements with cable and satellite system operators to carry our programming. In order to operate on a profitable basis, we must reach and maintain sufficient annual sales revenues to cover our high fixed cost base and/or negotiate a reduction in this cost structure. In the event we do not achieve our expected sales targets or experience continued declines in sales, our ability to reduce operating expenses in the near term will be limited by the fixed cost base. In that case, our earnings, cash balance and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. If we do not reverse our current trend of operating losses, we could reduce our operating cash resources to the point where we will not have sufficient liquidity to meet the ongoing cash commitments and obligations to continue operating our business. We have limited cash to fund our business, $53.8 million as of January 31, 2009, as a result of our continued trend of operating losses. Among other things, we need and use our cash to fund any further operating losses, to finance our working capital requirements and to make necessary capital expenditures in order to operate our business. We also have significant future commitments for our cash, primarily payments for our cable and satellite program distribution obligations. In addition, if our vendors or service providers were to demand a shift from our current payment terms to upfront prepayments or require cash reserves, this will have a significant adverse impact on our available cash balance and our ability to meet the ongoing commitments and obligations of our business. If we are not able to attain profitability and generate positive cash flows from operations or obtain cash from other financing sources or other transactions (such as the sale of our Boston television station or other real estate assets), we may not have sufficient liquidity to continue operating. Current negative economic conditions have adversely affected our business and a continued weakening over the macroeconomic environment could further adversely affect our business. Retailers generally are particularly sensitive to adverse global economic and business conditions, in particular to the extent they result in a loss of consumer confidence and decreases in consumer spending, particularly discretionary spending. The current world-wide credit market disruptions and economic slowdown have negatively impacted consumer confidence, consumer spending and, since September 2008, our business. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions and consumer confidence will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be adversely affected. If these economic and market conditions persist, spread or deteriorate further, it will have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the recent worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could have a material adverse impact on our investment portfolio value and our ability to liquidate our auction rate securities. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets experienced credit issues during 19 Table of Contents the second half of calendar 2007 and continuing through calendar 2008, leading to liquidity disruption in failed auctions in the auction rate securities market. At January 31, 2009, our investment portfolio included auction rate securities with an estimated fair value of $15.7 million ($26.8 million original cost basis). Our auction rate securities are primarily variable rate debt instruments that have underlying securities with contractual maturities greater than ten years. Holders of auction rate securities can either sell through the auction or bid based on a desired interest rate or hold and accept the reset rate. If there are insufficient buyers, then the auction fails and holders are unable to liquidate their investment through the auction. A failed auction is not a default of the debt instrument, but does set a new interest rate in accordance with the original terms of the debt instrument. The result of a failed auction is that the auction rate security continues to pay interest in accordance with its terms. Auctions continue to be held as scheduled until the auction rate security matures or until it is called. These investment-grade auction rate securities have failed to settle in auctions beginning in fiscal 2007 and through fiscal 2008. At this time, these investments are not available to settle current obligations, are not liquid, and in the event we need to access these funds, we would not be able to do so without a loss of principal. The loss of principal could be significant if we needed to access the funds within a short time horizon and the market for auction rate securities had not returned at the time we sought to sell such securities. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $11.1 million to reflect a permanent impairment on these securities due to the continued illiquidity of these investments and uncertainty regarding what period of time they might be settled and their ultimate value. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate, we may be required to record an additional other-than-temporary impairment of these securities in future periods which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may lose distribution of our programming because we are unsuccessful in negotiating new distribution agreements for all of our current households and because of the ongoing shift from analog to digital programming. The prior distribution agreements covering a majority of our cable and satellite households expired at the end of 2008. We have negotiated renewal agreements with the system operators covering a substantial but minority percentage of these households and are in active negotiations with the operators of the remaining systems. We have written extensions where needed such that we will not lose distribution while negotiations continue with the remaining systems. However, at this time there can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing the remaining negotiations on terms acceptable to us, in which case we could lose a significant portion of our current distribution during fiscal 2009. In addition, many cable operators are moving to transition our programming (and other cable content providers as well) in local cable systems to digital instead of analog programming tiers. As this occurs, the number of households that receive our programming will decline over the next several years, because fewer households receive digital cable programming than analog. Failure to successfully renew agreements covering a material portion of our existing cable and satellite households on acceptable financial and other terms, and loss of a significant number of households due to transfers to digital programming tiers could adversely affect our future growth, sales revenues and earnings unless we are able to arrange for alternative means of broadly distributing our television programming. NBCU and GE Equity have the ability to exert significant influence over us and have the right to disapprove of certain actions by us. As a result of their equity ownership in our company, NBCU and GE Equity together are currently our largest shareholder and have the ability to exert significant influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, adoption of equity-based compensation plans and approval of mergers or other significant corporate events. Through the provisions in the shareholder agreement and certificate of designation for the preferred stock, NBCU and GE Equity also have the right to block us from taking certain actions (as discussed in greater detail under “Business — Strategic Relationships — Amended and Restated Shareholder Agreement” above). The interests of NBCU and GE Equity may differ from the interests of our other shareholders, and thus they may block us from taking actions that might otherwise be in the interests of our other shareholders. 20 Table of Contents Loss of the NBC branding license would require us to pursue a new branding strategy that may not be successful and may incur significant additional expense. We have branded our television home shopping network and internet site as ShopNBC and ShopNBC.com, respectively, under an exclusive, worldwide licensing agreement with NBCU for the use of NBC trademarks, service marks and domain names that continues until May 2011. We do not have the right to automatic renewal at the end of the license term, and consequently may be required to pursue a new branding strategy which may not be as successful as the NBC brand with current or potential customers, and which may involve significant additional expense. In addition, there are limitations and conditions to our use of the license, which may under certain circumstances restrict us from pursuing business opportunities outside of our current scope of operations. NBCU also has the right to terminate the license prior to the end of the license term in certain circumstances, including without limitation in the event of a breach by us of the terms of the license agreement or upon certain changes of control (as discussed in greater detail under “Business — Strategic Relationships — NBCU Trademark License Agreement” above). Intense competition in the general merchandise retailing industry and particularly the live home shopping and e-commerce sectors could limit our growth and reduce our profitability. As a general merchandise retailer, we compete for consumer expenditures with other forms of retail businesses, including other television home shopping and e-commerce retailers, infomercial companies, other types of consumer retail businesses, including traditional “brick and mortar” department stores, discount stores, warehouse stores, specialty stores, catalog and mail order retailers and other direct sellers. In the competitive television home shopping sector, we compete with QVC Network, Inc., HSN, Inc. and Jewelry Television, as well as a number of smaller “niche” home shopping competitors. QVC Network and HSN, Inc. both are substantially larger than we are in terms of annual revenues and customers, their programming is more broadly available to U.S. households than is our programming and in many markets they have more favorable channel locations than we have. The internet retailing industry is also highly competitive, with numerous e-commerce websites competing in every product category we carry, in addition to the websites operated by the other television home shopping companies. This competition in the internet retailing sector makes it more challenging and expensive for us to attract new customers, retain existing customers and maintain desired gross margin levels. Our businesses may not be able to accurately predict and/or respond in a timely manner to evolving customer preferences and trends and industry standards, which could result in excess inventory, related markdowns and lost sales. Our success depends, in significant part, on the ability of our businesses to accurately predict, and respond in a timely manner to, changes in customer preferences and fashion, lifestyle and other trends and industry standards. While we monitor and adjust product mix and price points in an attempt to satisfy consumer demand and respond to changing economic and business conditions, we may not be successful in these efforts, and any sustained failure could result in excess inventory and related markdowns. In addition, the e-commerce industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, frequent new service and product introductions and enhancements, as well as changing customer demands. If our businesses are not able to adapt quickly enough and/or in a cost-effective manner to these changes it could result in lost sales. We may not be able to maintain our satellite services in certain situations, beyond our control, which may cause our programming to go off the air for a period of time and cause us to incur substantial additional costs. Our programming is presently distributed to cable systems, full power television stations and satellite dish operators via a leased communications satellite transponder. In the future, satellite service may be interrupted due to a variety of circumstances beyond our control, such as satellite transponder failure, satellite fuel depletion, governmental action, preemption by the satellite service provider, solar activity and service failure. The agreement provides us with preemptable back-up service if satellite transmission is interrupted. However, there can be no assurance if satellite transmission is so interrupted that we will be able to utilize existing back-up transponder or 21 Table of Contents satellite capacity. In the event of any transmission interruption, we may need to enter into new arrangements, resulting in substantial additional costs and the inability to broadcast our signal for some period of time. The FCC could limit must-carry rights, which would impact distribution of our television home shopping programming and might impair the value of our Boston FCC license. The Federal Communications Commission, known as the FCC, issued a public notice on May 4, 2007 stating that it was updating the public record for a petition for reconsideration filed in 1993 and still pending before the FCC. The petition challenges the FCC’s prior determination to grant the same mandatory cable carriage (or “must-carry”) rights for TV broadcast stations carrying home shopping programming that the FCC’s rules accord to other TV stations. The time period for comments and reply comments regarding the reconsideration closed in August 2007, and we submitted comments supporting the continuation of must-carry rights for home shopping stations. If the FCC decides to change its prior determination and withdraw must-carry rights for home shopping stations as a result of this updating of the public record, we could lose our current carriage distribution on cable systems in three markets: Boston, Pittsburgh and Seattle, which currently constitute approximately 3.2 million full-time equivalent households, or FTE’s, receiving our programming. We own the Boston television station and have carriage contracts with the Pittsburg and Seattle television stations. In addition, if must-carry rights for home shopping stations are withdrawn, it may not be possible to replace these FTE’s on commercially reasonable terms and the carrying value of our Boston FCC license ($23.1 million) may become further impaired. We may be subject to product liability claims for on-air misrepresentations or if people or properties are harmed by products sold by us. Products sold by us and representations related to these products may expose us to potential liability from claims by purchasers of such products, subject to our rights, in certain instances, to seek indemnification against this liability from the suppliers or manufacturers of the products. In addition to potential claims of personal injury, wrongful death or damage to personal property, the live unscripted nature of our television broadcasting may subject us to claims of misrepresentation by our customers, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. We maintain, and have generally required the manufacturers and vendors of these products to carry, product liability and errors and omissions insurance. There can be no assurance that we will maintain this coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that this insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims or even be available with respect to any particular claim. There also can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to maintain this insurance or that this coverage will be adequate or available with respect to any particular claims. Product liability claims could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Our ValuePay installment payment program could lead to significant unplanned credit losses if our credit loss rate was to deteriorate. We utilize an installment payment program called ValuePay that entitles customers to purchase merchandise and generally pay for the merchandise in two or more equal monthly installments. As of January 31, 2009 we had approximately $46 million due from customers under the ValuePay installment program. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. While credit losses have historically been within our estimates for such losses, during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, we have seen a significant increase in bad debt write offs due to the recent deterioration of consumer credit. Hence, there is no guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rate that we have in the past or that losses will not continue to increase or not be within current provisions. A continued significant increase in our credit losses could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. Failure to comply with existing laws, rules and regulations, or to obtain and maintain required licenses and rights, could subject us to additional liabilities. We market and provide a broad range of merchandise through multiple channels. As a result, we are subject to a wide variety of statutes, rules, regulations, policies and procedures in various jurisdictions which are subject to change at any time, including laws regarding consumer protection, privacy, the regulation of retailers generally, the importation, sale and promotion of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities, as well 22 Table of Contents as laws and regulations applicable to the internet and businesses engaged in e-commerce. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and proceedings against us by governmental agencies and consumers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, unfavorable changes in the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us could decrease demand for merchandise offered by us, increase costs and subject us to additional liabilities. Finally, certain of these regulations impact our marketing efforts. We may be subject to claims by consumers and state and federal authorities for security breaches involving customer information, which could materially harm our reputation and business. In order to operate our business we take orders for our products from customers. This requires us to obtain personal information from these customers including credit card numbers. Although we take reasonable and appropriate security measures to protect customer information, there is still the risk that external or internal security breaches could occur. In addition, new tools and discoveries by third parties in computer or communications technology or software or other developments may facilitate or result in a future compromise or breach of our computer systems. Such compromises or breaches could result in significant liability or costs to us from consumer lawsuits for monetary redress, state and federal authorities for fines and penalties, and could also lead to interruptions in our operations and negative publicity causing damage to our reputation and limiting customers’ willingness to purchase products from us. Recently, a major discount retailer and a credit reporting agency experienced theft of credit card numbers of millions of consumers resulting in multi-million dollar fines and consumer settlement costs, FTC audit requirements, and significant internal administrative costs. The failure to secure suitable placement for our television programming and the expansion of digital cable systems would adversely affect our ability to attract and retain television viewers and could result in a decrease in revenue. We are dependent upon our ability to compete for television viewers. Effectively competing for television viewers is dependent on our ability to secure suitable placement of our television programming within a suitable programming tier at a desirable channel position. The majority of cable operators now offer cable programming on a digital basis. While the growth of digital cable systems may over time make it possible for our programming to be more widely distributed, there are several risks as well. • as cable operators move our network from analog to digital tiers, we experience a loss of viewers, since at the current time less than half of all cable television subscribers choose to also subscribe to the digital tier; • we could experience a reduction in the growth rate or an absolute decline in sales per digital tier subscriber because of the increased number of channels offered on digital systems competing for the same number of viewers and the higher channel location we typically are assigned in digital tiers; • more competitors may enter the marketplace as additional channel capacity is added; and • more programming options being available to the viewing public in the form of new television networks and time-shifted viewing (e.g., personal video recorders, video-on-demand, interactive television and streaming video over broadband internet connections). Failure to adapt to these risks will result in lower revenue and may harm our results of operations. In addition, failure to anticipate and adapt to technological changes in a cost-effective manner that meets customer demands and evolving industry standards will also reduce our revenue, harm our results of operation and financial condition and have a negative impact on our business. The unanticipated loss of several of our larger vendors could impact our sales on a temporary basis. Under the current economic conditions, it is possible that one or more of our larger vendors could experience financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, or otherwise could determine to cease doing business with us. While we have periodically experienced the loss of a major vendor, if a number of our current larger vendors ceased doing business with us, this could materially and adversely impact our sales and profitability on a short term basis. 23 Table of Contents Many of our key functions are concentrated in a single location, and a natural disaster could seriously impact our ability to operate. Our television broadcast studios, internet operations, IT systems, merchandising team, inventory control systems, executive offices and finance/accounting functions, among others, are centralized in our adjacent offices at 6740 and 6690, Shady Oak Road in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. In addition, our only fulfillment and distribution facility is centralized at a location in Bowling Green, Kentucky. A natural disaster such as a tornado could seriously disrupt our ability to continue or resume normal operations for some period of time. While we have certain business continuity plans in place, no assurances can be given as to how quickly we would be able to resume operations and how long it may take to return to normal operations. We could incur substantial financial losses above and beyond what may be covered by applicable insurance policies, and may experience a loss of customers, vendors and employees during the recovery period. Our e-commerce activities are subject to a number of general business regulations and laws regarding taxation and online commerce, which may increase our pricing or lessen consumer demand. Our e-commerce activities are subject to a number of general business regulations and laws regarding taxation and online commerce. As the role and importance of e-commerce has grown in the United States in recent years, there have been continuing efforts to increase the legal and regulatory obligations and restrictions on companies conducting commerce through the internet, primarily in the areas of taxation, consumer privacy and protection of consumer personal information. These laws and regulations could increase the costs and liabilities associated with our e-commerce activities and increase the price of our product to consumers, without a corresponding increase in our revenue or net income. On October 31, 2007, the United States enacted a seven-year moratorium on internet access taxes, extending a ban on internet taxes that is set to expire in 2014. In addition, in November 2002, a number of states approved a multi-state agreement to simplify state sales tax laws by establishing one uniform system to administer and collect sales taxes on traditional retailers and electronic commerce merchants. The agreement became effective on October 3, 2005, although fewer than half of the states have become members by enacting implementation legislation. No prediction can be made as to whether individual states will enact legislation requiring retailers such as us to collect and remit sales taxes on transactions that occur over the internet. Adding sales tax to our internet transactions could negatively impact consumer demand. We could be subject to additional sales tax collection obligations. Although there is a current federal moratorium on the state and local taxation of internet transactions, several states and the US Congress have adopted or are reviewing proposals that would require the collection of state and/or local taxes on transactions originating on the internet. If these proposals are adopted, we could be required to collect additional state and local taxes which could negatively impact our internet sales as well as creating an additional administrative burden which also could be costly to the business. We place a significant reliance on technology and information management tools to run our existing businesses, the failure of which could adversely impact our operations. Our businesses are dependent, in part, on the use of sophisticated technology, some of which is provided to us by third parties. These technologies include, but are not necessarily limited to, satellite based transmission of our programming, use of the internet in relation to our on-line business, new digital technology used to manage and supplement our television broadcast operations and a network of complex computer hardware and software to manage an ever increasing need for information and information management tools. The failure of any of these technologies, or our inability to have this technology supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. Although we have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into our computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect us against all potential issues or disaster occurrences related to the loss of any such technologies or their use. 24 Table of Contents If our common stock continues to trade below $1.00 per share, we could cease to be in compliance with the continued listing standards set forth by Nasdaq. Our stock is currently trading below $1.00 per share, which is in violation of Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements. Although Nasdaq has suspended the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price and the rules requiring a minimum market value of publicly held shares, this suspension is currently only in effect through July 19, 2009. There is no guarantee that we will be in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements when this suspension is lifted. If our stock continues to trade below $1.00 when the temporary suspension is lifted, Nasdaq may commence delisting procedures against us. If we were delisted, the market liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock could decrease. A delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in a loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. In addition, our shareholders’ ability to trade or obtain quotations on our shares could be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask price for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 