ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the general investment risks and those factors set forth throughout this document, including those set forth under the caption "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Information," the following risks should be considered regarding our company. 14 WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN PROFITABLE OPERATIONS IN THE FUTURE. We experienced operating losses from continuing operations of approximately $9.5 million, $18.6 million and $44.3 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We reported a net loss per diluted share of $0.07, $0.43 and $1.57 in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitable operations in future fiscal years. A MAJORITY OF OUR CABLE AND SATELLITE DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENTS ARE SCHEDULED TO EXPIRE AT THE END OF 2008 AND IT MAY BE DIFFICULT OR MORE COSTLY TO RENEW THESE AGREEMENTS FOR ADDITIONAL TERMS. Cable and satellite distribution agreements representing approximately 60% of the total cable and satellite households who currently receive our television programming are scheduled to expire at the end of 2008. While we and NBC, as our agent, have begun initial discussions with certain cable system operators regarding extensions or renewals of these agreements, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in negotiating renewal contracts with all the existing systems, or that the financial and other terms of renewal will be on acceptable terms. Failure to successfully renew carriage agreements covering a material portion of our existing cable and satellite households on acceptable financial and other terms could adversely affect our future growth, sales revenues and earnings unless we were able to arrange for alternative means of broadly distributing our television programming. LOSS OF THE NBC BRANDING LICENSE WOULD REQUIRE US TO PURSUE A NEW BRANDING STRATEGY THAT MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL AND MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT ADDITIONAL EXPENSE. We have branded our television home shopping network and internet site as ShopNBC and ShopNBC.com, respectively, under an exclusive, worldwide licensing agreement with NBC for the use of NBC trademarks, service marks and domain names that continues until May 2011. We do not have the right to automatic renewal at the end of the license term, and consequently may be required to pursue a new branding strategy which may not be as successful as the NBC brand with current or potential customers, and which may involve significant additional expense. In addition, there are limitations and conditions to our use of the license, which may under certain circumstances restrict us from pursuing business opportunities outside of our current scope of operations. NBC also has the right to terminate the license prior to the end of the license term in the event of a breach by us of the terms of the license agreement or upon certain changes of control, as outlined in greater detail in "Business -- Strategic Relationships -- ABC Trademark License Agreement" above. NBC AND GE EQUITY HAVE THE ABILITY TO EXERT SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER US AND HAVE THE RIGHT TO DISAPPROVE OF CERTAIN ACTIONS BY US. As a result of their equity ownership in our company, NBC and GE Equity together are currently our largest shareholder and have the ability to exert significant influence over actions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors, adoption of equity-based compensation plans and approval of mergers or other significant corporate events. Through the provisions in the shareholder agreement and certificate of designation for the preferred stock, NBC and GE Equity also have the right to disapprove of certain major corporate actions by our company (as discussed under "Business -- Strategic Relationships -- Shareholder Agreement" above). In addition, because NBC has the exclusive right to negotiate for the distribution of our television home shopping programming, a termination of the strategic alliance with NBC could adversely affect our ability to increase our program distribution. MANDATORY REDEMPTION OF OUR CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON OUR LIQUIDITY AND CASH RESOURCES. Our Class A Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock issued to GE Equity may be redeemed upon certain changes in control of our company and, in any event, may be redeemed in 2009 upon the ten-year anniversary of its issuance (unless previously converted into common stock). If we are unable to generate positive cash flow or obtain additional capital prior to any such redemption, the requirement that we pay cash 15 in connection with such redemption may have a material impact on our liquidity and cash resources. The aggregate redemption cost of all the Preferred Stock is $44,264,000. We ended fiscal 2006 with cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $71,294,000 and no long-term debt. The Preferred Stock has a redemption price of $8.29 per share and is convertible on a one-for-one basis into our common stock, and accordingly, if the market value of our stock is higher than the redemption price immediately prior to the redemption date, GE Equity may choose to convert its shares of Preferred Stock to common stock rather than exercise its right to redemption. GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE INTERNET AND E-COMMERCE IS EVOLVING; UNFAVORABLE CHANGES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We have made material investments in anticipation of the continuing growth of the internet as an effective medium of commerce by merchants and shoppers. Our sales over the internet accounted for approximately 24%, 21% and 20% of consolidated net sales during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the internet or other online services, covering such issues as user privacy, data security, advertising, pricing, content, copyrights and trademarks, access by persons with disabilities, distribution, taxation and characteristics and quality of products and services. These laws or regulations, if enacted, could make it more difficult for us to conduct business online, which could, in turn, decrease the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business through the internet. Inherent with the internet and e-commerce is the risk of unauthorized access to confidential data, including consumer credit card information, the risk of computer virus infection or other unauthorized acts of electronic intrusion with the malicious intent to do damage. Although we have taken precautionary steps to secure and protect our data network from intrusion and acts of hostility, there can be no assurance that unauthorized access to our electronic systems will be prevented entirely. INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE GENERAL MERCHANDISE RETAILING INDUSTRY AND PARTICULARLY THE LIVE HOME SHOPPING AND E-COMMERCE SECTORS COULD LIMIT OUR GROWTH AND REDUCE OUR PROFITABILITY. As a general merchandise retailer, we compete for consumer expenditures with other forms of retail businesses, including department, discount, warehouse and specialty stores, television home shopping, e-commerce businesses, mail order and catalog companies, and other direct sellers. The home shopping industry is highly competitive, with the two largest competitors being HSN and QVC. QVC and HSN offer home shopping programming similar to our programming, and are well established, reach a significantly larger percentage of United States television households than we do, and in many markets have more favorable channel locations than we haved. QVC is owned by Liberty Media Corp., while HSN is a wholly owned subsidiary of InterActiveCorp. Liberty Media and InterActiveCorp are larger, more diversified and have greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than us. The internet retailing industry is also highly competitive, with numerous e-commerce websites competing in every product category we carry, in addition to the websites operated by the other television home shopping companies. This competition in the internet retailing sector makes it more challenging and expensive for us to attract new customers, retain existing customers and maintain desired gross margin levels. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN ITS SATELLITE SERVICES IN CERTAIN SITUATIONS, BEYOND OUR CONTROL, WHICH MAY CAUSE OUR PROGRAMMING TO GO OFF THE AIR FOR A PERIOD OF TIME AND INCUR SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL COSTS. Our programming is presently distributed to cable systems, full power television stations and satellite dish owners via a leased communications satellite transponder. In the future, satellite service may be interrupted due to a variety of circumstances beyond our control, such as satellite transponder failure, satellite fuel depletion, governmental action, preemption by the satellite service provider and service failure. The agreement provides us with preemptable back-up service if satellite transmission is interrupted. However, there can be no assurance if satellite transmission is so interrupted that we will be able to utilize existing back-up transponder or satellite capacity. In the event of any transmission interruption, we may incur substantial additional costs to enter into new arrangements and be unable to broadcast its signal for some period of time. 16 WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS FOR ON AIR MISREPRESENTATIONS OR IF PEOPLE OR PROPERTIES ARE HARMED BY PRODUCTS SOLD BY US. Products sold by us and representations related to these products may expose us to potential liability from claims by purchasers of such products, subject to our rights, in certain instances, to seek indemnification against this liability from the suppliers or manufacturers of the products. In addition to potential claims of personal injury, wrongful death or damage to personal property, the live unscripted nature of our television broadcasting may subject us to claims of misrepresentation by our customers, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general. We maintain, and have generally required the manufacturers and vendors of these products to carry, product liability and errors and omissions insurance. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms, or that this insurance will provide adequate coverage against all potential claims or even be available with respect to any particular claim. There also can be no assurance that our suppliers will continue to maintain this insurance or that this coverage will be adequate or available with respect to any particular claims. Product liability claims could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. OUR VALUEPAY INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PROGRAM COULD LEAD TO SIGNIFICANT UNPLANNED CREDIT LOSSES IF OUR CREDIT LOSS RATE WAS TO DETERIORATE. We utilize an installment payment program called ValuePay that entitles customers to purchase merchandise and generally pay for the merchandise in two to six equal monthly installments. As of February 3, 2007 and February 4, 2006, we had approximately $105 million and $77 million, respectively, due from customers under the ValuePay installment program. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. While credit losses have historically been within our estimates for such losses, there is no guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rate that we have in the past. A significant increase in our credit losses could result in a material adverse impact on our financial performance. WE PLACE A SIGNIFICANT RELIANCE ON TECHNOLOGY AND INFORMATION MANAGEMENT TOOLS TO RUN OUR EXISTING BUSINESSES, THE FAILURE OF WHICH COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS. Our businesses are dependent, in part, on the use of sophisticated technology, some of which is provided to us by third parties. These technologies include, but are not necessarily limited to, satellite based transmission of our programming, use of the internet in relation to our on-line business, new digital technology used to manage and supplement our television broadcast operations and a network of complex computer hardware and software to manage an ever increasing need for information and information management tools. The failure of any of these technologies, or our inability to have this technology supported, updated, expanded or integrated into other technologies, could adversely impact our operations. Although we have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into our computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect us against all potential issues or disaster occurrences related to the loss of any such technologies or their use. THE EXPANSION OF DIGITAL CABLE COMPRESSION TECHNOLOGY MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE FOR TELEVISION VIEWERS. The majority of cable operators have started to offer cable programming on a digital basis. The use of digital compression technology provides cable companies with greater channel capacity. While greater channel capacity increases the opportunity for us to be more widely distributed, it also may adversely impact our ability to compete for television viewers to the extent it results in (i) higher channel position, (ii) placement of our programming in separate programming tiers, or (iii) an expanding universe of programming choices all competing for the same audience. We have historically experienced a higher annual sales revenue per FTE with analog systems, as compared to digital systems. As more cable system operators move to all-digital systems or require our programming to be carried on a digital tier, we could experience a reduction in the growth or an absolute decline in sales per FTE, unless we are able to offset the reduction through increased 17 marketing efforts, greater internet-based sales or alternative distribution channels for our television programming. Such efforts may not be successful or may incur significant additional operating costs. THE UNANTICIPATED LOSS OF ONE OF OUR LARGER VENDORS COULD IMPACT OUR SALES ON A TEMPORARY BASIS. Historically, we have not entered into long-term supply arrangements that would require vendors to provide products on an ongoing basis. In fiscal 2006, products purchased from one vendor accounted for approximately 17% of our consolidated net sales. We believe that we could find alternative sources for this vendor's products if this vendor ceased supplying merchandise; however, the unanticipated loss of any large supplier could impact our sales on a temporary basis. MANY OF OUR KEY FUNCTIONS ARE CONCENTRATED IN A SINGLE LOCATION, AND A NATURAL DISASTER COULD SERIOUSLY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE. Our television broadcast studios, internet operations, IT systems, merchandising team, inventory control systems, executive offices and finance/accounting functions, among others, are centralized in our adjacent offices at 6740 and 6690, Shady Oak Road in Eden Prairie, Minnesota. A natural disaster such as a tornado could seriously disrupt our ability to continue or resume normal operations for some period of time. While we have business continuity plans and emergency preparedness protocols in place, no assurances can be given as to how quickly we would be able to resume operations and how long it may take to return to normal operations. We could incur substantial financial losses above and beyond what may be covered by applicable insurance policies, and may experience a loss of customers, vendors and employees during the recovery period. WE OPERATE WITH A HIGH FIXED COST BASE. Our television home shopping business operates with a high fixed cost base, primarily driven by fixed annual fees under multi-year contracts with cable and satellite system operators to carry our programming. In fiscal 2006, these fees aggregated approximately $112.6 million. In order to operate on a profitable basis, we must reach and maintain sufficient annual sales revenues to cover our high fixed cost base. In the event we do not achieve our expected sales revenue targets or experience an unanticipated decline in sales, our ability to reduce operating expenses in the near term will be limited by the fixed cost base. In that case, our earnings and growth prospects could be adversely affected. OUR TELEVISION HOME SHOPPING AND INTERNET BUSINESSES ARE SENSITIVE TO GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, CONSUMER CONFIDENCE AND MAJOR NEWS EVENTS. Our businesses are sensitive to general economic conditions affecting consumer spending. Our two major categories of sales merchandise are jewelry and electronics, which due to their nature and relatively high price points are more sensitive to changes in consumer demand than other product categories. Unfavorable economic conditions and/or a loss of consumer confidence may lead to a reduction in consumer spending generally and in home shopping specifically, and may lead to a reduction in consumer spending on the types of merchandise we currently offer. Additionally, our television audience and sales revenue can be significantly impacted by major world or domestic events, which divert audience attention away from our programming. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 