Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements made in this report that are not statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. In addition, from time to time, we and our representatives may make statements that are forward-looking. All forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. This section provides you with cautionary statements identifying, for purposes of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report or otherwise made by us or on our behalf. You can identify these forward-looking statements by forward-looking words such as “expect”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “plan”, “may”, “will”, “believe”, “seek”, “estimate”, and similar expressions. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The following are some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from estimates contained in our forward-looking statements: • cost structure of subsidiaries; • management turnover; • reorganizations; • material changes in the demand from larger clients, including clients with which we have national, multi-national, or sole-supplier arrangements; • availability of workers with the skills required by clients; • increases in the wages paid to our associates; • competitive market pressures, including pricing pressures; • inability to pass along direct cost increases to clients; • our ability to successfully invest in and implement information systems; • unanticipated technological changes, including obsolescence or impairment of information systems; • our ability to successfully expand into new markets or offer new service lines; • changes in client attitudes toward the use of staffing services; • changes in demand for our specialized services and outplacement services; • government, tax or regulatory policies adverse to the employment services industry; • general economic conditions in domestic and international markets; • interest rate and exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties related to acquisitions, including integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits; • impairments to the carrying value of acquisitions and other investments resulting from poor financial performance or other factors; • the risk factors disclosed below; and • other factors that may be disclosed from time to time in our SEC filings or otherwise. Some or all of these factors may be beyond our control. We caution you that any forward-looking statement reflects only our belief at the time the statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made. 8 RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) or stock price. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that may broadly affect companies. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation or stock price. Our business declined during the global economic downturn as clients required fewer of our workforce solutions and services. There is a risk that, even if global economic conditions recover, we will continue to experience declines in all, or in portions, of our business. Because demand for workforce solutions and services, particularly staffing services, is sensitive to changes in the level of economic activity, our business may suffer during economic downturns. In 2013, in a continuation of the global economic downturn, we experienced a reduction in our revenues in many of the markets in which we operate, particularly the staffing services which comprise the majority of our business. During periods of weak economic growth or economic contraction, such as 2009 to 2013, the demand for our staffing services typically declines, and such economic contraction may continue. Even if global economic conditions were to improve in 2014, we may not experience a recovery in our business. When demand drops or remains low, our operating profit is typically impacted unfavorably as we experience a deleveraging of our selling and administrative expense base as expenses may not decline as quickly as revenues. In periods of decline, we can only reduce selling and administrative expenses to a certain level without negatively impacting the long-term potential of our branch network and brands. Additionally, during periods of economic uncertainty, companies may slow the rate at which they pay their vendors, or they may become unable to pay their obligations. If our clients become unable to pay amounts owed to us, or pay us more slowly, then our cash flow and profitability may suffer. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by volatile or uncertain economic conditions. Our business is affected by global macroeconomic conditions, which have recently included considerable uncertainty and volatility. In particular, economic conditions have been unstable and difficult to predict globally, particularly within Europe, which represented 65% of our revenues in 2013, and which has experienced a prolonged period of recession. Even without uncertainty and volatility, it is difficult for us to forecast future demand for our services due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting the direction and strength of economic cycles, and the short-term nature of many of our staffing assignments. This situation can be exacerbated by uncertain and volatile economic conditions, which may cause clients to reduce or defer projects for which they utilize our services, thereby negatively affecting demand for them. When it is difficult for us to accurately forecast future demand, we may not be able to determine the optimal level of personnel and office investments necessary to profitably take advantage of growth opportunities. We may lack the speed and agility to respond to the needs of our clients. There is a risk we may not be able to respond with sufficient speed and agility to the needs of our clients, which may change rapidly as their businesses evolve. The size and breadth of our organization, comprising approximately 25,000 employees based out of over 3,100 offices in 80 countries and territories, may make it difficult for us to effectively manage our resources and provide coordinated solutions to our clients who require our services in multiple locations. Also, our size and scale may make it difficult to develop and implement new processes and tools across the enterprise in a consistent manner. If our competitors are more agile or effective at meeting the needs of our current and prospective clients, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The worldwide employment services industry is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. The worldwide employment services industry is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry, and in recent years has undergone significant consolidation. We compete in markets throughout the world with full-service and specialized employment services agencies. Several of our competitors, including Adecco S.A., Randstad Holding N.V. and Kelly Services, Inc., have very substantial marketing and financial resources, and may be better positioned in certain markets. Portions of our industry may become increasingly commoditized, with the result that competition in key areas could become more focused on pricing. We expect that we will continue to experience pressure on price from competitors and clients. There is a risk that we will not compete effectively, including on price, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share and could adversely affect our profitability. This may worsen as clients increasingly take advantage of low-cost alternatives including using their own in-house resources rather than engaging a third party. 9 We may be unable to effectively implement our business strategy, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve our objectives, including our simplification efforts. Our business strategy focuses on growing revenue while improving our operating profits. An important element of our strategy is our effort to diversify our revenues beyond our core staffing and employment services through the sale of innovative workforce solutions that have higher operating margins. These workforce solutions are often unique, non-repeatable and tailored to a client’s needs, and present costs, risk and complexity that may be difficult to calculate. These solutions may be unprofitable if we are not able to accurately anticipate these costs and risks in our pricing for these solutions, including failure to structure a solution to ensure we recover our initial investments, or if we do not have an adequate delivery plan for these solutions. Our business strategy also includes continuing efforts to simplify our organizational structure, programs, technology and delivery of services to make us a more agile and effective competitor, to reduce the cost of operating our business and to increase our operating profit and operating profit margin. We may not be successful in our continuing simplification efforts, and they may fail to achieve the cost savings we anticipate; further, we may fail to prevent the return of costs eliminated in these efforts. Additionally, the reductions in personnel and other changes we make in connection with the implementation of our simplification strategy could adversely affect our ability to effectively operate our business. Furthermore, the implementation of our simplification strategy, and other plans to accomplish our business and financial objectives, is highly dependent on factors within and outside of our control, including our performance managing our operations as well as global economic conditions. If, for these or other reasons, we are not successful in implementing our business strategy or achieving the anticipated results, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our performance on contracts may be adversely affected if we or third parties fail to deliver on commitments. Our contracts are increasingly complex and, in some instances, require that we partner with other parties to provide the workforce solutions required by our clients. Our ability to deliver these solutions and provide the services required by our clients is dependent on our and our partners' ability to meet our clients' delivery requirements and schedules. If we or our partners fail to deliver services on time and in accordance with contractual performance obligations, then our ability to successfully complete our contracts may be adversely affected, which may have a material and adverse impact on our client relations, revenues and profitability. Our results of operations and ability to grow could be materially negatively affected if we cannot successfully keep pace with technological changes in the development and implementation of our services and solutions. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes in the development and implementation of our services and solutions. Our business is reliant on a variety of technologies, including those which support applicant on-boarding and tracking systems, order management, billing, and client data analytics. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technology and industry developments, or evolve our business at sufficient speed and scale in response to such developments, or if we do not make the right strategic investments to respond to these developments, our services and solutions, our results of operations, and our ability to develop and maintain a competitive advantage could be negatively affected. If we lose our key personnel, then our business may suffer. Our operations are dependent on the continued efforts of our officers and executive management and the performance and productivity of our local managers and field personnel. Our ability to attract and retain business is significantly affected by local relationships and the quality of service rendered. If we were to lose key personnel who have acquired significant experience in managing our business or managing companies on a global basis, it could have a significant impact on our operations. Additionally, some of our important client relationships may be dependent on the continued performance of individual managers or field personnel, and there is a risk that loss of those individuals could jeopardize key client relationships. Our simplification plan includes reductions of our workforce, at the staff and officer level, in both our headquarters and throughout our country operations. There is a risk that this simplification and the resultant reductions in personnel could materially adversely affect the effectiveness of our operations, and therefore our business and financial results. 10 Intense competition may limit our ability to attract, train and retain the qualified personnel necessary for us to meet our clients’ staffing needs. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified associates who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the requirements of our clients. We must continually evaluate and upgrade our base of available qualified personnel through recruiting and training programs to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Competition for individuals with proven professional skills is intense, and we expect demand for such individuals to remain very strong for the foreseeable future. Qualified personnel may not be available to us in sufficient numbers and on terms of employment acceptable to us. Additionally, our clients may look to us for assistance in identifying and integrating into their organizations workers from diverse backgrounds, and who may represent different generations, geographical regions, and skillsets. These needs may change due to business requirements, or in response to geopolitical and societal trends. There is a risk that we may not be able to identify workers with the required attributes, or that our training programs may not succeed in developing effective or adequate skills. If we fail to recruit, train and retain qualified associates who meet the needs of our clients, our reputation, business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. As a result of our geographic breadth, we are more susceptible to certain risks. We operate in 80 countries and territories around the world. If we are unable to manage the following risks of our global operations, our results could be adversely affected: • We are subject to risk from political events, including political unrest, hostilities, and strikes. • We are subject to natural disasters, severe weather conditions, global health emergencies, disruptions of infrastructure and utilities, cyber attacks, and other events beyond our control. • Our global operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements, and violations of these regulations could harm our business. In particular, in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business community may not conform to international business standards and could violate anticorruption law or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010. Government regulations may result in prohibition or restriction of certain types of employment services or the imposition of additional licensing or tax requirements that may reduce our future earnings. In many jurisdictions in which we operate, such as France and Germany, the employment services industry is heavily regulated. For example, governmental regulations in Germany restrict the length of contracts and the industries in which our associates may be used. In some countries, special taxes, fees or costs are imposed in connection with the use of our associates. Additionally, in some countries, trade unions have used the political process to target our industry, in an effort to increase the regulatory burden and expense associated with offering or utilizing contingent workforce solutions. The countries in which we operate may, among other things: • create additional regulations that prohibit or restrict the types of employment services that we currently provide; • require new or additional benefits be paid to our associates; • require us to obtain additional licensing to provide employment services; or • increase taxes, such as sales or value-added taxes, payable by the providers of temporary and contract recruitment centers. Any future regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results because they may make it more difficult or expensive for us to continue to provide employment services. 11 We may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs from clients or third parties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplaces of other businesses. Risks relating to these activities include: • claims arising out of the actions or inactions of our associates, including matters for which we may have indemnified a client; • claims by our associates of discrimination or harassment directed at them, including claims relating to actions of our clients; • claims related to the employment of undocumented or illegal workers; • payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims; • violations of employee pay and benefits requirements such as violations of wage and hour requirements; • retroactive entitlement to employee benefits; • errors and omissions of our associates, particularly in the case of professionals, such as accountants; and • claims by our clients relating to our associates’ misuse of clients’ proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other criminal activity or torts or other similar claims. We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. In addition, some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming to our management team and costly and could have a negative impact on our business. We cannot be certain we will not experience these problems in the future. We cannot be certain our insurance will be sufficient in amount or scope to cover all claims that may be asserted against us. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We cannot be certain we will be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, that adequate replacement policies will be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that the companies from which we have obtained insurance will be able to pay claims we make under such policies. Our business exposes us to competition law risk. We are subject to antitrust and competition law in the United States, the European Union, and many other regions in which we operate. Some of our business models may carry a heightened risk of regulatory inquiry under relevant competition laws. Although we have put in place safeguards designed to maintain compliance with applicable competition laws, there can be no assurance these protections will be adequate, and there is a risk that we will be subject to regulatory investigation by relevant authorities. For example, in 2009, we were fined by the French Competition Council following a 2004 investigation, and in 2013 we were informed that the French competition authority had commenced an investigation into us and a number of our competitors in France. There is no assurance we will successfully defend against such regulatory inquiries, and they may consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and result in adverse publicity, even if successfully resolved. An unfavorable outcome with respect to these matters and any future matters could, individually or in the aggregate, result in substantial liabilities that have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain business and employees may depend on our reputation in the marketplace. We believe the ManpowerGroup brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to material damage by events such as disputes with clients, information technology security breaches, internal control deficiencies, delivery failures or compliance violations. Similarly, our reputation could be damaged by actions or statements of current or former clients, employees, competitors, vendors, adversaries in legal proceedings, government regulators, as well as members of the investment community or the media. There is a risk that negative information about ManpowerGroup, even if based on rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. Damage to our reputation could be difficult, expensive and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the ManpowerGroup brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us, materially adversely affecting our share price. 12 Our results of operations and share price could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls. The accuracy of our financial reporting is dependent on the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to provide a report from management to our shareholders on our internal control over financial reporting that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls. Internal control over financial reporting has inherent limitations, including human error, the possibility that controls could be circumvented or become inadequate because of changed conditions, and fraud. Because of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud. If we cannot maintain and execute adequate internal control over financial reporting or implement required new or improved controls that provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of the financial reporting and preparation of our financial statements for external use, we could suffer harm to our reputation, fail to meet our public reporting requirements on a timely basis, be unable to properly report on our business and our results of operations, or be required to restate our financial statements, and our results of operations, the market price of our securities and our ability to obtain new business could be materially adversely affected. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We conduct our operations in 80 countries and territories, and the results of our local operations are reported in the applicable foreign currencies and then translated into United States dollars at the applicable foreign currency exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. During 2013, approximately 85% of our revenues were generated outside of the United States, the majority of which were generated in Europe. Furthermore, approximately $517.7 million of our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2013 was denominated in foreign currencies. Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into United States dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. This exposure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future because, among other things, it could cause our reported revenues and profitability to decline or debt levels and interest expense to increase. We maintain debt that could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. As of December 31, 2013, we had $517.9 million of total debt. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our credit agreements could have important consequences for investors, including the following: • we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing; • borrowings under our revolving credit facilities are at a variable interest rate, making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates; and • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments could trigger prepayment obligations. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. The lenders under our and our subsidiaries’ credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to extend credit to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our liquidity is dependent in part on our revolving credit facility, which is provided by a syndicate of banks. Each bank in the syndicate is responsible on a several, but not joint, basis for providing a portion of the loans under the facility. If any of the participants in the syndicate fails to satisfy its obligations to extend credit under the facility, the other participants refuse or are unable to assume its obligations and we are unable to find an alternative source of funding at comparable rates, our liquidity may be adversely affected or our interest expense may increase substantially. Furthermore, a number of our subsidiaries maintain uncommitted lines of credit with various banks. Under the terms of these lines of credit, the bank is not obligated to make loans to the subsidiary or to make loans to the subsidiary at a particular interest rate. If any of these banks cancel these lines of credit or otherwise refuse to extend credit on acceptable terms, we may need to extend credit to those subsidiaries or the liquidity of our subsidiaries may be adversely affected. 13 The performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute cash to our parent company may vary, negatively affecting our ability to service our debt at the parent company level or in other subsidiaries. Since we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, our cash flow and our consequent ability to service our debt depends in part upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to our parent company, or upon loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries to our parent company or to other subsidiaries. The payment of such dividends and the making of such loans and advances by our subsidiaries may be subject to legal or contractual restrictions, depend upon the earnings of those subsidiaries and be subject to various business considerations, including the ability of such subsidiaries to pay such dividends or make such loans and advances in a manner that does not result in substantial tax liability or other costs. Our inability to secure guarantees or letters of credit on acceptable terms may substantially increase our cost of doing business in various countries. In a number of countries in which we conduct business we are obligated to provide guarantees or letters of credit to secure licenses, lease space or for insurance coverage. We typically receive these guarantees and letters of credit from a number of financial institutions around the world. In the event that we are unable to secure these arrangements from a bank, lender or other third party on acceptable terms, our liquidity may be adversely affected, there could be a disruption to our business or there could be a substantial increase in cost for our business. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses for investors. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, during 2013, the price of our common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange ranged from a high of $86.66 to a low of $43.49. Our stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including factors listed in these “Risk Factors” and others, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcement of new services by us or our competitors; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; • changes in financial estimates or other statements by securities analysts; and • changes in general economic conditions. Wisconsin law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make the takeover of our company more difficult. Certain provisions of Wisconsin law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws currently include: • permitting removal of directors only for cause; • providing that vacancies on the board of directors will be filled by the remaining directors then in office; and • requiring advance notice for shareholder proposals and director nominees. In addition, the Wisconsin control share acquisition statute and Wisconsin’s “fair price” and “business combination” provisions, in addition to other provisions of Wisconsin law, limit the ability of an acquiring person to engage in certain transactions or to exercise the full voting power of acquired shares under certain circumstances. As a result, offers to acquire us, which may represent a premium over the available market price of our common stock, may be withdrawn or otherwise fail to be realized. The provisions described above could cause our stock price to decline. 14 Our acquisition strategy may have a material adverse effect on our business due to unexpected or underestimated costs. From time to time, we make acquisitions of other companies or operating assets.Our acquisition strategy involves significant risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services and corporate culture of acquired companies; • over-valuation by us of acquired companies; • insufficient indemnification from the selling parties for legal liabilities incurred by the acquired companies prior to the acquisitions; and • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business because they may result in substantial costs to us and disrupt our business. In addition, future acquisitions could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Possible impairment losses on goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, or restructuring charges could also occur. We could be harmed by improper disclosure or loss of sensitive or confidential company, employee, associate or client data, including personal data. In connection with the operation of our business, we store, process and transmit a large amount of data, including personnel and payment information, about our employees, clients, associates and candidates, a portion of which is personally sensitive. In doing so, we rely on our own technology and systems, and those of third party vendors we use for a variety of processes. We and our third party vendors have established policies and procedures to help protect the security and privacy of this information. It is possible that our security controls over sensitive or confidential data and other practices we and our third party vendors follow may not prevent the improper access to, disclosure of, or loss of such information. Such disclosure, loss or breach could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect sensitive or personal data and confidential information, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace. Outsourcing certain aspects of our business could result in disruption and increased costs. We have outsourced certain aspects of our business to third party vendors that subject us to risks, including disruptions in our business and increased costs. For example, we have engaged third parties to host and manage certain aspects of our data center information and technology infrastructure and to provide certain back office support in several countries. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks associated with the vendor’s ability to provide these services to meet our needs. Our operations will depend significantly upon their and our ability to make our servers, software applications and websites available and to protect our data from damage or interruption from human error, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, labor disputes, natural disasters and similar events. If the cost of these services is more than expected, or if the vendor or we are unable to adequately protect our data and information is lost, or our ability to deliver our services is interrupted, then our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. 15 We have only a limited ability to protect our thought leadership and other intellectual property, which is important to our success. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property including the value of our brands. Existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions may offer only limited protection. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality and other contractual agreements, and patent, copyright, and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to ours. Further, the steps we take might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, we cannot be sure that our services and solutions do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and these third parties could claim that we or our clients are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. These claims could harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs or prevent us from offering some services or solutions in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 