ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Strategy Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and have declined substantially since June 30, 2008. An extended decline in the prices of oil and natural gas would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our revenues, results of operations, profitability and future growth, and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend to a large degree on prevailing oil and natural gas prices. Our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms also substantially depends upon oil and natural gas prices. Prices for oil and natural gas have declined substantially since June 30, 2008 and remain subject to large fluctuations in response to a variety of factors beyond our control. These factors include: • relatively minor changes in the supply of or the demand for oil and natural gas; • the condition of the United States and worldwide economies; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions in the United States, such as hurricanes; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • domestic and foreign governmental regulation, including price controls adopted by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; • political instability in the Middle East and elsewhere; • the price of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; and • the price and availability of alternate fuel sources. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices and such prices may decline further. An extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to meet our financial obligations and results of operations. Lower prices have reduced and my further reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and has required and may require us to record additional ceiling test write-downs. Substantially all of our oil and natural gas sales are made in the spot market or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices. Our sales are not made pursuant to long-term fixed price contracts. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we periodically enter into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current financial crisis and deteriorating economic conditions may have material adverse impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. As widely reported, economic conditions in the United States and globally have been deteriorating. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other governments. Unemployment has risen while business and consumer confidence have declined and there are fears of a prolonged recession. Although we cannot predict the impacts on us of the deteriorating economic conditions, they could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents For example: • the demand for oil and natural gas may decline due to the deteriorating economic conditions which could negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our oil and natural gas business; • we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our bank credit facility due to reductions in our borrowing base as a result of a redetermination due to lower oil and gas prices or lending counterparties being unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations; • the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables; • our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business including for exploration and/or development of our reserves; or • our commodity hedging arrangements could become ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness, net of available cash on hand, was approximately $255 million, which could have important consequences for you, including the following: • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our 10 3/8% senior notes due 2012, which we refer to as our 10 3/8% notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt agreements, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing our 10 3/8% notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; • the covenants contained in our debt agreements limit our ability to borrow money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; • we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, approximately $15.6 million per year for interest on our 10 3/8% notes alone, and to pay quarterly dividends, if declared by our Board of Directors, on our Series B Preferred Stock, approximately $5.1 million per year, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; • the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings in the future may be at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; • we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially extended or further declines in oil and natural gas prices; and • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our bank credit facility because (i) our borrowing base under our current revolving credit facility may decrease as the result of a redetermination, reducing it due to lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations, or for any other reason in our lenders’ discretion or (ii) our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. If our revised borrowing base, which is scheduled to be redetermined by March 31, 2009, is less than $130 million, we will be obligated to repay the amount by which our aggregate credit exposure under our bank credit facility exceeds the revised borrowing base within forty-five days after the revised borrowing base is determined. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt, including our 10 3/8% notes, and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, including our 10 3/8% notes, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. We may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 12 Table of Contents To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our 10 3/8% notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our bank credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, including our 10 3/8% notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce our planned capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, including payments on our 10 3/8% notes, and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. We may not be able to obtain adequate financing to execute our long-term operating strategy when the need arises. Our ability to execute our long-term operating strategy is highly dependent on our having access to capital when the need arises. We have historically addressed our long-term liquidity needs through the use of bank credit facilities, second lien term credit facilities, the issuance of equity and debt securities, the use of proceeds from the sale of assets and the use of cash provided by operating activities. We will examine the following alternative sources of long-term capital as dictated by current economic conditions: • borrowings from banks or other lenders; • the issuance of debt securities; • the sale of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities; • joint venture financing; and • production payments. The availability of these sources of capital when the need arises will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, oil and natural gas prices, our credit ratings, interest rates, market perceptions of us or the oil and gas industry, our market value and operating performance. We may be unable to execute our long-term operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these sources when the need arises. We may not be able to fund our planned capital expenditures. Although our capital expenditure budget is reduced in 2009, when compared to 2008 and other recent years, we spend and will continue to spend a substantial amount of capital for the development, exploration, acquisition and production of oil and natural gas reserves. If extended or further declines in oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, cause our revenues or cash flows from operations to decrease, we may be limited in our ability to spend the capital necessary to continue our drilling program. We may be forced to raise additional debt or equity, sell properties or assets or enter into joint venture arrangements with industry partners to fund such expenditures. We cannot assure you that additional financings or cash generated by operations will be available to meet these requirements. 13 Table of Contents Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our bank credit facility and the indenture governing our 10 3/8% notes contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restricts or limits our ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur a certain level of borrowings under our credit facility and incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred stock; • pay dividends on our capital stock; • create liens on our assets; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into specified investments or acquisitions; • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; • merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; • engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or • other corporate activities. Also, our bank credit facility and the indenture governing our 10 3/8% notes require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our bank credit facility and the indenture governing our 10 3/8% notes impose on us. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our bank credit facility and our 10 3/8% notes. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our bank credit facility and our 10 3/8% notes. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop, produce and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. As is generally the case in the Gulf Coast Basin where approximately half of our current production is located, many of our producing properties are characterized by a high initial production rate, followed by a steep decline in production. In order to maintain or increase our reserves, we must constantly locate and develop or acquire new oil and natural gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. We must do this even during periods of low oil and natural gas prices when it is difficult to raise the capital necessary to finance our exploration, development and acquisition activities. Without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, our reserves and revenues will decline rapidly. We may not be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have access to necessary financing for these activities, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Approximately half of our production is exposed to the additional risk of tropical weather disturbances. Approximately half of our production and 32% of our reserves are located in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast Basin. Operations in this area are subject to tropical weather disturbances. Some of these disturbances can be severe enough to cause substantial damage to facilities and possibly interrupt production. Certain of our Gulf Coast Basin properties have experienced damages and production downtime as a result of recent storms including Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and more recently Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Losses could occur for uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable or that any particular types of coverage will be available. An event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured drilling and operating activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. We maintain several types of insurance to cover our operations, including worker’s compensation, maritime employer’s liability and comprehensive general liability. Amounts over base coverages are provided by primary and excess umbrella liability policies. We also maintain operator’s extra expense coverage, which covers the control of drilling or producing wells as well as redrilling expenses and pollution coverage for wells out of control. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable, or we could experience losses that are not insured or that exceed the maximum limits under our insurance policies. If a significant event that is not fully insured or indemnified occurs, it could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Lower oil and natural gas prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. We use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “full cost ceiling” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of hedges in place, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If at the end of any fiscal period we determine that the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the full cost ceiling, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings in the period then ended. This is called a “ceiling test write-down.” This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce our net income and stockholders’ equity. As a result of the decline in commodity prices, during 2008 we recognized $266.2 million in ceiling test write-downs. We may recognize additional write-downs if commodity prices continue to decline or if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to market oil and natural gas. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Our ability to market oil and natural gas also depends on other factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the level of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas; • the proximity of natural gas production to natural gas pipelines; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; • the availability of alternate fuel sources; 15 Table of Contents • the effect of inclement weather, such as hurricanes; • state and federal regulation of oil and natural gas marketing; and • federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. If these factors were to change dramatically, our ability to market oil and natural gas or obtain favorable prices for our oil and natural gas could be adversely affected. We face strong competition from larger oil and natural gas companies that may negatively affect our ability to carry on operations. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Factors that affect our ability to compete successfully in the marketplace include: • the availability of funds and information relating to a property; • the standards established by us for the minimum projected return on investment; and • the transportation of natural gas. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, substantial independent energy companies, affiliates of major interstate and intrastate pipelines and national and local natural gas gatherers, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than we do. If we are unable to successfully compete against our competitors, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. You should not place undue reliance on reserve information because reserve information represents estimates. This Form 10-K contains estimates of historical oil and natural gas reserves, and the historical estimated future net cash flows attributable to those reserves, prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. and Netherland, Sewell and Associates, Inc. our independent petroleum and geological engineers. Our estimate of proved reserves is based on the quantities of oil, gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. There are, however, numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows from such reserves, including factors beyond our control and the control of Ryder Scott and Netherland, Sewell and Associates, Inc. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to these reserves, is a function of: • the available data; • assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices; • estimated expenditures for future development and exploitation activities; and • engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserves and future cash flows may also be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities and oil and natural gas prices. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from those reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and estimates in this document. In calculating reserves on an Mcfe basis, oil and natural gas liquids were converted to natural gas equivalent at the ratio of six Mcf of natural gas to one Bbl of oil or natural gas liquid. 16 Table of Contents Approximately 27% of our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2008 are undeveloped and 12% are developed, non-producing. Estimates of undeveloped and non-producing reserves, by their nature, are less certain. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop and produce our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards, we cannot assure you that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the actual results will be as estimated. In addition, the recovery of undeveloped reserves is generally subject to the approval of development plans and related activities by applicable state and/or federal agencies. Statutes and regulations may affect both the timing and quantity of recovery of estimated reserves. Such statutes and regulations, and their enforcement, have changed in the past and may change in the future, and may result in upward or downward revisions to current estimated proved reserves. You should not assume that the present value of future net revenues referred to in this document is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with Commission requirements, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in consumption by natural gas purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation may also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the Commission to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor. We may be unable to successfully identify, execute or effectively integrate future acquisitions, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Acquisitions of oil and gas businesses and properties have been an important element of our business, and we will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future. In the last several years, we have pursued and consummated acquisitions that have provided us opportunities to grow our production and reserves. Although we regularly engage in discussions with, and submit proposals to, acquisition candidates, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may be unable to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations may require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and our resources. Even if we complete additional acquisitions, continued acquisition financing may not be available or available on reasonable terms, any new businesses may not generate revenues comparable to our existing business, the anticipated cost efficiencies or synergies may not be realized and these businesses may not be integrated successfully or operated profitably. The success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and to assess possible environmental liabilities. Our inability to successfully identify, execute or effectively integrate future acquisitions may negatively affect our results of operations. Even though we perform due diligence reviews (including a review of title and other records) of the major properties we seek to acquire that we believe is consistent with industry practices, these reviews are inherently incomplete. It is generally not feasible for us to perform an in-depth review of every individual property and all records involved in each acquisition. However, even an in-depth review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Even when problems are identified, we may assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired businesses and properties. The discovery of any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. In addition, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. Our bank credit facility contains certain covenants that limit, or which may have the effect of limiting, among other things acquisitions, capital expenditures, the sale of assets and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Hedging production may limit potential gains from increases in commodity prices or result in losses. We enter into hedging arrangements from time to time to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices and to achieve more predictable cash flow. Our hedges at December 31, 2008 are costless collars and swap contracts that are placed with the commodity trading branches of JP Morgan and Calyon, each of whom participates in our bank credit facility. We cannot assure you that these or future counterparties will not become credit risks in the future. Hedging arrangements expose us to risks in some circumstances, including situations when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on the contract obligations or there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and actual prices received. These hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we could receive from increases in the market or spot prices for natural gas and oil. Oil and gas hedges increased (reduced) our total oil and gas sales by approximately ($8.3) million, $9.9 million and $6.8 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We cannot assure you that the hedging transactions we have entered into, or will enter into, will adequately protect us from fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices. 17 Table of Contents The loss of key management or technical personnel could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a diverse group of key senior management and technical personnel. In addition, we employ numerous other skilled technical personnel, including geologists, geophysicists and engineers that are essential to our operations. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of any of these key management or technical personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. Operating hazards may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as: • unexpected drilling conditions including blowouts, cratering and explosions; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; • equipment failures, fires or accidents; • pollution and other environmental risks; and • shortages in experienced labor or shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. These risks could result in substantial losses to us from injury and loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Our offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions and more extensive governmental regulation. These regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage or result in the interruption or termination of operations. Environmental compliance costs and environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require the acquisition of permits before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment from drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. The trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. The enactment of stricter legislation or the adoption of stricter regulations could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as on the oil and natural gas industry in general. 18 Table of Contents Our operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. We could also be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for our operations, including limited coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages, but this insurance may not extend to the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden and accidental environmental damages and further may not cover environmental damages that occur over time. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose the ability to continue exploration or production activities upon substantial portions of our properties if certain environmental damages occur. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act, could have a material adverse impact on us. Ownership of working interests and overriding royalty interests in certain of our properties by certain of our officers and directors potentially creates conflicts of interest. Certain of our executive officers and directors or their respective affiliates are working interest owners or overriding royalty interest owners in certain properties. In their capacity as working interest owners, they are required to pay their proportionate share of all costs and are entitled to receive their proportionate share of revenues in the normal course of business. As overriding royalty interest owners they are entitled to receive their proportionate share of revenues in the normal course of business. There is a potential conflict of interest between us and such officers and directors with respect to the drilling of additional wells or other development operations with respect to these properties. Risks Relating to Our Outstanding Common Stock Our stock price could be volatile, which could cause you to lose part or all of your investment. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other energy companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. During 2008, our stock price ranged from a low of $4.45 per share (on December 5, 2008) to a high of $29.18 per share (on July 2, 2008). Factors such as announcements concerning changes in prices of oil and natural gas, the success of our acquisition, exploration and development activities, the availability of capital, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations and financial results, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. From time to time, there has been limited trading volume in our common stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will continue to be a trading market or that any securities research analysts will continue to provide research coverage with respect to our common stock. It is possible that such factors will adversely affect the market for our common stock. Issuance of shares in connection with financing transactions or under stock incentive plans will dilute current stockholders. We have issued 1,495,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock, which are presently convertible into 5,147,734 shares of our common stock. In addition, pursuant to our stock incentive plan, our management is authorized to grant stock awards to our employees, directors and consultants. You will incur dilution upon the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, the exercise of any outstanding stock awards or the grant of any restricted stock. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our stock. At December 31, 2008, we had reserved approximately 2.6 million shares of common stock for issuance under outstanding options and approximately 5.1 million shares issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock. All of these shares of common stock are registered for sale or resale on currently effective registration statements. We may issue additional restricted securities or register additional shares of common stock under the Securities Act in the future. The issuance of a significant number of shares of common stock upon the exercise of stock options, the granting of restricted stock or the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock, or the availability for sale, or sale, of a substantial number of the shares of common stock eligible for future sale under effective registration statements, under Rule 144 or otherwise, could adversely affect the market price of the common stock. 19 Table of Contents Provisions in certificate of incorporation, bylaws and shareholder rights plan could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and shareholder rights plan may delay, discourage, prevent or render more difficult an attempt to obtain control of our company, whether through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or otherwise. These provisions include: • the charter authorization of “blank check” preferred stock; • provisions that directors may be removed only for cause, and then only on approval of holders of a majority of the outstanding voting stock; • a restriction on the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting and take actions by written consent; and • provisions regulating the ability of our stockholders to nominate directors for election or to bring matters for action at annual meetings of our stockholders. In November 2001, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, pursuant to which uncertificated preferred stock purchase rights were distributed to our stockholders at a rate of one right for each share of common stock held of record as of November 19, 2001. The rights plan is designed to enhance the board’s ability to prevent an acquirer from depriving stockholders of the long-term value of their investment and to protect stockholders against attempts to acquire us by means of unfair or abusive takeover tactics. However, the existence of the rights plan may impede a takeover not supported by our board, including a takeover that may be desired by a majority of our stockholders or involving a premium over the prevailing stock price. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is restricted. We have not paid dividends on our common stock, cash or otherwise, and intend to retain our cash flow from operations for the future operation and development of our business. We are currently restricted from paying dividends on our common stock by our bank credit facility, the indenture governing the 10 3/8% senior notes and, in some circumstances, by the terms of our Series B Preferred Stock. Any future dividends also may be restricted by our then-existing debt agreements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 20 Table of Contents 