Risk Factors. We have several cross-license agreements with other companies. In the future, it may be necessary or advantageous for us to obtain additional patent licenses from existing or other parties, but these license agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Employees At December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 6,400 employees compared to approximately 7,400 employees at December 31, 2007. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly highly skilled design, process and test engineers necessary for the manufacture of existing products and the development of new products and processes. The competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees, most of whom are not subject to an employment agreement for a specified term or a post-employment non-competition agreement, could harm our business. Backlog We accept purchase orders for deliveries covering periods from one day up to approximately one year. However, purchase orders can generally be revised or cancelled by the customer without penalty. In addition, significant portions of our sales are ordered with relatively short lead times, often referred to as “turns business.” Considering these industry practices and our experience, we do not believe the total of customer purchase orders outstanding (backlog) provides meaningful information that can be relied on to predict actual sales for future periods. 10 Table of Contents Geographic Areas In 2008, 14% of our net revenues were derived from customers in the United States, 48% from customers in Asia, 37% from customers in Europe and 1% from customers in other regions. This disclosure is determined based on the destination of our products when they are shipped. As of December 31, 2008, we owned long-lived assets in the United States amounting to $127 million, in France amounting to $201 million, in Germany amounting to $23 million and in the United Kingdom amounting to $7 million. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Seasonality The semiconductor industry is increasingly characterized by annual seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. A significant portion of our revenue comes from sales to customers supplying consumer markets and international sales. As a result, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in particular quarters of our fiscal year. The industry has also been impacted by significant shifts in consumer demand due to economic downturns or other factors, which may result in diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have experienced substantial quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and operating results and expect, in the future, to continue to experience short term period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could also affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN VOLATILITY OR A DECLINE IN OUR STOCK PRICE. Our future operating results will be subject to quarterly variations based upon a wide variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include: • the nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets addressed by our products; • our transition to a fab-lite strategy; • our dependence on selling through distributors; • our increased dependence on outside foundries and their ability to meet our volume, quality and delivery objectives, particularly during times of increasing demand along with inventory excesses or shortages due to reliance on third party manufacturers; • global economic and political conditions; • compliance with U.S. and international trade and export laws and regulations by us and our distributors; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies; • ability of independent assembly contractors to meet our volume, quality and delivery objectives; • success with disposal or restructuring activities, including disposition of our Heilbronn facility; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; 11 Table of Contents • the average margin of the mix of products we sell; • third party intellectual property infringement claims; • the highly competitive nature of our markets; • the pace of technological change; • natural disasters or terrorist acts; • assessment of internal controls over financial reporting; • ability to meet our debt obligations; • availability of additional financing; • potential impairment and liquidity of auction-rate securities; • our ability to maintain good relationships with our customers; • long-term contracts with our customers; • integration of new businesses or products; • our compliance with international, federal and state, environmental, privacy and other regulations; • personnel changes; • business interruptions; • system integration disruptions; • anti-takeover effects in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and preferred shares rights agreement; • the unfunded nature of our foreign pension plans and that any requirement to fund these plans could negatively impact our cash position; • the effects of our acquisition strategy, such as unanticipated accounting charges, which may adversely affect our results of operations; • utilization of our manufacturing capacity; • disruptions to the availability of raw materials which could disrupt our ability to supply products to our customers; • costs associated with, and the outcome of, any litigation to which we are, or may become, a party; • product liability claims that may arise, which could result in significant costs and damage to reputation; • audits of our income tax returns, both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions; and • compliance with economic incentive terms in certain government grants. Any unfavorable changes in any of these factors could harm our operating results and may result in volatility or a decline in our stock price. We believe that our future sales will depend substantially on the success of our new products. Our new products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products or systems at their design stage. However, design wins can precede volume sales by a year or more. We may not be successful in achieving design wins or design wins may not result in future revenues, which depend in large part on the success of the customer’s end product or system. The average selling price of each of our products usually declines as individual products mature and competitors enter the market. To offset average selling price decreases, we rely primarily on reducing costs to manufacture those products, increasing unit sales to absorb fixed costs and introducing new, higher priced products which incorporate advanced features or integrated technologies to address new or emerging markets. Our operating results could be harmed if such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner. From time to time, 12 Table of Contents our quarterly revenues and operating results can become more dependent upon orders booked and shipped within a given quarter and, accordingly, our quarterly results can become less predictable and subject to greater variability. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on the recovery of global economic growth generally and on growth in various electronics industries that use semiconductors specifically, including manufacturers of computers, telecommunications equipment, automotive electronics, industrial controls, consumer electronics, data networking equipment and military equipment. The semiconductor industry has the ability to supply more products than demand requires. Our ability to be profitable will depend heavily upon a better supply and demand balance within the semiconductor industry. THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY CREATES FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical, characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has also experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. Global semiconductor sales increased 9% to $248 billion in 2006, and 3% to $256 billion in 2007. In 2008, global semiconductor sales decreased by 3% to $249 billion and are estimated by the Semiconductor Industry Association to decrease 6% to $234 billion in 2009. Our operating results have been harmed by industry-wide fluctuations in the demand for semiconductors, which resulted in under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity and declining gross margins. In the past we have recorded significant charges to recognize impairment in the value of our manufacturing equipment, the cost to reduce workforce, and other restructuring costs. Our business may be harmed in the future not only by cyclical conditions in the semiconductor industry as a whole but also by slower growth in any of the markets served by our products. The semiconductor industry is increasingly characterized by annual seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. A significant portion of our revenue comes from sales to customers supplying consumer markets and international sales. As a result, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in particular quarters of our fiscal year. The industry has also been impacted by significant shifts in consumer demand due to economic downturns or other factors, which may result in diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have experienced substantial quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and operating results and expect, in the future, to continue to experience short term period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. THE EFFECTS OF THE CURRENT GLOBAL RECESSIONARY MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT MAY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. The current global recessionary macroeconomic environment has impacted levels of consumer spending, caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy. These macroeconomic developments could continue to negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, current or potential customers or distributors may not pay us or may delay paying us for previously purchased products. In addition, if consumer spending continues to decrease, we could experience diminished demand for our products. Finally, if the banking system or the financial markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. WE COULD EXPERIENCE DISRUPTION OF OUR BUSINESS AS WE TRANSITION TO A FAB-LITE STRATEGY AND INCREASE DEPENDENCE ON OUTSIDE FOUNDRIES, WHERE SUCH FOUNDRIES MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS AND MAY NOT MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY OBJECTIVES OR MAY ABANDON FABRICATION PROCESSES THAT WE REQUIRE. As part of our fab-lite strategy, we have reduced the number of manufacturing facilities we own. In May 2008, we completed the sale of our North Tyneside, United Kingdom wafer fabrication facility. In December 2008, we 13 Table of Contents sold our wafer fabrication operation in Heilbronn, Germany. In the future, we will be increasingly relying on the utilization of third-party foundry manufacturing partners. As part of this transition we have expanded and will continue to expand our foundry relationships by entering into new agreements with third-party foundries. If these agreements are not completed on a timely basis, or the transfer of production is delayed for other reasons, the supply of certain of our products could be disrupted, which could harm our business. In addition, difficulties in production yields can often occur when transitioning to a new third-party manufacturer. If such foundries fail to deliver quality products and components on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. Implementation of our new fab-lite strategy will expose us to the following risks: • reduced control over delivery schedules and product costs; • manufacturing costs that are higher than anticipated; • inability of our manufacturing subcontractors to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote adequate capacity to produce our products; • possible abandonment of fabrication processes by our manufacturing subcontractors for products that are strategically important to us; • decline in product quality and reliability; • inability to maintain continuing relationships with our suppliers; • restricted ability to meet customer demand when faced with product shortages; and • increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. If any of the above risks are realized, we could experience an interruption in our supply chain or an increase in costs, which could delay or decrease our revenue or harm our business. We hope to mitigate these risks with a strategy of qualifying multiple subcontractors. However, there can be no guarantee that any strategy will eliminate these risks. Additionally, since most outside foundries are located in foreign countries, we are subject to certain risks generally associated with contracting with foreign manufacturers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions and changes in tariff and freight rates. Accordingly, we may experience problems in timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The terms on which we will be able to obtain wafer production for our products, and the timing and volume of such production will be substantially dependent on future agreements to be negotiated with semiconductor foundries. We cannot be certain that the agreements we reach with such foundries will be on terms reasonable to us. Therefore, any agreements reached with semiconductor foundries may be short-term and possibly non-renewable, and hence provide less certainty regarding the supply and pricing of wafers for our products. During economic upturns in the semiconductor industry we will not be able to guarantee that our third party foundries will be able to increase manufacturing capacity to a level that meets demand for our products, which would prevent us from meeting increased customer demand and harm our business. Also during times of increased demand for our products, if such foundries are able to meet such demand, it may be at higher wafer prices, which would reduce our gross margins on such products or require us to offset the increased price by increasing prices for our customers, either of which would harm our business and operating results. OUR REVENUES ARE DEPENDENT ON SELLING THROUGH DISTRIBUTORS. Sales through distributors accounted for 48%, 44% and 41% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We market and sell our products through third-party distributors pursuant to agreements that can generally be terminated for convenience by either party upon relatively short notice to the other party. These agreements are non-exclusive and also permit our distributors to offer our competitors’ products. 14 Table of Contents During the six months ended June 30, 2008, our sales agreements with independent distributors in Europe were accounted for using a “sell-in” revenue recognition model. Sales to these distributors before July 1, 2008 were made under arrangements where pricing was fixed at the time of shipment. In addition, the arrangements did not provide these distributors with allowances such as price protection or rights of return upon termination of the arrangement. As a result, our policy was to recognize revenue upon shipment to these distributors. Effective July 1, 2008, we entered into revised agreements with certain European distributors that allow additional rights, including future price concessions at the time of resale, price protection and the right to return products upon termination of the distribution agreement. As a result of uncertainties over finalization of pricing for shipments to these distributors, we consider that the sale prices are not “fixed or determinable” at the time of shipment to these distributors. Revenues and related costs will be deferred until the products are sold by the distributor to their end customers. The objective of this conversion is to enable us to better manage end-customer pricing, track design registrations for proprietary products, and improve our visibility into distribution inventory and sales levels. We expect that this conversion will result in improved operating results for us and our distribution partners in the future. Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on receiving pertinent, accurate and timely data from our distributors. Distributors provide us periodic data regarding the product, price, quantity, and end customer when products are resold as well as the quantities of our products they still have in stock. Because the data set is large and complex and because there may be errors in the reported data, we must use estimates and apply judgments to reconcile distributors’ reported inventories to their activities. Actual results could vary from those estimates. We are dependent on our distributors to supplement our direct marketing and sales efforts. If any significant distributor or a substantial number of our distributors terminated their relationship with us decided to market our competitors’ products over our products, were unable to sell our products or were unable to pay us for products sold for any reason, our ability to bring our products to market would be negatively impacted, we may have difficulty in collecting outstanding receivable balances, and we may incur other charges or adjustments resulting in a material adverse impact to our revenues and operating results. For example, in the three months ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a one time bad debt charge of $12 million related to an Asian distributor whose business was extraordinarily impacted following their addition to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List, which prohibits us from shipping products to the distributor. Additionally, distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. For certain distributors, we have signed agreements which protect the value of their inventory of our products against price reductions, as well as provide for rights of return under specific conditions. In addition, certain agreements with our distributors also contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. We defer the gross margins on our sales to these distributors, until the applicable products are re-sold by the distributors. However, in the event of an unexpected significant decline in the price of our products or significant return of unsold inventory, we may experience inventory write-downs, charges to reimburse costs incurred by distributors, or other charges or adjustments which could harm our revenues and operating results. WE BUILD SEMICONDUCTORS BASED ON FORECASTED DEMAND, AND AS A RESULT, CHANGES TO FORECASTS FROM ACTUAL DEMAND MAY RESULT IN EXCESS INVENTORY OR OUR INABILITY TO FILL CUSTOMER ORDERS ON A TIMELY BASIS WHICH MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. We schedule production and build semiconductor devices based primarily on our internal forecasts, as well as non-binding forecasts from customers for orders which may be cancelled or rescheduled with short notice. Our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery in a much shorter period than our lead time to fully fabricate and test devices. Because the markets we serve are volatile and subject to rapid technological, price and end user demand changes, our forecasts of unit quantities to build may be significantly incorrect. Changes to forecasted demand from actual demand may result in us producing unit quantities in excess of orders from customers, which could result in the need to record additional expense for the write-down of inventory, negatively affecting gross margins and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents As we transition to increased dependence on outside foundries, we will have less control over modifying production schedules to match changes in forecasted demand. If we commit to obtaining foundry wafers and cannot cancel or reschedule commitments without material costs or cancellation penalties, we may be forced to purchase inventory in excess of demand, which could result in a write-down of inventories negatively affecting gross margins and results of operations. Conversely, failure to produce or obtain sufficient wafers for increased demand could cause us to miss revenue opportunities and, if significant, could impact our customers’ ability to sell products, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE LAWS RELATING TO TRADE AND EXPORT CONTROLS, AND A VIOLATION OF, OR CHANGE IN, THESE LAWS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. For hardware, software or technology exported from the U.S. or otherwise subject to U.S. jurisdiction, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). Hardware, software or technology exported from other countries may also be subject to local laws and regulations governing international trade. Under these laws and regulations, we are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses or other approvals, if required, for exports of hardware, software, technology, as well as the provision of technical assistance. We are also required to obtain export licenses, if required, prior to transferring technical data or software to foreign persons. In addition, we are required to obtain necessary export licenses prior to the export or re-export of hardware, software and technology (i) to any person, entity, organization or other party identified on the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Persons or Entity List, the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons List or the Department of State’s Debarred List; or (ii) for use in nuclear, chemical/biological weapons, rocket systems or unmanned air vehicle applications. A determination by the U.S. or local government that Atmel has failed to comply with one or more of these export control laws or trade sanctions, including failure to properly restrict an export to the persons, entities or countries set forth on the government restricted party lists, could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, loss of revenues from certain customers, and debarment from participation in U.S. government contracts. Further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. Any one or more of these sanctions or a change in law or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are enhancing our export compliance program, including analyzing product shipments and technology transfers, working with U.S. government officials to ensure compliance with applicable U.S. export laws and regulations and developing additional operational procedures. A determination by the U.S. government that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export controls or trade sanctions could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges and debarment from U.S. participation in government contracts. Any one or more of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS, AND REVENUES AND COSTS DENOMINATED IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING RESULTS WITH CHANGES IN THESE FOREIGN CURRENCIES AGAINST THE DOLLAR. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Our primary exposure relates to operating expenses in Europe, where a significant amount of our manufacturing is located. 16 Table of Contents When we take an order denominated in a foreign currency we will receive fewer dollars than we initially anticipated if that local currency weakens against the dollar before we ship our product, which will reduce revenue. Conversely, revenues will be positively impacted if the local currency strengthens against the dollar. In Europe, where we have significant operations with costs denominated in European currencies, costs will decrease if the local currency weakens. Conversely, costs will increase if the local currency strengthens against the dollar. The net effect of unfavorable exchange rates in the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to the average exchange rates in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, resulted in an adverse impact to operating results of $24 million and $27 million, respectively. This impact is determined assuming that all foreign currency denominated transactions that occurred in the year ended December 31, 2008 were recorded using the average foreign currency exchange rates in the same period in 2007. Sales denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro were 22%, 22% and 19% of total net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Sales denominated in Yen were 1% of total net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Costs denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, were 47%, 51% and 52% of total costs in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also face the risk that our accounts receivables denominated in foreign currencies will be devalued if such foreign currencies weaken quickly and significantly against the dollar. Approximately 30% and 23% of our accounts receivables were denominated in foreign currency as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We also face the risk that our accounts payable and debt obligations denominated in foreign currencies will increase if such foreign currencies strengthen quickly and significantly against the dollar. Approximately 36% and 54% of our accounts payable were denominated in foreign currency as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately 12% and 18% of our debt obligations were denominated in foreign currency as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. WE DEPEND ON INDEPENDENT ASSEMBLY CONTRACTORS WHICH MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS AND WHICH MAY NOT MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY OBJECTIVES. We currently manufacture a majority of the wafers for our products at our fabrication facilities. The wafers are then sorted and tested at our facilities. After wafer testing, we ship the wafers to one of our independent assembly contractors located in China, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan or Thailand where the wafers are separated into die, packaged and, in some cases, tested. Our reliance on independent contractors to assemble, package and test our products involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules, the potential lack of adequate capacity and discontinuance or phase-out of the contractors’ assembly processes. These independent contractors may not continue to assemble, package and test our products for a variety of reasons. Moreover, because our assembly contractors are located in foreign countries, we are subject to certain risks generally associated with contracting with foreign suppliers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, including export controls, and changes in tariff and freight rates. Accordingly, we may experience problems in timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DISPOSAL OR RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES. In May 2008, we completed the sale of our North Tyneside, United Kingdom manufacturing facility. In December 2008, we completed the sale of our wafer fabrication operation in Heilbronn, Germany. We are continually reviewing potential changes in our business and asset portfolio throughout our worldwide operations, including those located in Europe in order to enhance our overall competitiveness and viability. However, reducing our wafer fabrication capacity involves significant potential costs and delays, particularly in Europe, where the extensive statutory protection of employees imposes substantial restrictions on employers when the market requires downsizing. Such costs and delays include compensation to employees and local government agencies, requirements and approvals of governmental and judicial bodies and the potential requirement to repay governmental subsidies. We have in the past and may in the future experience labor union or workers council objections, or other difficulties, while implementing a reduction of the number of employees. Significant difficulties that we experience 17 Table of Contents could harm our business and operating results, either by deterring needed headcount reduction or by the additional employee severance costs resulting from employee reduction actions in Europe relative to America or Asia. We continue to evaluate the existing restructuring and asset impairment reserves related to previously implemented restructuring plans. As a result, there may be additional restructuring charges or reversals or recoveries of previous charges. However, we may incur additional restructuring and asset impairment charges in connection with additional restructuring plans adopted in the future. Any such restructuring or asset impairment charges recorded in the future could significantly harm our business and operating results. On February 4, 2009, we announced that we are pursuing strategic alternatives for our ASIC business and related manufacturing assets which include our Rousset, France fabrication facility, which alternatives include a potential sale. We have engaged a third party financial advisor in connection with the evaluation of strategic alternatives for the ASIC business. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO IMPLEMENT NEW MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGIES OR FAIL TO ACHIEVE ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURING YIELDS, OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE HARMED. Whether demand for semiconductors is rising or falling, we are constantly required by competitive pressures in the industry to successfully implement new manufacturing technologies in order to reduce the geometries of our semiconductors and produce more integrated circuits per wafer. We are developing processes that support effective feature sizes as small as 0.13-microns, and we are studying how to implement advanced manufacturing processes with even smaller feature sizes such as 0.065-microns. Fabrication of our integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. Whether through the use of our foundries or third-party manufacturers, we may experience problems in achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of wafers, particularly during a transition in the manufacturing process technology for our products. We have previously experienced production delays and yield difficulties in connection with earlier expansions of our wafer fabrication capacity or transitions in manufacturing process technology. Production delays or difficulties in achieving acceptable yields at any of our fabrication facilities or at the fabrication facilities of our third-party manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to obtain the additional cash from operations or external financing necessary to fund the implementation of new manufacturing technologies. WE MAY FACE THIRD PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS THAT COULD BE COSTLY TO DEFEND AND RESULT IN LOSS OF SIGNIFICANT RIGHTS. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which on occasion have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights covering our products or processes. In the past, we have received specific allegations from major companies alleging that certain of our products infringe patents owned by such companies. In order to avoid the significant costs associated with our defense in litigation involving such claims, we may license the use of the technologies that are the subject of these claims from such companies and be required to make corresponding royalty payments, which may harm our operating results. We have in the past been involved in intellectual property infringement lawsuits, which harmed our operating results. We are currently involved in several intellectual property infringement lawsuits, which may harm our future operating results. Although we intend to vigorously defend against any such lawsuits, we may not prevail given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in patent and intellectual property litigation. Moreover, the cost of defending against such litigation, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, could be substantial, whatever the outcome. If any patent or other intellectual property claims against us are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies subject to these claims, and if we are unable to obtain a license on 18 Table of Contents acceptable terms, license a substitute technology or design new technology to avoid infringement, our business and operating results may be significantly harmed. We have several cross-license agreements with other companies. In the future, it may be necessary or advantageous for us to obtain additional patent licenses from existing or other parties, but these license agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY SUFFER PRICE REDUCTIONS, REDUCED REVENUES, REDUCED GROSS MARGINS AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price decline. Throughout our product line, we compete with a number of large semiconductor manufacturers, such as AMD, Cypress, Freescale, Fujitsu, Hitachi, IBM, Infineon, Intel, LSI Logic, Microchip, Philips, Renesas, Samsung, Sharp, Spansion, STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments and Toshiba. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and management resources than we do. As we have introduced new products we are increasingly competing directly with these companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell products in specialized markets that our products address. We compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our products, including their speed, density, power usage, reliability and specialty packaging alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. During the last several years, we have experienced significant price competition in several business segments, especially in our nonvolatile memory segment for EPROM, Serial EEPROM and Flash memory products, as well as in our commodity microcontrollers and smart cards. We expect continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors and new entrants, new technology and cyclical demand, which, among other factors, will likely maintain the recent trend of declining average selling prices for our products. In addition to the factors described above, our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the following: • our success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies and processes; • our ability to offer integrated solutions using our advanced nonvolatile memory process with other technologies; • the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their systems; • product introductions by our competitors; • the number and nature of our competitors in a given market; • the incumbency of our competitors at potential new customers; • our ability to minimize production costs by outsourcing our manufacturing, assembly and testing functions; and • general market and economic conditions. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. WE MUST KEEP PACE WITH TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE. The average selling prices of our products historically have decreased over the products’ lives and are expected to continue to do so. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products which compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. We are continually designing and commercializing new and improved products to maintain our competitive position. These new products typically are more technologically complex than their predecessors, and thus have increased potential for delays in their introduction. 19 Table of Contents The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including timely completion and introduction of new product designs, achievement of acceptable fabrication yields and market acceptance. Our development of new products and our customers’ decision to design them into their systems can take as long as three years, depending upon the complexity of the device and the application. Accordingly, new product development requires a long-term forecast of market trends and customer needs, and the successful introduction of our products may be adversely affected by competing products or by technologies serving the markets addressed by our products. Our qualification process involves multiple cycles of testing and improving a product’s functionality to ensure that our products operate in accordance with design specifications. If we experience delays in the introduction of new products, our future operating results could be harmed. In addition, new product introductions frequently depend on our development and implementation of new process technologies, and our future growth will depend in part upon the successful development and market acceptance of these process technologies. Our integrated solution products require more technically sophisticated sales and marketing personnel to market these products successfully to customers. We are developing new products with smaller feature sizes, the fabrication of which will be substantially more complex than fabrication of our current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our operating results will be harmed. Our new product development, process development or marketing and sales efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve market acceptance and price expectations for our new products may not be achieved, any of which could harm our business. OUR OPERATING RESULTS ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO VARIOUS POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS. Sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for 86%, 87% and 86% of net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect that revenues derived from international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues. International sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: • greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property; • reduced flexibility and increased cost of staffing adjustments, particularly in France; • longer collection cycles; • potential unexpected changes in regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws, and environmental and privacy regulations; and • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. Some of our distributors, third-party foundries and other business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to manage the risks of international operations successfully, our business may be materially adversely affected if our distributors, third-party foundries and other business partners are not able to manage these risks successfully. Further, we purchase a significant portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers, and we incur labor and other operating costs in foreign currencies, particularly at our French manufacturing facility. As a result, our costs will fluctuate along with the currencies and general economic conditions in the countries in which we do business, which could harm our operating results. Approximately 23%, 22% and 19% of our net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies. Operating costs denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, were approximately 47%, 51% and 52% of total operating costs in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 20 Table of Contents OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE HARMED BY NATURAL DISASTERS OR TERRORIST ACTS. Since the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon in 2001, certain insurance coverage has either been reduced or made subject to additional conditions by our insurance carriers, and we have not been able to maintain all necessary insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. Instead, we have relied to a greater degree on self-insurance. For example, we now self-insure property losses up to $10 million per event. Our headquarters, some of our manufacturing facilities, the manufacturing facilities of third party foundries and some of our major vendors’ and customers’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults and in potential terrorist target areas. If a major earthquake, other disaster or a terrorist act impacts us and insurance coverage is unavailable for any reason, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment, we may suffer a temporary halt in our ability to manufacture and transport products and we could suffer damages of an amount sufficient to harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A LACK OF EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING COULD RESULT IN AN INABILITY TO ACCURATELY REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS, WHICH COULD LEAD TO A LOSS OF INVESTOR CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTS AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal controls. Evaluations of the effectiveness of our internal controls in the future may lead our management to determine that internal control over financial reporting is no longer effective. Such conclusions may result from our failure to implement controls for changes in our business, or deterioration in the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including a failure to implement effective new controls to address changes in our business could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. OUR DEBT LEVELS COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING, AND OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS WILL BE DEPENDENT UPON OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE. As of December 31, 2008, our total debt was $145 million, compared to $163 million at December 31, 2007. Our debt-to-equity ratio was 0.91 and 1.07 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Increases in our debt-to-equity ratio could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Certain of our debt facilities contain terms that subject us to financial and other covenants. We were in compliance with all of our covenants as of December 31, 2008. From time to time our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend upon our ability to raise additional financing and on our future performance and ability to generate substantial cash flow from operations, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet debt obligations or otherwise are obliged to repay any debt prior to its due date, our available cash would be depleted, perhaps seriously, and our ability to fund operations harmed. In addition, our ability to service long-term debt in the U.S. or to obtain cash for other needs from our foreign subsidiaries may be structurally impeded, as a substantial portion of our operations are conducted through our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash flow and ability to service debt are partially dependent upon the liquidity and earnings of our subsidiaries as well as the distribution of those earnings, or repayment of loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries, to the U.S. parent corporation. These foreign subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and may have limited or no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amount to us, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or any other form. 21 Table of Contents WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THAT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE. We intend to continue to make capital investments to support new products and manufacturing processes that achieve manufacturing cost reductions and improved yields. We may seek additional equity or debt financing to fund operations, strategic transactions, or other projects. The timing and amount of such capital requirements cannot be precisely determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including demand for products, product mix, changes in semiconductor industry conditions and competitive factors. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. A PORTION OF OUR INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO IS INVESTED IN AUCTION-RATE SECURITIES. FAILURES IN THESE AUCTIONS MAY AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY, WHILE RATING DOWNGRADES OF THE SECURITY ISSUER AND/OR THE THIRD-PARTIES INSURING SUCH INVESTMENTS MAY REQUIRE US TO ADJUST THE CARRYING VALUE OF THESE INVESTMENTS THROUGH AN IMPAIRMENT CHARGE. Approximately $9 million of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2008 was invested in auction-rate securities. Auction-rate securities are securities that are structured with short-term interest rate reset dates of generally less than ninety days but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. At the end of each reset period, investors can sell or continue to hold the securities at par. These securities are subject to fluctuations in fair value depending on the supply and demand at each auction. These auction-rate securities have failed auctions in the year ended December 31, 2008. If the auctions for the securities we own continue to fail, the investments may not be readily convertible to cash until a future auction of these investments is successful. If the credit rating of either the security issuer or the third-party insurer underlying the investments deteriorates, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge. At December 31, 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $1 million related to a decline in the value of certain of our auction-rate securities which is recorded in interest and other (expenses) income, net. We believe that the impairment is “other than temporary” due to the devaluation of the security over the past year and the possible inability to be able to liquidate the securities at par value. PROBLEMS THAT WE EXPERIENCE WITH KEY CUSTOMERS OR DISTRIBUTORS MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to maintain close, satisfactory relationships with large customers is important to our business. A reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from our large customers would harm our business. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or reduced orders by any of our key customers, could harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, our customers may vary order levels significantly from period to period, and customers may not continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. We sell many of our products through distributors. Our distributors could experience financial difficulties, including lack of access to credit, or otherwise reduce or discontinue sales of our products. Our distributors could commence or increase sales of our competitors’ products. Distributors typically are not highly capitalized and may experience difficulties during times of economic contraction. If our distributors were to become insolvent, their inability to maintain their business and sales could negatively impact our business and revenue. Also, one or more of our distributors or their affiliates may be identified in the future on the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Persons or Entity List, the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons Lists, or the Department of State’s Debarred Parties List, in which case we would not be permitted to sell our products through such distributors. In any of these cases, our business or results from operations could be materially harmed. For example, in the three months ended December 31, 2008, we took a one-time charge for a bad debt provision of $12 million related to an Asian distributor whose business was impacted following their addition to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity list, which prohibits us from shipping products to the distributor. Our sales terms for Asian distributors generally include no rights of return and no stock rotation privileges. However, as we evaluate how to refine our distribution strategy, we may need to modify our sales terms or make changes to our distributor base, which may impact our future revenues in this region. It may take time for us to convert systems and processes to support modified sales terms. It may also take time for us to identify financially 22 Table of Contents viable distributors and help them develop high quality support services. There can be no assurances that we will be able to manage these changes in an efficient and timely manner, or that our net revenues, result of operations and financial position will not be negatively impacted as a result. WE ARE NOT PROTECTED BY LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of an early termination by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we will be able to rapidly replace that revenue source, which would harm our financial results. OUR FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE BUSINESSES OR PRODUCTS WE HAVE ACQUIRED COULD DISRUPT OR HARM OUR ONGOING BUSINESS. We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire additional, complementary businesses, facilities, products and technologies. For example, we acquired Quantum Research Group Ltd. (“Quantum”) in March 2008 for $96 million. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends, in part, upon whether the integration of the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner. Moreover, successful acquisitions in the semiconductor industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries because such acquisitions require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. The difficulties of such integration may be increased by the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated, and the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures. The integration of operations following an acquisition requires the dedication of management resources that may distract attention from the day-to-day business and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. The inability of management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transactions. In addition, under U.S. GAAP, we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. In addition, we are required to review our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on an annual basis. If presently unforeseen events or changes in circumstances arise which indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable, we will be required to perform impairment reviews of these assets. An impairment review could result in a write-down of all or a portion of these assets to their fair values. We intend to perform an annual impairment review during the fourth quarter of each year or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. In light of the large carrying value associated with our goodwill and intangible assets, any write-down of these assets may result in a significant charge to our condensed consolidated statement of operations in the period any impairment is determined and could cause our stock price to decline. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, WHICH COULD IMPOSE UNANTICIPATED REQUIREMENTS ON OUR BUSINESS IN THE FUTURE. ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CURRENT OR FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY SUBJECT US TO LIABILITY OR SUSPENSION OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor operations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect on our operations from environmental regulations, any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement may impose the need for additional capital equipment or other requirements. If for any reason we fail to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could be subject to substantial liability or our manufacturing operations could be suspended. 23 Table of Contents We also could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. We record a liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. The European Union (“EU”) has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for the individual member states of the EU to enact the directive in their respective countries was August 13, 2004 (such legislation, together with the directive, the “WEEE Legislation”). Producers participating in the market became financially responsible for implementing these responsibilities beginning in August 2005. Our potential liability resulting from the WEEE Legislation may be substantial. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. WE DEPEND ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL, AND THE LOSS OF ANY KEY PERSONNEL MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and in the development of new products and processes. The competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees, none of whom is subject to an employment agreement for a specified term or a post-employment non-competition agreement, could harm our business. BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, business interruption insurance may not be enough to compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. SYSTEM INTEGRATION DISRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We periodically make enhancements to our integrated financial and supply chain management systems. This process is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Operational disruptions during the course of this process or delays in the implementation of these enhancements could impact our operations. Our ability to forecast sales demand, ship products, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired while we are making these enhancements. PROVISIONS IN OUR RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION, BYLAWS AND PREFERRED SHARES RIGHTS AGREEMENT MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5 million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, voting rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions of those shares without the approval of our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, by making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. We also have a preferred shares rights agreement with Equiserve Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, dated as of September 4, 1996, amended and restated on October 18, 1999 and amended as of November 7, 2001 and November 10, 2008, which gives our stockholders certain rights that would likely delay, defer or prevent a change of control of Atmel in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. 24 Table of Contents OUR FOREIGN PENSION PLANS ARE UNFUNDED, AND ANY REQUIREMENT TO FUND THESE PLANS IN THE FUTURE COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR CASH POSITION AND OPERATING CAPITAL. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all our French and German employees. Plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. Benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. Pension benefits payable totaled $27 million and $53 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The plans are non-funded, in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans. Benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. Cash funding for benefits paid in 2008 was approximately $1 million, and we expect to pay approximately $1 million in 2009. Should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively impact our cash position and operating capital. OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY MAY RESULT IN UNANTICIPATED ACCOUNTING CHARGES OR OTHERWISE ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND RESULT IN DIFFICULTIES IN ASSIMILATING AND INTEGRATING THE OPERATIONS, PERSONNEL, TECHNOLOGIES, PRODUCTS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS OF ACQUIRED COMPANIES OR BUSINESSES, OR BE DILUTIVE TO EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS. A key element of our business strategy includes expansion through the acquisitions of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our skilled engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2008, we acquired four companies and certain assets of three other businesses. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets, including tangible and intangible assets such as intellectual property. For example, on March 6, 2008, we completed the purchase of Quantum, a developer of capacitive sensing IP and solutions for user interfaces. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Beginning January 1, 2009, we will be required to adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No, 141(R), “Business Combinations.” (“SFAS No. 141(R)”). We expect that SFAS No. 141(R) will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements when effective, but the nature and magnitude of the specific effects will depend upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions we consummate after the effective date. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. 25 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time that circumstances arise indicating the carrying value may not be recoverable. At December 31, 2008, we had $51 million of goodwill. We completed our annual test of goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of 2008 and concluded that we did not have any impairment at that time. However, if we continue to see deterioration in the global economy and the current market conditions in the semiconductor industry worsen, the carrying amount of our goodwill may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record a material impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY UTILIZE ALL OF OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. The manufacture and assembly of semiconductor devices requires significant fixed investment in manufacturing facilities, specialized equipment, and a skilled workforce. If we are unable to fully utilize our own fabrication facilities due to decreased demand, significant shift in product mix, obsolescence of the manufacturing equipment installed, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, or other reasons, our operating results will suffer. Our inability to produce at anticipated output levels could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders or customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at production levels below optimal capacity. Lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins. During 2007, we lowered production levels significantly at our North Tyneside, United Kingdom manufacturing facility to avoid building more inventory than we were forecasting orders for. As a result, operating costs for these periods were higher than in prior periods negatively impacting gross margins. We closed our North Tyneside manufacturing facility in the first quarter of 2008. In addition, other Atmel manufacturing facilities could experience similar conditions requiring production levels to be reduced below optimal capacity levels. If we are unable to operate our manufacturing facilities at optimal production levels, our operating costs will increase and gross margin and results from operations will be negatively impacted. DISRUPTIONS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS CAN DISRUPT OUR ABILITY TO SUPPLY PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. The manufacture of semiconductor devices requires specialized raw materials, primarily certain types of silicon wafers. We generally utilize more than one source to acquire these wafers, but there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers capable of producing these wafers in the market. The raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders. Any significant interruption of the supply of raw materials could harm our business. WE COULD FACE PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS THAT RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT COSTS AND DAMAGE TO REPUTATION WITH CUSTOMERS, WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. All of our products are sold with a limited warranty. However, we could incur costs not covered by our warranties, including additional labor costs, costs for replacing defective parts, reimbursement to customers for damages incurred in correcting their defective products, costs for product recalls or other damages. These costs could be disproportionately higher than the revenue and profits we receive from the sales of these devices. 26 Table of Contents Our products have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, manufacturing defects, software or firmware bugs, or other similar defects. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. We have implemented significant quality control measures to mitigate this risk; however, it is possible that products shipped to our customers will contain defects or bugs. In addition, these problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional costs or delay shipments for revenue which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. THE OUTCOME OF CURRENTLY ONGOING AND FUTURE AUDITS OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS, BOTH IN THE U.S. AND IN FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR NET (LOSS) INCOME AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other foreign/domestic tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. While we believe that the resolution of these audits will not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position, the outcome is subject to significant uncertainties. If we are unable to obtain agreements with the tax authority on the various proposed adjustments, there could be an adverse material impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPLY WITH ECONOMIC INCENTIVE TERMS IN CERTAIN GOVERNMENT GRANTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RECEIVE OR RECOGNIZE GRANT BENEFITS OR WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REPAY GRANT BENEFITS PREVIOUSLY PAID TO US AND RECOGNIZE RELATED CHARGES, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL POSITION. We receive economic incentive grants and allowances from European governments targeted at increasing employment at specific locations. The subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits. Noncompliance with the conditions of the grants could result in the forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. For example, in the three months ended March 31, 2008, we repaid $40 million of government grants as a result of closing our North Tyneside manufacturing facility. In addition, we may need to record charges to reverse grant benefits recorded in prior periods as a result of changes to our plans for headcount, project spending, or capital investment relative to target levels agreed with government agencies at any of these specific locations. If we are unable to comply with any of the covenants in the grant agreements, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. CURRENT AND FUTURE LITIGATION AGAINST US COULD BE COSTLY AND TIME CONSUMING TO DEFEND. We are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For example, in October 2008, officials of the EU Commission (the “Commission”) conducted an inspection at the offices of one of our French subsidiaries. We have been informed that the Commission was seeking evidence of potential violations by us or our subsidiaries of the EU’s competition laws in connection with the Commission’s investigation of suppliers of integrated circuits for smart cards. We are cooperating with the Commission’s investigation and have not received any specific findings, monetary demand or judgment through the date of filing. We are not aware of any evidence identified as of the date of filing that would cause management to conclude that there has been a probable violation of the relevant articles of the EC Treaty or EEA Agreement resulting from the 27 Table of Contents acts of any of the current or prior employees of ours. As a result, we have not recorded any provision in our financial statements related to this matter. We are currently under investigation and a determination by the Commission that we or our subsidiaries have infringed the EU’s competition laws could lead to the imposition of significant fines and penalties that could have a material effect on our financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 