ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may affect the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could also affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. 11 Table of Contents OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN VOLATILITY OR A DECLINE IN OUR STOCK PRICE. Our future operating results will be subject to quarterly variations based upon a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. In addition to the other factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that could affect our operating results include: • the success of end products marketed by our customers and our ability to effectively reduce the prices for the products we sell into those end products; • the cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets addressed by our products; • our transition to a fab-lite strategy; • our dependence on selling through distributors; • our increased dependence on independent foundries and their ability to meet our volume, quality and delivery objectives; • compliance with U.S. and international antitrust, trade and export laws and regulations by us and our distributors; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and revenues and costs denominated in foreign currencies, which can adversely affect our operating margins; • ability of independent assembly contractors to meet our volume, quality and delivery objectives; • success with disposal or restructuring activities; • implementation of new manufacturing technologies and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • third party intellectual property infringement claims; • the highly competitive nature of our markets and our ability to keep pace with technological change; • our dependence on international sales and operations; • natural disasters, terrorist acts or similar unforeseen events or circumstances; • assessment of internal controls over financial reporting; • our ability to maintain good relationships, and our contract terms with our customers and suppliers; • our compliance with international, federal and state environmental regulations; • personnel changes; • accounting for our performance-based restricted stock units; • anti-takeover effects in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • the unfunded nature of our foreign pension plans and that any requirement to fund these plans could negatively impact our cash position; • acquisitions we may undertake and the effects on those acquisitions on our operations and financial performance; • utilization of our manufacturing capacity; • disruptions in the availability of raw materials which could impact our ability to supply products to our customers; • product liability claims that may arise, which could result in significant costs and damage to our reputation; • audits of our income tax returns, both in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions; 12 Table of Contents • global economic and political conditions, especially in light of the recent global economic recession that continues to affect countries throughout the world; and • costs associated with, and the outcome of, any litigation to which we are, or may become, a party; Any unfavorable changes in any of these factors could harm our operating results and may result in volatility or a decline in our stock price. In addition, from time to time, our annual revenues and operating results can become increasingly dependent upon orders booked and shipped within a given quarter and, accordingly, our annual results can become less predictable and subject to greater variability. WE DEPEND SUBSTANTIALLY ON THE SUCCESS OF OUR CUSTOMERS’ END PRODUCTS, OUR NEW PRODUCTS AND ON OUR ABILITY TO REDUCE THE AVERAGE SELLING PRICE OF OUR PRODUCTS OVER TIME. We believe that our future sales will depend substantially on the success of our customers’ end products, our new products and our ability to reduce the average selling price of our products over time. Our new products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products or systems at their design stage. However, so-called design wins can precede volume sales by a year or more. We may not be successful in achieving design wins or design wins may not result in future revenues, which depend in large part on our customer’s ability to sell their end products or systems within the market. Rapid innovation within the semiconductor industry also continually increases pricing pressure, especially on products containing older technology. We experience that pricing pressure, just as many of our competitors do. Product life cycles are relatively short, and as a result, products tend to be replaced by more technologically advanced substitutes on a regular basis. In turn, demand for older technology falls, causing the price at which such products can be sold to drop, often quickly. As a result, the average selling price of each of our products usually declines as individual products mature and competitors enter the market. To offset average selling price decreases and to continue profitably supplying our products, we rely primarily on reducing costs to manufacture our products, improving our process technologies and production efficiency, increasing product sales to absorb fixed costs and introducing new, higher priced products that incorporate advanced features or integrated technologies to address new or emerging markets. Our operating results could be harmed if such cost reductions, production improvements, increased product sales and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner. THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY CREATES FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical, characterized by annual seasonality and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor industry has also experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. Global semiconductor sales decreased 3% to $249 billion in 2008 and 9% to $226 billion in 2009. Global semiconductor sales increased 32% to $298 billion in 2010 from 2009. Our operating results have been adversely affected in the past by industry-wide fluctuations in the demand for semiconductors, which resulted in under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity and declining gross margins. In the past, we have recorded significant charges to recognize impairment in the value of our manufacturing equipment, the cost to reduce our workforce, and other restructuring costs. Our business may be harmed in the future by cyclical conditions in the semiconductor industry as a whole and also by any slower growth in any of the specific markets served by our products. A significant portion of our revenue comes from sales to customers supplying consumer markets and from international sales. As a result, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in particular quarters of our fiscal year. The semiconductor industry has also been affected by significant shifts in consumer demand due to economic downturns or other factors, which can exacerbate the cyclicality within the industry and result in further diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have, in the past, experienced substantial quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and operating results and expect, in the future, to continue to experience short term period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry and economic conditions. 13 Table of Contents WE COULD EXPERIENCE DISRUPTION OF OUR BUSINESS AS WE TRANSITION TO A FAB-LITE STRATEGY AND INCREASE DEPENDENCE ON INDEPENDENT FOUNDRIES, BECAUSE THOSE FOUNDRIES MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS AND MAY NOT MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY OBJECTIVES OR MAY ABANDON FABRICATION PROCESSES THAT WE REQUIRE. As part of our fab-lite strategy, we have reduced the number of manufacturing facilities we own. In May 2008, we completed the sale of our North Tyneside, United Kingdom wafer fabrication facility. In December 2008, we sold our wafer fabrication operation in Heilbronn, Germany, and in June 2010, we sold our Rousset, France manufacturing operations. As a result, we currently operate only one manufacturing facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado and we increasingly rely on independent third-party foundry manufacturing partners to manufacture certain products. As part of this transition, we have expanded and will continue to expand our foundry relationships by entering into new agreements with third-party foundries. If these agreements are not completed on a timely basis, or the transfer of production is delayed for other reasons, the supply of certain products could be disrupted, which could harm our business. In addition, difficulties in production yields can often occur when transitioning to a new third-party foundry. If our foundries fail to deliver quality products and components on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we manufactured approximately 68% of our products in our own wafer fabrication facilities compared to 88% for the year ended December 31, 2009. We expect over time that an ever increasing portion of our wafer fabrication, especially as we seek to expand capacity, will be undertaken by third party foundries. Implementation of our fab-lite strategy exposes us to the following risks: • reduced control over delivery schedules and product costs; • manufacturing costs that are higher than anticipated; • inability of our manufacturing subcontractors to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote adequate capacity to produce our products; • possible abandonment of key fabrication processes by our foundry subcontractors for products that are strategically important to us; • decline in product quality and reliability; • inability to maintain continuing relationships with our foundries; • restricted ability to meet customer demand when faced with product shortages; and • increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. If any of the above risks occur, we could experience an interruption in our supply chain or an increase in costs, which could delay or decrease our revenue and adversely affect our business. We hope to mitigate these risks with a strategy of qualifying multiple foundry subcontractors. However, there can be no guarantee that any strategy will eliminate these risks. Additionally, since most independent foundries are located in foreign countries, we are subject to risks generally associated with contracting with foreign manufacturers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates and import and export regulations. Accordingly, we may experience problems maintaining expected timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The terms in which we will be able to obtain wafer production for our products, and the timing and volume of such production will be substantially dependent on future agreements to be negotiated with independent foundries. We cannot be certain that the agreements we reach with such foundries will be on terms reasonable to us. For example, any future agreements with independent foundries may have short terms, may not be renewable, and may provide inadequate certainty regarding the supply and pricing of wafers for our products. If demand for our product increases significantly, we may not be able to guarantee that our third party foundries will be able to increase their manufacturing capacity to a level that meets our requirements, thereby preventing us 14 Table of Contents from meeting our customer demand and potentially harming our business and customer relationships. Also, even if our independent foundries are able to meet our increased demand, those foundries may decide to charge significantly higher wafer prices to us. That could reduce our gross margins or require us to offset the increased prices by increasing corresponding prices to our customers, either of which could harm our business and operating results. OUR REVENUES ARE DEPENDENT TO A LARGE EXTENT ON SELLING THROUGH THIRD PARTY DISTRIBUTORS. Sales through distributors accounted for 57%, 55% and 48% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We are dependent on our distributors to supplement our direct marketing and sales efforts. Our agreements with third-party distributors can generally be terminated for convenience by either party upon relatively short notice. These agreements are non-exclusive and also permit our distributors to offer our competitors’ products. If any significant distributor or a substantial number of our distributors terminated their relationship with us, decided to market our competitors’ products in preference to our products, were unable to sell our products or were unable to pay us for products sold for any reason, our ability to bring our products to market could be adversely affected, we could have difficulty in collecting outstanding receivable balances, or we could incur other charges or adjustments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. For example, in the three months ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a one time bad-debt charge of $12 million related to outstanding invoices after one of our Asian distributors appeared on the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List. OUR REVENUE REPORTING IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON RECEIVING ACCURATE SELL-THROUGH INFORMATION FROM OUR DISTRIBUTORS. IF WE RECEIVE INACCURATE OR LATE INFORMATION FROM OUR DISTRIBUTORS, OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING COULD BE MISSTATED. Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on receiving pertinent, accurate and timely data from our distributors. As our distributors resell products, they provide us with periodic data regarding the products sold, including prices, quantities, end customers, and the amount of our products they still have in stock. Because the data set is large and complex and because there may be errors in the reported data, we must use estimates and apply judgments to reconcile distributors’ reported inventories to their activities. Actual results could vary unfavorably from our estimates, which could affect our operating results and could adversely affect our business. IN SOME CASES, WE PROVIDE PRICE PROTECTION TO OUR DISTRIBUTORS ON THE INVENTORY THEY CARRY. SIGNIFICANT DECLINES IN THE VALUE OF THAT INVENTORY, OR OTHER PRICE DECLINES IN OUR PRODUCTS, MAY REQUIRE US TO UNDERTAKE INVENTORY WRITE-DOWNS OR OTHER EXPENSES TO REIMBURSE OUR DISTRIBUTORS FOR THOSE CHANGES IN VALUE. Distributors typically maintain an inventory of our products. For certain distributors, we have signed agreements that protect the value of their inventory of our products against price reductions, as well as provide for rights of return under specific conditions. Certain agreements with our distributors also contain standard stock rotation provisions permitting limited levels of product returns. We defer the gross margins on our sales to these distributors until the applicable products are re-sold by the distributors and reported to us. However, in the event of an unexpected significant decline in the price of our products or significant return of unsold inventory, we may experience inventory write-downs, charges to reimburse costs incurred by distributors, or other charges or adjustments, any of which could result in a material adverse impact to our revenues and operating results. 15 Table of Contents WE BUILD SEMICONDUCTORS BASED, FOR THE MOST PART, ON NON-BINDING FORECASTS FROM OUR CUSTOMERS. AS A RESULT, CHANGES TO FORECASTS FROM ACTUAL DEMAND MAY RESULT IN EXCESS INVENTORY OR OUR INABILITY TO FILL CUSTOMER ORDERS ON A TIMELY BASIS, WHICH MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. We schedule production and build semiconductor devices based primarily on non-binding forecasts from customers and our own internal forecasts. Typically, customer orders, consistent with general industry practices, may be cancelled or rescheduled with short notice to us. In addition, our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery in a much shorter period than our lead time to fully fabricate and test devices. Because the markets we serve are volatile and subject to rapid technological, price and end user demand changes, our forecasts of unit quantities to build may be significantly incorrect. Changes to forecasted demand from actual demand may result in us producing unit quantities in excess of orders from customers, which could result in the need to record additional expense for the write-down of inventory and negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations. Our forecasting risks may increase as we transition to a fab-lite strategy because we will have less control over modifying production schedules to match changes in forecasted demand. If we commit to obtaining foundry wafers and cannot cancel or reschedule commitments without material costs or cancellation penalties, we may be forced to purchase inventory in excess of demand, which could result in a write-down of inventories and negatively affect our gross margins and results of operations. Conversely, failure to produce or obtain sufficient wafers for increased demand could cause us to miss revenue opportunities and could affect our customers’ ability to sell products, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2010, shipments of our ASIC and memory products were unfavorably affected by limited production capacity, as we allocated wafers to microcontroller customers in an effort to meet significantly increased demand for those products during 2010. In order to support our ASIC and memory customers in 2011, we have increased orders for wafers from independent foundries. OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX LAWS RELATING TO TRADE, EXPORT CONTROLS, FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES AND ANTI-BRIBERY LAWS AMONG MANY OTHERS, AND A VIOLATION OF, OR CHANGE IN, THESE LAWS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. For hardware, software or technology exported from, or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of, the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). Hardware, software and technology exported from other countries may also be subject to local laws and regulations governing international trade. Under these laws and regulations, we are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses and approvals for exports of hardware, software and technology, as well as the provision of technical assistance. We are also required to obtain all necessary export licenses prior to transferring technical data or software to foreign persons. In addition, we are required to obtain necessary export licenses prior to the export or re-export of hardware, software and technology to any person identified on the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Persons or Entity List, the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons List or the Department of State’s Debarred List. Products for use in nuclear, chemical/biological weapons, rocket systems or unmanned air vehicle applications also require similar export licenses. We are enhancing our export compliance program, including analyzing product shipments and technology transfers. We are also working with U.S. government officials to ensure compliance with applicable U.S. export laws and regulations and developing additional operational procedures. However, export laws and regulations are 16 Table of Contents highly complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and a determination by U.S. or local governments that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export control laws or trade sanctions, including failure to properly restrict an export to the persons or countries set forth on government restricted party lists, could result in significant civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, loss of revenues from certain customers and exclusion from participation in U.S. government contracts. Further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors, foundries or other third parties. We have, in the past, previously experienced a situation in which one of our distributors was added to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List, resulting in our terminating our relationship with that distributor. Any one or more of these sanctions or a change in law or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to complex laws that seek to regulate the payment of bribes or other forms of compensation to foreign officials or persons affiliated with companies or organizations in which foreign governments may own an interest or exercise control. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States requires United States companies to comply with an extensive legal framework to prevent bribery of foreign officials. The laws are complex and require that we closely monitor local practices of our overseas offices. The United States Department of Justice has recently heightened enforcement of these laws. In addition, other countries continue to implement similar laws that may have extra-territorial effect. The United Kingdom, where we have operations, has recently adopted, but not yet implemented, the U.K. Bribery Act that could impose significant oversight obligations on us and could have application to our operations outside of the United Kingdom. The costs for complying with these and similar laws may be significant and could reasonably be expected to require significant management time and focus. Any violation of these or similar laws, intentional or unintentional, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS, AND REVENUES AND COSTS DENOMINATED IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AS A RESULT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY MOVES AGAINST THE DOLLAR. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Our primary exposure relates to operating expenses in Europe. When we take an order denominated in a foreign currency we will receive fewer dollars than we initially anticipated if that local currency weakens against the dollar before we ship our product. This would reduce our revenue. Conversely, revenues will be positively impacted if the local currency strengthens against the dollar. For example, in Europe, where we have costs denominated in European currencies, costs will decrease if the local currency weakens. Conversely, all costs will increase if the local currency strengthens against the dollar. The net effect of average exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the average exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulted in a decrease in income from operations of $12 million. This impact is determined assuming that all foreign currency denominated transactions that occurred for the year ended December 31, 2010 were recorded using the average foreign currency exchange rates in the same period in 2009. We also face the risk that our accounts receivables denominated in foreign currencies will be devalued if such foreign currencies weaken quickly and significantly against the dollar. Similarly, we face the risk that our accounts payable and debt obligations denominated in foreign currencies will increase if such foreign currencies strengthen quickly and significantly against the dollar. We have not historically sought to hedge our foreign currency exposure, although we may determine to do so in the future. 17 Table of Contents WE DEPEND ON INDEPENDENT ASSEMBLY CONTRACTORS WHICH MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS AND WHICH MAY NOT MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY OBJECTIVES. After wafer testing, we ship the wafers to one of our independent assembly contractors located in China, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan or Thailand where the wafers are separated into die, packaged and, in some cases, further tested. Our reliance on independent contractors to assemble, package and test our products may expose us to significant risks, including the following: • reduced control over quality and delivery schedules; • the potential lack of adequate capacity; • discontinuance or phase-out of our contractors’ assembly processes; • inability of our contractors to develop and maintain assembly and test methods and equipment that are appropriate for our products; • lack of long-term contracts and the potential inability to secure strategically important service contracts on favorable terms, if at all; and • increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition, our independent contractors may not continue to assemble, package and test our products for a variety of reasons. Moreover, because our independent contractors are located in foreign countries, we are subject to certain risks generally associated with contracting with foreign suppliers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, including export controls, and changes in tariff and freight rates. Accordingly, we may experience problems in timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. WE MAY FACE BUSINESS DISRUPTION RISKS, AS WELL AS THE RISK OF SIGNIFICANT UNANTICIPATED COSTS, AS WE CONSIDER CHANGES IN OUR BUSINESS AND ASSET PORTFOLIO. We are continually reviewing potential changes in our business and asset portfolio throughout our worldwide operations, including those located in Europe, in order to enhance our overall competitiveness and viability. Disposal and restructuring activities that we have taken, and may take in the future, can divert significant time and resources, can involve substantial costs and lead to production and product development delays and may fail to enhance our overall competitiveness and viability as intended, any of which can negatively impact our business. Since 2008, we have sold three manufacturing facilities and completed one other significant asset sale. We have in the past and may, in the future, experience labor union or workers council objections, or labor unrest actions (including possible strikes), when we seek to reduce our manufacturing or operating facilities in Europe and other regions. Many of our operations are located in countries and regions that have extensive employment regulations that we must comply with in order to reduce our workforce, and we may incur significant costs to complete such exercises. Any of those events could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We continue to evaluate the existing restructuring accruals related to restructuring plans previously implemented. As a result, there may be additional restructuring charges or reversals or recoveries of previous charges. However, we may incur additional restructuring and asset impairment charges in connection with additional restructuring plans adopted in the future. Any such restructuring or asset impairment charges recorded in the future could significantly harm our business and operating results. 18 Table of Contents OUR PERIODIC DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES HAVE IN THE PAST AND MAY, IN THE FUTURE, TRIGGER IMPAIRMENT CHARGES AND/OR RESULT IN A LOSS ON SALE OF ASSETS. Our disposal activities have in the past and may, in the future, trigger restructuring, impairment and other accounting charges and/or result in a loss on sale of assets. Any of these charges or losses could cause the price of our common stock to decline. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we announced that we entered into an exclusivity agreement with LFoundry GmbH for the purchase of our manufacturing operations in Rousset, France. As a result of this agreement, we determined that certain assets and liabilities were no longer included in the disposal group as they were not being acquired or assumed by the buyer, and as result, we reclassified these assets and liabilities back to held and used as of December 31, 2009 and recorded an asset impairment charge of $80 million. In determining any potential write down of these assets and liabilities, we considered both the net book value of the disposal group, which was $83 million, and the related credit balance of $129 million for foreign currency translation adjustments (“CTA balance”) that is recorded within stockholders’ equity. As a result, no impairment charge was recorded for the disposal group as its carrying value, net of the CTA balance, could not be reduced to below zero. In the three months ended June 30, 2010, the CTA balance remaining in stockholders’ equity of $97 million was released. In the three months ended June 30, 2010, we recorded an additional $12 million asset impairment charge. TO OBTAIN CAPACITY, WE MAY SOMETIMES ENTER INTO “TAKE-OR-PAY” AGREEMENTS WITH WAFER MANUFACTURERS. IF THE PRICING FOR THOSE WAFERS EXCEEDS THE PRICES WE COULD HAVE OTHERWISE OBTAINED IN THE OPEN MARKET, WE MAY INCUR A CHARGE TO OUR OPERATING RESULTS. In connection with the sale of our manufacturing operations in Rousset, France in June 2010, we entered into a manufacturing services agreement pursuant to which we will purchase wafers from LFoundry until 2014 on a “take-or-pay” basis. If the purchase price of the wafers under that type of agreement is higher than the fair value of the wafers at the time of purchase, based on the pricing we could have obtained from third-party foundries, we would be required to take a charge to our financial statements to reflect the above market price we have agreed to pay. In 2010, we recorded a charge of $92 million for the three months ended June 30, 2010 to reflect above market wafer prices that we were required to pay under our LFoundry agreement. Similarly, in connection with the sale of our manufacturing operations in Heilbronn, Germany in December 2008, we entered into a wafer supply agreement pursuant to which we will purchase wafers from Telefunken Semiconductors GmbH & Co. KG (“TSG”). Under the supply agreement, we purchase wafers at cost in Euros, which represents their fair value at the time of purchase. This commitment is equivalent to approximately 22 million Euros as of December 31, 2010. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO IMPLEMENT NEW MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGIES OR FAIL TO ACHIEVE ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURING YIELDS, OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE HARMED. Whether demand for semiconductors is rising or falling, we are constantly required by competitive pressures in the industry to successfully implement new manufacturing technologies in order to reduce the geometries of our semiconductors and produce more integrated circuits per wafer. We are developing processes that support effective feature sizes as small as 0.13-microns, and we are studying how to implement advanced manufacturing processes with even smaller feature sizes such as 0.065-microns. Fabrication of our integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. Whether through the use of our foundries or third-party manufacturers, we may experience problems in achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of wafers, particularly during a transition in the manufacturing process technology for our products. We have previously experienced production delays and yield difficulties in connection with earlier expansions of our wafer fabrication capacity or transitions in manufacturing process technology. Production delays or 19 Table of Contents difficulties in achieving acceptable yields at any of our fabrication facilities or at the fabrication facilities of our third-party manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to obtain the additional cash from operations or external financing necessary to fund the implementation of new manufacturing technologies. WE MAY FACE THIRD PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS THAT COULD BE COSTLY TO DEFEND AND RESULT IN LOSS OF SIGNIFICANT RIGHTS. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of IP rights or positions, which have on occasion resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. From time to time we receive communications from third parties asserting patent or other IP rights covering our products or processes. In order to avoid the significant costs associated with our defense in litigation involving such claims, we may license the use of the technologies that are the subject of these claims from such companies and make regular corresponding royalty payments, which may harm our operating results. We have in the past been involved in intellectual property infringement lawsuits, which adversely affected our operating results. It is possible that we will be involved in other intellectual property infringement lawsuits in the future. The cost of defending against such lawsuits, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, can be substantial. If such infringement lawsuits are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies at issue in the lawsuits, and if we are unable to obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology or design new technology to avoid infringement, our business and operating results may be significantly harmed. Many of our new and existing products and technologies are intended to address needs in specialized and emerging markets. Given the aggressive pursuit and defense of intellectual property rights that is typical in the semiconductor industry, we expect to see an increase in intellectual property litigation in many of the key markets that our products and technologies serve in the future. An increase in infringement lawsuits within these markets generally, even if they do not involve us, may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, our standard contracts provide remedies to our customers, such as defense, settlement, or payment of judgments for intellectual property claims related to the use of our products. From time to time, we will indemnify customers against combinations of loss, expense, or liability related to the sale and the use of our products and services. Even if claims or litigation against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees to defend. OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY SUFFER PRICE REDUCTIONS, REDUCED REVENUES, REDUCED GROSS MARGINS AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. We operate in markets that are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price decline. Throughout our product line, we compete with a number of large semiconductor manufacturers, such as Cypress, Freescale, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Infineon, Intel, Microchip, NXP Semiconductors, ON Semiconductor, Renesas, Samsung, Spansion, STMicroelectronics, Synaptics and Texas Instruments. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and management resources than we do. As we introduce new products we are increasingly competing directly with these companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell products in specialized markets that our products address. We compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our products, including their speed, density, power usage, reliability and specialty packaging alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. During the last several years, we have experienced significant price competition in several business segments, especially in our nonvolatile memory segment for EPROM, Serial EEPROM and Flash memory products, as well as in our commodity microcontrollers. We expect continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors, new entrants, new technology and 20 Table of Contents cyclical demand, among other factors; will likely maintain the recent trend of declining average selling prices for our products. In addition to the factors described above, our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the following: • our success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies and processes; • our ability to offer integrated solutions using our advanced nonvolatile memory process with other technologies; • the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their systems; • product introductions by our competitors; • the number and nature of our competitors in a given market; • our ability to minimize production costs by outsourcing our manufacturing, assembly and testing functions; and • general market and economic conditions. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and may cause us to be unable to compete successfully in the future, which would materially harm our business. WE MUST KEEP PACE WITH TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products which compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. We are continually designing and commercializing new and improved products to maintain our competitive position. These new products typically are more technologically complex than their predecessors, and thus have increased potential for delays in their introduction. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including timely completion and introduction of new product designs, achievement of acceptable fabrication yields and market acceptance. Our development of new products and our customers’ decisions to design them into their systems can take as long as three years, depending upon the complexity of the device and the application. Accordingly, new product development requires a long-term forecast of market trends and customer needs, and the successful introduction of our products may be adversely affected by competing products or by technologies serving the markets addressed by our products. Our qualification process involves multiple cycles of testing and improving a product’s functionality to ensure that our products operate in accordance with design specifications. If we experience delays in the introduction of new products, our future operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, new product introductions frequently depend on our development and implementation of new process technologies, and our future growth will depend in part upon the successful development and market acceptance of these process technologies. Our integrated solution products require more technically sophisticated sales and marketing personnel to market these products successfully to customers. We are developing new products with smaller feature sizes, the fabrication of which will be substantially more complex than fabrication of our current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our operating results will be harmed. Our new product development, process development or marketing and sales efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve market acceptance and price expectations for our new products may not be achieved, any of which could significantly harm our business. OUR OPERATING RESULTS ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO VARIOUS RISKS. Net revenues outside the United States accounted for 84%, 83% and 86% of our net revenues in years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect that revenues derived from international sales will 21 Table of Contents continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues. International sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: • greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property; • reduced flexibility and increased cost of staffing adjustments; • longer collection cycles; • legal and regulatory requirements, including antitrust laws, import and export regulations, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws, and environmental and privacy regulations and changes to those laws and regulations; and • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. Some of our distributors, independent foundries, independent assembly, packaging and test contractors and other business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to manage the risks of international operations successfully, our business may be adversely affected if our distributors, independent foundries and contractors and other business partners are not able to manage these risks successfully. OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE HARMED BY BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS, NATURAL DISASTERS, TERRORIST ACTS OR OTHER EVENTS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, volcanoes, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. We do not have a comprehensive disaster recovery plan. In addition, business interruption insurance may not be enough to compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. In recent years, based on insurance market conditions, we have relied to a greater degree on self-insurance. For example, we now self-insure property losses up to $10 million per event. Our headquarters, some of our manufacturing facilities, the manufacturing facilities of third party foundries and some of our major suppliers’ and customers’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults and in potential terrorist target areas. If a major earthquake, other disaster or a terrorist act affects us and insurance coverage is unavailable for any reason, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment, we may suffer a temporary halt in our ability to manufacture and transport products and we could suffer damages that could materially adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A LACK OF EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING COULD RESULT IN AN INABILITY TO ACCURATELY REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS, WHICH COULD LEAD TO A LOSS OF INVESTOR CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTS AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal controls. Evaluations of the effectiveness of our internal controls in the future may lead our management to determine that internal control over financial reporting is no longer effective. Such conclusions may result from our failure to implement controls for changes in our business or from deterioration in the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including a failure to implement effective new controls to address changes to our business, could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Any material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, any material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, could subject us to significant civil or 22 Table of Contents criminal actions and increased U.S. regulatory focus, all of which would divert management’s time and our resources and could harm our business and reputation. PROBLEMS THAT WE EXPERIENCE WITH KEY CUSTOMERS MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to maintain close, satisfactory relationships with large customers is important to our business. A reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from our large customers would harm our business. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or reduced orders by any of our key customers, could harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, our customers may vary order levels significantly from period to period, and customers may not continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. Our business is organized into four operating segments (see Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). The principal customers in each of our markets are described in “Business — Principal Markets and Customers.” WE ARE NOT PROTECTED BY LONG-TERM SUPPLY CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS. We do not typically enter into long-term supply contracts with our customers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of an early termination by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we will be able to rapidly replace that revenue source, which would harm our financial results. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS, WHICH COULD IMPOSE UNANTICIPATED REQUIREMENTS ON OUR BUSINESS IN THE FUTURE. ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CURRENT OR FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY SUBJECT US TO LIABILITY OR SUSPENSION OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. We could incur significant costs as a result of any failure by us to comply with, or any liability we may incur under, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the limitation or suspension of production, monetary fines or civil or criminal sanctions, clean-up costs or other future liabilities in excess of our reserves. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the recycling of our products, the materials that may be included in our products, and our obligation to dispose of our products at the end of their useful life. For example, the European Directive 2002/95/Ec on restriction of hazardous substances (RoHS Directive) bans the placing on the European Union market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing more than specified levels of lead and other hazardous compounds. As more countries enact requirements like the RoHS Directive, and as exemptions are phased out, we could incur substantial additional costs to convert the remainder of our portfolio, conduct required research and development, alter manufacturing processes, or adjust supply chain management. Such changes could also result in significant inventory obsolescence. In addition, compliance with environmental, health and safety requirements could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly pollution control equipment, incur other significant expenses or modify our manufacturing processes. We also are subject to cleanup obligations at properties that we currently own or at facilities that we may have owned in the past or at which we conducted operations. In the event of the discovery of new or previously unknown contamination, additional requirements with respect to existing contamination, or the imposition of other cleanup obligations at these or other sites for which we are responsible, we may be required to take remedial or other measures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE DEPEND ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL, AND THE LOSS OF ANY KEY PERSONNEL MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and in the development of new products and processes. The competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees, none of whom 23 Table of Contents is subject to an employment agreement for a specified term or a post-employment non-competition agreement, could harm our business. ACCOUNTING FOR OUR PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS IS SUBJECT TO JUDGMENT AND MAY LEAD TO UNPREDICTABLE EXPENSE RECOGNITION. We have issued performance-based restricted stock units to eligible employees, entitling those employees to a maximum of approximately ten million shares of our common stock under our 2005 Stock Plan, if specified performance criteria are met. We recognize the stock-based compensation expense for performance-based restricted stock units when we believe it is probable that we will achieve the specified performance criteria. If achieved, the award vests. If the performance goals are not met, no compensation expense is recognized and any previously recognized compensation expense is reversed. The expected cost of each award is reflected over the performance period and is reduced for estimated forfeitures. We are required to reassess this probability at each reporting date, and any change in our forecasts may result in an increase or decrease to the expense recognized. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based restricted stock units of $25 million, $1 million and $2 million, respectively, as we believe that it is probable that the performance criteria will be achieved and that the performance shares granted will vest during the performance period. If we are incorrect in those assumptions, we could be required to reverse those expenses in our consolidated financial statements of operations. SYSTEM INTEGRATION DISRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We periodically make enhancements to our integrated financial and supply chain management systems. The enhancement process is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Operational disruptions during the course of such processes or delays in the implementation of such enhancements could impact our operations. Our ability to forecast sales demand, ship products, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired while we are making these enhancements. PROVISIONS IN OUR RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, voting rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions of those shares without the approval of our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, by making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. OUR FOREIGN PENSION PLANS ARE UNFUNDED, AND ANY REQUIREMENT TO FUND THESE PLANS IN THE FUTURE COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR CASH POSITION AND OPERATING CAPITAL. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our French and German employees. Plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. Benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. Pension benefits payable totaled $27 million at December 31, 2010 and $29 million at December 31, 2009. The plans are non-funded, in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans. Benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. We expect to pay approximately $0.4 million in 2011 for benefits earned. Should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. 24 Table of Contents FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAY RESULT IN UNANTICIPATED ACCOUNTING CHARGES OR OTHERWISE ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND RESULT IN DIFFICULTIES IN ASSIMILATING AND INTEGRATING THE OPERATIONS, PERSONNEL, TECHNOLOGIES, PRODUCTS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS OF ACQUIRED COMPANIES OR BUSINESSES, OR BE DILUTIVE TO EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS. A key element of our business strategy includes expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our skilled engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. Between January 1, 1999 and December 31, 2010, we acquired four companies and assets of five other businesses. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets, including tangible and intangible assets such as intellectual property. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience, delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies and product development through volume production, unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to the accounting standard on business combinations. The accounting standard will have an impact on our consolidated financial statements, depending upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions we consummate in the future. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from any of our historic or future acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. We are required under U.S. GAAP to test goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time that circumstances arise indicating the carrying value may not be recoverable. At December 31, 2010, we had $55 million of goodwill. We completed our annual test of goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of 2010 and concluded that we did not have any impairment at that time. However, if we continue to see deterioration in the global economy and the current market conditions in the semiconductor industry worsen, the carrying amount of our goodwill may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record a material impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY UTILIZE ALL OF OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. The manufacture and assembly of semiconductor devices requires significant fixed investment in manufacturing facilities, specialized equipment, and a skilled workforce. If we are unable to fully utilize our own fabrication facilities due to decreased demand, significant shift in product mix, obsolescence of the manufacturing equipment installed, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, or other reasons, our operating results will suffer. Our inability to produce at anticipated output levels could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders or customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. Gross margins were positively impacted for the year ended December 31, 2010 by higher overall shipment levels, increased production levels and factory loading at our wafer fabrication facilities, and a more favorable mix of higher margin microcontroller products included in our net revenues. If we are unable to operate our manufacturing facilities at optimal production levels, our operating costs will increase and gross margin and results from operations will be negatively affected. DISRUPTIONS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS CAN AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SUPPLY PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. The manufacture of semiconductor devices requires specialized raw materials, primarily certain types of silicon wafers. We generally utilize more than one source to acquire these wafers, but there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers capable of producing these wafers in the market. In addition, the raw materials, which include specialized chemicals and gases, and the equipment necessary for our business, could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders. Any significant interruption of the supply of raw materials could harm our business. WE COULD FACE PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS THAT RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT COSTS AND DAMAGE TO OUR REPUTATION WITH CUSTOMERS, WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. All of our products are sold with a limited warranty. However, we could incur costs not covered by our warranties, including additional labor costs, costs for replacing defective parts, reimbursement to customers for damages incurred in correcting their defective products, costs for product recalls or other damages. These costs could be disproportionately higher than the revenue and profits we receive from the sales of our products. Our products have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, manufacturing defects, software or firmware bugs, or other similar quality problems. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, any defects, bugs or other quality problems could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers. We have implemented significant quality control measures to mitigate these risks; however, it is possible that products shipped to our customers will contain defects, bugs or other quality problems, such problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur significant additional costs or delay shipments for revenue, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents THE OUTCOME OF CURRENTLY ONGOING AND FUTURE AUDITS OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS, BOTH IN THE U.S. AND IN FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR NET INCOME AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other foreign and domestic tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. While we believe that the resolution of these audits will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, the outcome is subject to significant uncertainties. If we are unable to obtain agreements with the tax authority on the various proposed adjustments, there could be an adverse material impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. OUR LEGAL ENTITY ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE IS COMPLEX, WHICH COULD RESULT IN UNANTICIPATED UNFAVORABLE TAX OR OTHER CONSEQUENCES, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR NET INCOME AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. WE CURRENTLY HAVE OVER 40 ENTITIES GLOBALLY AND SIGNIFICANT INTERCOMPANY LOANS BETWEEN ENTITIES. We currently operate legal entities in countries where we conduct manufacturing, design, and sales operations around the world. In some countries, we maintain multiple entities for tax or other purposes. Changes in tax laws, regulations, and related interpretations in the countries in which we operate may adversely affect our results of operations. We also have significant unsettled intercompany balances that could result in adverse tax or other consequences affecting our capital structure, intercompany interest rates and legal structure. We initiated a program in 2010 to reduce the complexity of our legal entity structure, reduce our potential tax exposure in many jurisdictions and reduce our intercompany loan balances. Despite these efforts, we may incur additional income tax or other expense related to our global operations, loan settlements or loan restructuring activities, or incur additional costs related to legal entity restructuring or dissolution efforts. FROM TIME TO TIME WE RECEIVE GRANTS FROM GOVERNMENTS, AGENCIES AND RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF THOSE GRANTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RECEIVE OR RECOGNIZE GRANT BENEFITS OR WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REPAY GRANT BENEFITS PREVIOUSLY PAID TO US AND RECOGNIZE RELATED CHARGES, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL POSITION. From time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from European governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations. The subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditure and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. Noncompliance with the conditions of the grants could result in the forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. For example, in the three months ended March 31, 2008, we repaid $40 million of government grants as a result of closing our North Tyneside manufacturing facility. In addition, we may need to record charges to reverse grant benefits recorded in prior periods as a result of changes to our plans for headcount, project spending, or capital investment relative to target levels agreed with government agencies at any of these specific locations. If we are unable to comply with any of the covenants in the grant agreements we may face adverse actions from the government agencies providing the grants and our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents CURRENT AND FUTURE LITIGATION AGAINST US COULD BE COSTLY AND TIME CONSUMING TO DEFEND. We are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. See Item 3 of this Form 10-K. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 