ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may affect the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could also affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. OUR REVENUE AND OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS. Our future operating results will be subject to quarterly variations based upon a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. As further discussed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that could affect our operating results include: •uncertain global macroeconomic conditions, especially in Europe and Asia, and fiscal and budget uncertainties in the United States;•the success of our customers’ end products, our ability to introduce new products into the market and our ability to improve and implement new manufacturing technologies and reduce manufacturing costs;•the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry;•disruption to our business caused by our increased dependence on outside foundries, and the financial instability of those foundries in some cases;•our dependence on selling through independent distributors and our ability to obtain accurate sell-through information from these distributors;•the complexity of our revenue reporting and dependence on our management’s ability to make judgments and estimates regarding inventory write-downs, future claims for returns and other matters affecting our financial statements;•our reliance on non-binding customer forecasts and the effect of customer changes to forecasts and actual demand;•our dependence on international sales and operations and the complexity of international laws and regulations relating to those sales and operations;•the effect of fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•the capacity constraints of our independent assembly contractors;•our ability to implement new manufacturing technologies and achieve acceptable manufacturing yields;•business disruptions caused by the disposal of our manufacturing facilities or restructuring activities and the impact of our related take-or-pay supply agreements if wafer prices decrease over time;•the effect of intellectual property and other litigation on us and our customers, and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights;•the highly competitive nature of our markets and our ability to keep pace with technological change;•our dependence on international sales and operations;11Table of Contents•information technology system failures or network disruptions and disruptions caused by our system integration efforts;•business interruptions, natural disasters, terrorist acts or similar unforeseen events or circumstances;•our ability to maintain relationships with our key customers, the absence of long-term supply contracts with most of our customers, and product liability claims our customers may bring;•unanticipated changes to environmental, health and safety regulations or related compliance issues;•our dependence on certain key personnel;•uneven expense recognition related to our issuance of performance-based restricted stock units;•the anti-takeover effects in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•the unfunded nature of our foreign pension plans;•the effect of acquisitions we may undertake, including our ability to effectively integrate acquisitions into our operations;•disruptions in the availability of raw materials;•the complexity of our global legal entity structure, the effect of intercompany loans within this structure, and the occurrence and outcome of income tax audits for these entities; and•our receipt of economic grants in various jurisdictions, which may require repayment if we are unable to comply with the terms of such grants.Any unfavorable changes in any of these factors could harm our operating results and may result in volatility or a decline in our stock price. UNCERTAIN GLOBAL MACRO-ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, ESPECIALLY IN EUROPE AND ASIA, AND FISCAL AND BUDGET UNCERTAINTIES IN THE UNITED STATES CONTINUE TO AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Slowing economic growth throughout the world, and continued uncertainty regarding macro-economic conditions in Europe and Asia, have adversely affected demand for our products. Continued adverse economic conditions, slow global growth, general uncertainty about the global economic recovery and ongoing fiscal and budgetary uncertainty in the United States may continue to adversely affect our business prospects. WE DEPEND SUBSTANTIALLY ON THE SUCCESS OF OUR CUSTOMERS’ END PRODUCTS, OUR INTRODUCTION OF NEW PRODUCTS INTO THE MARKET, AND OUR ABILITY TO REDUCE MANUFACTURING COSTS OF OUR PRODUCTS OVER TIME. We believe that our future sales will depend substantially on the success of our customers’ end products, our ability to introduce new products into the market, and our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products over time. Our new products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products or systems at their design stage. However, design wins can precede volume sales by a year or more. In addition, we may not be successful in achieving design wins or design wins may not result in future revenue, which depend in large part on our customers’ ability to sell their end products or systems within their respective markets. Rapid innovation within the semiconductor industry also continually increases pricing pressure, especially on products containing older technology. We experience continuous pricing pressure, just as many of our competitors do. Product life cycles in our industry are relatively short, and as a result, products tend to be replaced by more technologically advanced substitutes on a regular basis. In turn, demand for older technology falls, causing the price at which such products can be sold to drop, often quickly. As a result, the average selling price of each of our products usually declines as individual products mature and competitors enter the market. To offset average selling price decreases and to continue profitably supplying our products, we rely primarily on reducing costs to manufacture our products, improving our process technologies and production efficiency, increasing product sales to absorb fixed costs and introducing new, higher-priced products that incorporate advanced features or integrated technologies to address new or emerging markets. Our operating results could be harmed if such cost reductions, production improvements, increased product sales and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner.THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY CREATES FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND MAY ALSO AFFECT JUDGMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS WE APPLY IN PREPARING OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical, characterized by annual seasonality and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The semiconductor industry has also experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions.12Table of Contents Our operating results have been adversely affected in the past by industry-wide fluctuations in the demand for semiconductors, which resulted in under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity and declining gross margin. Our business may be harmed in the future by cyclical conditions in the semiconductor industry as a whole and by conditions within specific markets served by our products. These fluctuations in demand may also affect inventory write-downs we take or other items in our financial statements. Our inventories are stated at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out basis) or market. Determining market value for our inventories involves numerous judgments, estimates and assumptions, including assessing average selling prices and sales volumes for each of our products in future periods. The competitiveness of each product, market conditions and product lifecycles may change over time, resulting in a change in the judgments, estimates and assumptions we apply to establish inventory write-downs. The judgments, estimates and assumptions we apply in evaluating our inventory write-downs, including, for example, shortening or extending the anticipated life of our products, may have a material effect on our financial statements. If we overestimate demand, we may experience excess inventory levels. Inventory adjustments, based on the judgments, estimates and assumptions we make, may affect our results of operations, including our gross margin, in a positive or negative manner, depending on the nature of the adjustment. A significant portion of our revenue comes from sales to customers supplying consumer markets and from international sales. As a result, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenue in particular quarters of our fiscal year. The semiconductor industry has also been affected by significant shifts in consumer demand due to economic downturns or other factors, which can exacerbate the cyclicality within the industry and result in further diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have, in the past, experienced substantial quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue and operating results and expect in the future to continue to experience short term period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry and economic conditions. WE COULD EXPERIENCE DISRUPTION OF OUR BUSINESS DUE TO INCREASED DEPENDENCE ON OUTSIDE FOUNDRIES. After selling our European manufacturing facilities, we currently operate a single wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado. As a result, we rely substantially on independent third party foundry manufacturing partners to manufacture products for us. As part of this fab-lite strategy, we have expanded and will continue to expand our foundry relationships by entering into new agreements with third party foundries. If we cannot obtain sufficient capacity commitments, if our foundry partners suffer financial instability affecting their ability to manufacture our products, or if our foundry partners experience production delays for other reasons, the supply of our products could be disrupted, which could harm our business. In addition, difficulties in production yields can often occur when transitioning manufacturing processes to a new third party foundry. If our foundry partners fail to deliver quality products and components on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we manufactured approximately 56% of our products in our own wafer fabrication facility compared to 50% for the year ended December 31, 2011.We expect over time that an increasing portion of our wafer fabrication will be undertaken by third party foundries. Our fab-lite strategy exposes us to the following risks: •reduced control over delivery schedules and product costs;•financial instability, or liquidity issues, affecting our foundry partners;•higher than anticipated manufacturing costs;•inability of our manufacturing subcontractors to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote adequate capacity to produce our products;•possible abandonment of key fabrication processes by our foundry subcontractors for products that are strategically important to us;•reduced control over or decline in product quality and reliability;•inability to maintain continuing relationships with our foundries;•restricted ability to meet customer demand when faced with product shortages or order increases; and•increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property.If any of the above risks occur, we could experience an interruption in our supply chain, an increase in costs or a reduction in our product quality and reliability, which could delay or decrease our revenue and adversely affect our business. We attempt to mitigate these risks with a strategy of qualifying multiple foundry subcontractors. However, there can be no guarantee that this or any other strategy will eliminate or significantly reduce these risks. Additionally, since most independent foundries are located in foreign countries, we are subject to risks generally associated with contracting with foreign manufacturers, 13Table of Contentsincluding currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates and import and export regulations. Accordingly, we may experience problems maintaining expected timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We closely monitor the financial condition of our foundry partners, especially those in Europe with which we have take-or-pay contracts. We believe that we have adequate secondary sources for our products if those companies reduce or discontinue their business activities. Nonetheless, while we do not believe that any financial distress, or any other material adverse financial event affecting those foundries, would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, the financial instability of a foundry partner does require an investment of significant management time, may require additional changes in operational planning as conditions develop, and could have other unexpected effects on our business. In the year ended December 31, 2012, we took a charge related to a foundry arrangement of $10.6 million, for excess purchase commitments and an impairment of receivables from a foundry supplier of $6.5 million (See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion).The terms on which we will be able to obtain wafer production for our products, and the timing and volume of such production, will be substantially dependent on future agreements to be negotiated with independent foundries. We cannot be certain that the agreements we reach with such foundries will be on favorable terms. For example, any future agreements with independent foundries may be short-term in duration, may not be renewable, and may provide inadequate certainty regarding the future supply and pricing of wafers for our products. If demand for our products increases significantly, we have no assurances that our third party foundries will be able to increase their manufacturing capacity to a level that meets our requirements, potentially preventing us from meeting our customer demand and harming our business and customer relationships. Also, even if our independent foundries are able to meet our increased demand, those foundries may decide to charge significantly higher wafer prices to us, which could reduce our gross margin or require us to offset the increased prices by increasing prices to our customers, either of which could harm our business and operating results. OUR REVENUE IS DEPENDENT TO A LARGE EXTENT ON SELLING TO END CUSTOMERS THROUGH INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTORS. THESE DISTRIBUTORS MAY HAVE LIMITED FINANCIAL RESOURCES TO CONDUCT THEIR BUSINESS OR TO REPRESENT OUR INTERESTS EFFECTIVELY AND THEY MAY TERMINATE OR MODIFY THEIR RELATIONSHIPS WITH US IN A MANNER THAT ADVERSELY AFFECTS OUR SALES. Sales through distributors accounted for 51%, 57% and 57% of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We are dependent on our distributors to supplement our direct marketing and sales efforts. Our agreements with independent distributors can generally be terminated for convenience by either party upon relatively short notice. Generally, these agreements are non-exclusive and also permit our distributors to offer and promote our competitors’ products. If any significant distributor or a substantial number of our distributors terminated their relationship with us, decided to market our competitors’ products in preference to our products, were unable or not willing to sell our products or were unable to pay us for products sold for any reason, our ability to bring our products to market could be adversely affected, we could have difficulty in collecting outstanding receivable balances, or we could incur other loss of revenue, charges or other adjustments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. In some cases, certain of our distributors in Asia may also have more limited financial resources and constrained balance sheets that distributors in other geographic areas. If these distributors are unable effectively to finance their operations, or to represent our interests effectively because of financial limitations, our business could also be adversely affected. OUR REVENUE REPORTING IS HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON RECEIVING ACCURATE AND TIMELY SELL-THROUGH INFORMATION FROM OUR DISTRIBUTORS. IF WE RECEIVE INACCURATE OR LATE INFORMATION FROM OUR DISTRIBUTORS, OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING COULD BE MISSTATED. Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on receiving pertinent, accurate and timely data from our distributors. As our distributors resell products, they provide us with periodic data regarding the products sold, including prices, quantities, end customers, and the amount of our products they still have in stock. Because the data set is large and complex and because there may be errors or delays in the reported data, we may use estimates and apply judgments to reconcile distributors’ reported inventories to their end customer sales transactions. Actual results could vary unfavorably from our estimates, which could affect our operating results and adversely affect our business.OUR REVENUE REPORTING IS COMPLEX AND DEPENDENT, IN PART, ON OUR MANAGEMENT’S ABILITY TO MAKE JUDGMENTS AND ESTIMATES REGARDING FUTURE CLAIMS FOR RETURNS. IF OUR JUDGMENTS OR ESTIMATES ABOUT THESE MATTERS ARE INCORRECT OR INACCURATE, OUR REVENUE REPORTING COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our revenue reporting is highly dependent on judgments and estimates that our management is required to make when preparing our financial statements. We currently recognize revenue for our distributors based in the United States and Europe in a different manner from the method we use for our distributors based in Asia (excluding Japan). 14Table of ContentsFor sales to certain distributors (primarily based in the U.S. and Europe) with agreements allowing for price protection and product returns, we have not historically had the ability to estimate future claims at the point of shipment, and given that price is not fixed or determinable at that time, revenue is not recognized until the distributor sells the product to its end customer. For sales to independent distributors in Asia, excluding Japan, we invoice these distributors at full list price upon shipment and issue a rebate, or “credit,” once product has been sold to the end customer and the distributor has met certain reporting requirements. After reviewing the pricing, rebate and quotation-related terms, we concluded that we could reliably estimate future claims; therefore, we recognize revenue at the point of shipment for these Asian distributors, assuming all of the other revenue recognition criteria are met, utilizing amounts invoiced, less estimated future claims. As the percentage of our sales to Asia increases, a larger portion of our revenue reporting will be based on this methodology. If, however, our judgments or estimates are incorrect or inaccurate regarding future claims, our revenue reporting could be adversely affected. In addition, the fact that we recognize revenue differently in the United States and Europe than in Asia (excluding Japan) makes the preparation of our financial statements more complicated, and, therefore, potentially more susceptible to inaccuracies over time. WE BUILD SEMICONDUCTORS BASED, FOR THE MOST PART, ON NON-BINDING FORECASTS FROM OUR CUSTOMERS. AS A RESULT, CHANGES TO FORECASTS FROM ACTUAL DEMAND MAY RESULT IN EXCESS INVENTORY OR OUR INABILITY TO FILL CUSTOMER ORDERS ON A TIMELY BASIS, WHICH MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. We schedule production and build semiconductor devices based primarily on non-binding forecasts from customers and our own internal forecasts. Typically, customer orders, consistent with general industry practices, may be cancelled or rescheduled with short notice to us. In addition, our customers frequently place orders requesting product delivery in a much shorter period than our lead time to fully fabricate and test devices. Because the markets we serve are volatile and subject to rapid technological, price and end-user demand changes, our forecasts of unit quantities to build may be significantly incorrect. Changes to forecasted demand from actual demand may result in us producing unit quantities in excess of orders from customers, which could result in additional expense for the write-down of excess inventory and negatively affect our gross margin and results of operations. Our forecasting risks may increase as a result of our fab-lite strategy because we will have less control over modifying production schedules to match changes in forecasted demand. If we commit to order foundry wafers and cannot cancel or reschedule our commitment without significant costs or cancellation penalties, we may be forced to purchase inventory in excess of demand, which could result in a write-down of inventories and negatively affect our gross margin and results of operations. Conversely, failure to produce or obtain sufficient wafers for increased demand could cause us to miss revenue opportunities and could affect our customers’ ability to sell products, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX LAWS RELATING TO TRADE, EXPORT CONTROLS, FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES AND ANTI-BRIBERY LAWS AMONG MANY OTHER SUBJECTS. A VIOLATION OF, OR CHANGE IN, THESE LAWS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. For hardware, software or technology exported from, or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of, the United States, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to, the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). Hardware, software and technology exported from, or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of, other countries may also be subject to non-U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports. Under these laws and regulations, we are responsible for obtaining all necessary licenses and approvals for exports of hardware, software and technology, as well as the provision of technical assistance. In many cases, a determination of the applicable export control laws and related licensing requirements depends on design intent, the source and origin of a specific technology, the nationalities and localities of participants involved in creating, marketing, selling or supporting that technology, the specific technical contributions made by individuals to that technology and other matters of an intensely factual nature. We are also required to obtain all necessary export licenses prior to transferring technical data or software to foreign persons. In addition, we are required to obtain necessary export licenses prior to the export or re-export of hardware, software and technology to any person identified on the U.S. Department of Commerce Denied Persons or Entity List, the U.S. Department of Treasury’s Specially Designated Nationals or Blocked Persons List, or the Department of State’s Debarred List. Products for use in space, satellite, military, nuclear, chemical/biological weapons, rocket systems or unmanned air vehicle applications may also require export licenses and involve many of the same complexities and risks of non-compliance in the U.S. and elsewhere. We continually seek to enhance our export compliance program, including ongoing analysis of historical and current product shipments and technology transfers. We also work with, and assist, government officials, when requested, to ensure compliance with applicable export laws and regulations, and we continue to develop additional operational procedures to improve our compliance efforts. However, export laws and regulations are highly complex and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction; a determination by U.S. 15Table of Contentsor other governments that we have failed to comply with any export control laws or trade sanctions, including failure to properly restrict an export to the persons or countries set forth on government restricted party lists, could result in significant civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, loss of revenue from certain customers or damages claims from any customers adversely affected by such penalties, and exclusion from participation in U.S. government contracts. As we review or audit our import and export practices, from time to time, we may discover previously unknown errors in our compliance practices that require corrective actions; these actions could include voluntary disclosures of those matters to appropriate government agencies, discontinuance or suspension of product sales pending a resolution of any reviews, or other adverse interim or final actions. Further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors, foundries or other third parties. For example, in the past, one of our distributors was added to the U.S. Department of Commerce Entity List, resulting in the termination of our relationship with that distributor. Any one or more of these compliance errors, sanctions or a change in law or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to complex laws that seek to regulate the payment of bribes or other forms of compensation to foreign officials or persons affiliated with companies or organizations in which foreign governments may own an interest or exercise control. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States requires United States companies to comply with an extensive legal framework to prevent bribery of foreign officials. The laws are complex and require that we closely monitor local practices of our overseas offices. The United States Department of Justice has recently heightened enforcement of these laws. In addition, other countries continue to implement similar laws that may have extra-territorial effect. The United Kingdom, for example, where we have operations, has enacted the U.K. Bribery Act, which could impose significant oversight obligations on us and could be applicable to our operations outside of the United Kingdom. The costs for complying with these and similar laws may be substantial and could reasonably be expected to require significant management time and focus. Any violation of these or similar laws, intentional or unintentional, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS, AND REVENUE AND COSTS DENOMINATED IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AS A RESULT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY MOVES AGAINST THE DOLLAR. THE ELIMINATION OF THE EURO AS A COMMON CURRENCY OR THE WITHDRAWAL OF MEMBER STATES FROM THE EUROPEAN UNION COULD ALSO ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND INTRODUCE UNCERTAINTIES WITH RESPECT TO PAYMENT TERMS IN OUR CONTRACTS. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. Our primary exposure relates to revenue and operating expenses in Europe (denominated in Euros). When we take an order denominated in a foreign currency, we will receive fewer dollars, and lower revenue, than we initially anticipated if that local currency weakens against the dollar before we ship our product. Conversely, revenue will be positively impacted if the local currency strengthens against the dollar before we ship our product. Costs may also be impacted by foreign currency fluctuation. For example, in Europe, where we have costs denominated in European currencies, costs will decrease if the local currency weakens against the dollar. Conversely, costs will increase if the local currency strengthens against the dollar. Our income from operations would have been approximately $7.7 million higher had the average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 remained the same as the average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2011. The effect is determined assuming that all foreign currency denominated transactions that occurred for the year ended December 31, 2012 were recorded using the average foreign currency exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2011.We also face the risk that our accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies will be devalued if such foreign currencies weaken quickly and significantly against the dollar. Similarly, we face the risk that our accounts payable and debt obligations denominated in foreign currencies will increase if such foreign currencies strengthen quickly and significantly against the dollar. We have not historically utilized hedging instruments to offset our foreign currency exposure, although we may determine to do so in the future. Because we conduct business in Europe, we may have additional exposure to currency fluctuations if the Euro is eliminated as a common currency within the Eurozone, or if individual countries determine to stop using that currency. In any of those events, we would have to address exchange rate and conversion issues affecting the Euros we then held and the payments that we expected to receive, or to make, in Euros. There is no certainty regarding the potential economic effect of these Euro currency risks, nor is there any certainty regarding the effect on payment terms included within outstanding sales contracts if the Euro were eliminated or not accepted in some countries as legal tender. Because of those uncertainties, we are not able to assess fully, as of the date of this Annual Report, the potential effect on our business or financial condition if the Eurozone were to disband, if a member state determined to substitute a new currency for the Euro within its borders, or if the Euro became generally less accepted as a global currency. WE DEPEND ON INDEPENDENT ASSEMBLY CONTRACTORS THAT MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS OR TO MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS. 16Table of ContentsAfter wafer testing, we ship wafers to various independent assembly contractors, where the wafers are separated into die, packaged and, in some cases, further tested. Our reliance on independent contractors to assemble, package and test our products may expose us to significant risks, including the following: •reduced control over quality and delivery schedules;•the potential lack of adequate capacity;•discontinuance or phase-out of our contractors’ assembly processes;•inability of our contractors to develop and maintain assembly and test methods and equipment that are appropriate for our products;•lack of long-term contracts and the potential inability to secure strategically important service contracts on favorable terms, if at all;•increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property; and•financial instability, or liquidity issues, affecting our subcontractors.In addition, our independent contractors may not continue to assemble, package and test our products for a variety of reasons. Moreover, because most of our independent assembly contractors are located in foreign countries, we are subject to certain risks generally associated with contracting with foreign suppliers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, including export controls, and changes in tariff and freight rates. Accordingly, we may experience problems with the time, adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. WE MAY FACE BUSINESS DISRUPTION RISKS, AS WELL AS THE RISK OF SIGNIFICANT UNANTICIPATED COSTS, AS WE CONSIDER, OR AS A RESULT OF, CHANGES IN OUR BUSINESS AND ASSET PORTFOLIO. We are continually reviewing potential changes in our business and asset portfolio throughout our worldwide operations in order to enhance our overall competitiveness and viability. Disposal and restructuring activities that we have undertaken, and may undertake in the future, can divert significant time and resources, involve substantial costs and lead to production and product development delays and may fail to enhance our overall competitiveness and viability as intended, any of which can negatively impact our business. Our disposal activities have in the past and may, in the future, trigger restructuring, impairment and other accounting charges and/or result in a loss on sale of assets. Any of these charges or losses could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have in the past and may, in the future, experience labor union or workers’ council objections, or labor unrest actions (including possible strikes), when we seek to reduce our manufacturing or operating facilities in Europe and other regions. Many of our operations are located in countries and regions that have extensive employment regulations that we must comply with in order to reduce our workforce, and we may incur significant costs to complete such exercises. Any of those events could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We continue to evaluate existing restructuring accruals related to restructuring plans previously implemented. As a result, there may be additional restructuring charges or reversals or recoveries of previous charges. We may incur additional restructuring and asset impairment charges in connection with additional restructuring plans adopted in the future. Any such restructuring or asset impairment charges recorded in the future could significantly harm our business and operating results. During 2012, we implemented various cost reduction actions, and recorded restructuring charges of $23.5 million related to workforce reductions for the year ended December 31, 2012. We also recorded restructuring charges of $0.5 million related to lease terminations associated with those workforce reductions. As of December 31, 2012, we recorded $16.2 million in accrued restructuring charges, and we expect to make the cash severance payments in respect of those accruals within the next twelve months. WE HAVE IN THE PAST ENTERED INTO “TAKE-OR-PAY” SUPPLY AGREEMENTS WITH BUYERS OF OUR WAFER MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS. IF THE CONTRACTUAL PRICING FOR THOSE WAFERS EXCEEDS THE PRICES WE COULD HAVE OTHERWISE OBTAINED IN THE OPEN MARKET, WE MAY INCUR A CHARGE TO OUR OPERATING RESULTS. We entered into supply agreements with the acquirers of our European wafer manufacturing operations that committed us, or specified subsidiaries of ours, to purchase wafers from these acquirers on a “take-or-pay” basis for a number of years. For example, in connection with the sale of our manufacturing operations in Rousset, France in June 2010, one of our subsidiaries entered into a manufacturing services agreement that, as amended, requires this subsidiary to purchase wafers from LFoundry Rousset SAS until June 2013 on a “take-or-pay” basis. Similarly, in connection with the sale of our manufacturing operations in Heilbronn, Germany, one of our subsidiaries entered into a wafer supply agreement that, as amended, required this subsidiary to purchase wafers from Telefunken Semiconductors GmbH & Co. KG (“TSG”) through August 2012 on a “take-or-pay” basis. In August 2012, one of our subsidiaries entered into a new wafer supply agreement that requires this subsidiary to purchase wafers from 17Table of ContentsTelefunken Semiconductors International LLC, the parent of TSG, through May 2013 on a "take-or-pay" basis. In addition to the direct financial effects that these “take-or-pay” arrangements may have, they may also cause us, in some cases, to acquire excess inventory at times when not needed based on demand forecasts (See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). IF WE ARE UNABLE TO IMPLEMENT NEW MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGIES OR FAIL TO ACHIEVE ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURING YIELDS, OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE HARMED. Whether demand for semiconductors is rising or falling, we are constantly required by competitive pressures in the industry to successfully implement new manufacturing technologies in order to reduce the geometries of our semiconductors and produce more integrated circuits per wafer. We are developing processes that support effective feature sizes as small as 45 nanometers.Fabrication of our integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly-controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. Whether through the use of our foundries or third party manufacturers, we may experience problems in achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of wafers, particularly during a transition in the manufacturing process technology for our products or with respect to manufacturing of new products. We have previously experienced production delays and yield difficulties in connection with earlier expansions of our wafer fabrication capacity or transitions in manufacturing process technology. Production delays or difficulties in achieving acceptable yields at our fabrication facility or at the fabrication facilities of our third party manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to obtain the additional cash from operations or external financing necessary to fund the implementation of new manufacturing technologies. WE MAY, DIRECTLY AND INDIRECTLY, FACE THIRD PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS THAT COULD BE COSTLY TO DEFEND, DISTRACT OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM AND EMPLOYEES, AND RESULT IN LOSS OF SIGNIFICANT RIGHTS. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which have on occasion resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. From time to time we receive communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights covering our products or processes. In order to avoid the significant costs associated with our defense in litigation involving such claims, we may license the use of the technologies that are the subject of these claims from such companies and make regular corresponding royalty payments, which may harm our cash position and operating results. We have in the past been involved in intellectual property infringement lawsuits, which adversely affected our operating results. In addition to patent infringement lawsuits in which we may be directly involved and named as a defendant, we also may assist our customers, in many cases at our own cost, in defending intellectual property lawsuits involving technologies that are combined with our technologies. See Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. The cost of defending against intellectual property lawsuits, responding to subpoenas, preparing our employees to testify, or assisting our customers in defending against such lawsuits, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, can be substantial. If such infringement lawsuits are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies at issue in the lawsuits, and if we are unable to obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology or design new technology to avoid infringement, our business and operating results may be significantly harmed. Many of our new and existing products and technologies are intended to address needs in specialized and emerging markets. Given the aggressive pursuit and defense of intellectual property rights that are typical in the semiconductor industry, we expect to see an increase in intellectual property litigation in many of the key markets that our products and technologies serve. An increase in infringement lawsuits within these markets generally, even if they do not involve us, may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, our standard contracts provide remedies to our customers, such as defense, settlement, or payment of judgments for intellectual property claims related to the use of our products. From time to time, we will indemnify customers against combinations of loss, expense, or liability related to the sale and the use of our products and services. Even if claims or litigation against us are not valid or successfully asserted, defending these claims could result in significant costs and diversion of the attention of management and other key employees. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OR ASSERT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE HARMED. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to protect and assert our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. It is possible that 18Table of Contentscompetitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect them.We hold numerous U.S. and foreign patents. We can provide no assurance, however, that these, or any of our future patents, will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in ways that detract from their value. Changes in laws may also result in us having less intellectual property protection than we may have experienced historically. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, competitors may be able to offer products similar to our products more easily. Our competitors may also be able to design around our patents, which would harm our business, financial position and results of operations. SIGNIFICANT PATENT LITIGATION IN THE MOBILE DEVICE SECTOR MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS. UNFAVORABLE OUTCOMES IN SUCH PATENT LITIGATION COULD AFFECT OUR CUSTOMERS’ ABILITY TO SELL THEIR PRODUCTS AND, AS A RESULT, COULD ULTIMATELY AFFECT THEIR ABILITY TO PURCHASE OUR PRODUCTS IF THEIR MOBILE DEVICE BUSINESS DECLINES. There is significant ongoing patent litigation throughout the world involving many of our customers, especially in the mobile device sector. The outcome of these disputes is uncertain. While we may not have a direct involvement in these matters, an adverse outcome that affects the ability of our customers to ship or sell their products could ultimately have an adverse effect on our business. That could happen if these customers reduce their business exposure in the mobile device sector, are prevented from selling their products in certain markets, seek to reduce their cost structures to help fund the payment of unanticipated licensing fees, or are required to take other actions that slow or hinder their market penetration. OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY SUFFER PRICE REDUCTIONS, REDUCED REVENUE, REDUCED GROSS MARGIN AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. We operate in markets that are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price decline. Throughout our product line, we compete with a number of large semiconductor manufacturers, such as Cypress, Freescale, Fujitsu, Hitachi, Infineon, Intel, Microchip, NXP Semiconductors, ON Semiconductor, Renesas, Samsung, Spansion, STMicroelectronics, Synaptics, and Texas Instruments. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and management resources than we do. As we introduce new products, we are increasingly competing directly with these companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell products in specialized markets that our products address. We compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our products, including their speed, density, power usage, reliability and specialty packaging alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. During the last several years, we have experienced significant price competition in several business segments, especially in our nonvolatile memory segment for EPROM and Serial EEPROM products, as well as in our commodity microcontrollers. Competitive pressures in the semiconductor market from existing competitors, new entrants, new technology and cyclical demand, among other factors, can result in declining average selling prices for our products. To the extent that such price declines affect our products, our revenue and gross margin could decline. In addition to the factors described above, our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the following: •our success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies and processes;•our ability to offer integrated solutions using our advanced nonvolatile memory process with other technologies;•the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their systems;•product introductions by our competitors;•the number and nature of our competitors in a given market;•our ability to minimize production costs by outsourcing our manufacturing, assembly and testing functions;•our ability to improve our process technologies and production efficiency; and•general market and economic conditions.Many of these factors are outside of our control, and may cause us to be unable to compete successfully in the future, which would materially harm our business. WE MUST KEEP PACE WITH TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and that address customer requirements. We are continually designing and commercializing 19Table of Contentsnew and improved products to maintain our competitive position. These new products typically are more technologically complex than their predecessors and have increased risk of deployment delays and quality and yield issues, among other risks. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including timely completion and introduction of new product designs, achievement of acceptable fabrication yields and market acceptance. Our development of new products and our customers’ decisions to design them into their systems can take as long as three years, depending upon the complexity of the device and the application. Accordingly, new product development requires a long-term forecast of market trends and customer needs, and the successful introduction of our products may be adversely affected by competing products or other technologies serving the markets addressed by our products. Our qualification process involves multiple cycles of testing and improving a product’s functionality to ensure that our products operate in accordance with design specifications. If we experience delays in the introduction of new products, our future operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, new product introductions frequently depend on our development and implementation of new process technologies, and our future growth will depend in part upon the successful development and market acceptance of these process technologies. Our integrated solution products require more technically sophisticated sales and marketing personnel to market these products successfully to customers. We are developing new products with smaller feature sizes and increased functionality, the fabrication of which will be substantially more complex than fabrication of our current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our operating results will be harmed. Our new product development, process development or marketing and sales efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve market acceptance, and price expectations for our new products may not be achieved, any of which could significantly harm our business. OUR OPERATING RESULTS ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO VARIOUS RISKS. Net revenue outside the United States accounted for 87%, 86% and 84% of our net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect that revenue derived from international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenue. International sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: •greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property;•reduced flexibility and increased cost of effecting staffing adjustments;•foreign labor conditions and practices;•adverse changes in tax laws;•credit and collectibility risks on our trade receivables with customers in certain jurisdictions;•longer collection cycles;•legal and regulatory requirements, including antitrust laws, import and export regulations, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws, and environmental and privacy regulations and changes to those laws and regulations;•negative effects from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;•international trade regulations, including duties and tariffs;•cash repatriation restrictions;•impact of natural disasters on local infrastructures, including those of our distributors and end-customers; and•general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets.Some of our distributors, independent foundries, independent assembly, packaging and test contractors and other business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to manage the risks of international operations successfully, our business may be adversely affected if our distributors, independent foundries and contractors, and other business partners are not able to manage these risks successfully. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM FAILURES OR NETWORK DISRUPTIONS THAT COULD DAMAGE OUR REPUTATION, BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We rely on our information technology infrastructure and certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, cyber attacks, sabotage, vandalism, or similar events or disruptions. Our security measures or those of our third party service providers may not detect or prevent such security breaches. Any such compromise of our information security could result in the unauthorized publication of our confidential business or proprietary information, result in the unauthorized release of customer 20Table of Contentsor employee data, result in a violation of privacy or other laws, expose us to a risk of litigation or damage our reputation. In addition, our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business, which could negatively affect our operating results. OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE HARMED BY BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS, NATURAL DISASTERS, TERRORIST ACTS OR OTHER EVENTS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, volcanoes, power loss, public health issues, geopolitical uncertainties, telecommunications failures and other events beyond our control. Our headquarters, some of our manufacturing facilities, the manufacturing facilities of third-party foundries and some of our major suppliers’ and customers’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults and in potential terrorist target areas. We do not have a comprehensive disaster recovery plan. In the event of a major earthquake, other natural or manmade disaster or terrorist act, we could experience loss of life of our employees, destruction of facilities or other business interruptions. The operations of our suppliers could also be affected by natural disasters and other disruptions, which could cause shortages and price increases in various essential materials. We use third party freight firms for nearly all our shipments from vendors and our manufacturing facilities and for shipments to customers of our final product. We maintain property and business interruption insurance, but there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all costs associated with such disasters and disruptions. In recent years, based on insurance market conditions, we have relied to a greater degree on self-insurance. If a major earthquake, other disaster, or a terrorist act affects us and insurance coverage is unavailable for any reason, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment, we may suffer a temporary halt in our ability to manufacture and transport products, and we could suffer damages that could materially adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY EXPERIENCE PROBLEMS WITH KEY CUSTOMERS THAT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to maintain close, satisfactory relationships with large customers is important to our business. A reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from our large customers would harm our business. Similarly, the loss of one or more of our key customers, reduced orders by any of our key customers, or significant variations in the timing of orders, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is organized into four operating segments (see Note 14 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). The principal customers in each of our markets are described in Item 1 “Business — Principal Markets and Customers” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.WE ARE NOT PROTECTED BY LONG-TERM SUPPLY CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS. We do not typically enter into long-term supply contracts with our customers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of an early termination by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we will be able to rapidly replace that revenue source, which would harm our financial results. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY REGULATIONS, WHICH COULD IMPOSE UNANTICIPATED REQUIREMENTS ON OUR BUSINESS IN THE FUTURE. ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CURRENT OR FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY SUBJECT US TO LIABILITY OR SUSPENSION OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination, and employee health and safety. We could incur significant costs as a result of any failure by us to comply with, or any liability we may incur under, environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including the limitation or suspension of production, monetary fines or civil or criminal sanctions, clean-up costs or other future liabilities in excess of our reserves. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing the recycling of our products, the materials that may be included in our products, and our obligation to dispose of our products at the end of their useful lives. For example, the European Directive 2002/95/EC on restriction of hazardous substances (RoHS Directive) bans the placing on the European Union market of new electrical and electronic equipment containing more than specified levels of lead and other hazardous compounds. As more countries enact requirements like the RoHS Directive, and as exemptions are phased out, we could incur substantial additional costs to convert the remainder of our portfolio to comply with such requirements, conduct required research and development, alter manufacturing processes, or adjust supply chain management. Such changes could also result in significant inventory obsolescence. In addition, compliance with environmental, health and safety requirements could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire costly pollution control equipment, incur other significant expenses or modify our manufacturing processes. We also are subject to cleanup obligations at properties that we currently own or at facilities that we may have owned in the past or at which we conducted operations. In the event of the discovery of new or previously unknown contamination, additional requirements with respect to existing contamination, or the imposition of other cleanup obligations at these or other sites for which we are responsible, we may be required to take remedial or other measures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.21Table of Contents THE LOSS OF ANY KEY PERSONNEL ON WHOM WE DEPEND MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and in the development of new products and processes. The competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could harm our business. ACCOUNTING FOR OUR PERFORMANCE-BASED RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS IS SUBJECT TO JUDGMENT AND MAY LEAD TO UNPREDICTABLE EXPENSE RECOGNITION. THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN UNDER WHICH THOSE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS WERE ISSUED MAY ALSO AFFECT THE DEDUCTIBILITY OF SOME COMPENSATION PAID TO OUR NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS. We have issued, and may in the future continue to issue, performance-based restricted stock units to eligible employees, entitling those employees to receive restricted stock if they, and we, meet designated performance criteria established by our compensation committee. For example, in May 2011, we adopted the 2011 Long-Term Performance-Based Incentive Plan (the “2011 Plan”), which provides for the grant of restricted stock units to eligible employees, subject to the satisfaction of specified performance metrics. The performance periods for the 2011 Plan run from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013. We recorded total stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based restricted stock units of $12.7 million and $7.5 million under the 2011 Plan for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We recognize the stock-based compensation expense for performance-based restricted stock units when we believe it is probable that we will achieve the specified performance criteria. If achieved, the awards vests. If the performance goals are not met, no compensation expense is recognized and any previously recognized compensation expense is reversed. The fair value of each award is recognized over the service period and is reduced for estimated forfeitures. We are required to reassess the probability of vesting at each reporting date, and any change in our forecasts may result in an increase or decrease to the expense recognized. As a result, the expense recognition for performance based restricted stock units could change over time, requiring adjustments to the financial statements to reflect changes in our judgment regarding the probability of achieving the performance goals. The implementation of our 2011 Plan may also affect our ability to receive federal income tax deductions for compensation in excess of $1 million paid, during any fiscal year, to our named executive officers. To the extent that aspects of a performance-based compensation plan such as ours are adjusted in the discretion of a compensation committee, the exercise of that discretion, notwithstanding that it is expressly permitted by the terms of a plan, may result in plan compensation awarded to named executive officers not being deductible. Our compensation committee has retained the discretion to implement our 2011 Plan, notwithstanding any potential loss of deductibility, in the manner that it believes most effectively achieves the objectives of our compensation philosophies. SYSTEM INTEGRATION DISRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We periodically make enhancements to our integrated financial and supply chain management systems. The enhancement process is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Operational disruptions during the course of such processes or delays in the implementation of such enhancements could impact our operations. Our ability to forecast sales demand, ship products, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired while we are making these enhancements. PROVISIONS IN OUR RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, voting rights, preferences and privileges, and restrictions of those shares without the approval of our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, by making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. OUR FOREIGN PENSION PLANS ARE UNFUNDED, AND ANY REQUIREMENT TO FUND THESE PLANS IN THE FUTURE COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR CASH POSITION AND OPERATING CAPITAL. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all of our French and German employees. Plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. Benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. The projected benefit obligation totaled $40.6 million at December 31, 2012 and $29.8 million at December 31, 2011. The plans are unfunded, in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans. Benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. We expect to pay approximately $0.5 million 22Table of Contentsin 2013 for benefits earned. Should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively affect our cash position and operating capital. FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAY RESULT IN UNANTICIPATED ACCOUNTING CHARGES OR MAY OTHERWISE ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND RESULT IN DIFFICULTIES IN INTEGRATING THE OPERATIONS, PERSONNEL, TECHNOLOGIES, PRODUCTS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS OF ACQUIRED COMPANIES OR BUSINESSES, OR BE DILUTIVE TO EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS. A key element of our business strategy includes expansion through the acquisition of businesses, assets, products or technologies that allow us to complement our existing product offerings, expand our market coverage, increase our skilled engineering workforce or enhance our technological capabilities. We continually evaluate and explore strategic opportunities as they arise, including business combination transactions, strategic partnerships, and the purchase or sale of assets, including tangible and intangible assets such as intellectual property. Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company’s technologies, products and product development plans as a result of unanticipated costs and expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, difficulties ramping up volume production, or contractual, intellectual property or employment issues. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to stay with us post-acquisition. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. Furthermore, these challenges would be even greater if we acquired a business or entered into a business combination transaction with a company that was larger and more difficult to integrate than the companies we have historically acquired. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions or that we will realize any anticipated benefits or synergies from any of our historic or future acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. We are required under U.S. GAAP to test goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time that circumstances arise indicating the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable. At December 31, 2012, we had $104.4 million of goodwill. We completed our annual test of goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of 2012 and concluded that we did not have any impairment at that time. However, if we continue to see deterioration in the global economy and the current market conditions in the semiconductor industry worsen, the carrying amount of our goodwill may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record a material impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. DISRUPTIONS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS CAN AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SUPPLY PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS, WHICH COULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. The manufacture of semiconductor devices requires specialized raw materials, primarily certain types of silicon wafers. We generally utilize more than one source to acquire these wafers, but there are only a limited number of qualified suppliers capable of producing these wafers in the market. In addition, the raw materials, which include specialized chemicals and gases, and the equipment necessary for our business, could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages and price increases from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders. Any significant interruption of the supply of raw materials or increase in cost of raw materials could harm our business. WE COULD FACE PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS THAT RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT COSTS AND DAMAGE TO OUR REPUTATION WITH CUSTOMERS, WHICH WOULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. All of our products are sold with a limited warranty. However, we could incur costs not covered by our warranties, including additional labor costs, costs for replacing defective parts, reimbursement to customers for damages incurred in correcting their 23Table of Contentsdefective products, costs for product recalls or other damages. These costs could be disproportionately higher than the revenue and profits we receive from the sales of our products. Our products have previously experienced, and may in the future experience, manufacturing defects, software or firmware bugs, or other similar quality problems. If any of our products contain defects or bugs, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, any defects, bugs or other quality problems could interrupt or delay sales or shipment of our products to our customers.We have implemented significant quality control measures to mitigate these risks; however, it is possible that products shipped to our customers will contain defects, bugs or other quality problems. Such problems may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur significant additional costs or delay shipments, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. THE OUTCOME OF CURRENTLY ONGOING AND FUTURE AUDITS OF OUR INCOME TAX RETURNS, BOTH IN THE U.S. AND IN FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS, COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR NET INCOME AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other foreign and domestic tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. While we believe that the resolution of these audits will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, the outcome is subject to significant uncertainties. If we are unable to obtain agreements with the tax authority on the various proposed adjustments, there could be an adverse material impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. OUR LEGAL ENTITY ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE IS COMPLEX, WHICH COULD RESULT IN UNFAVORABLE TAX OR OTHER CONSEQUENCES, WHICH COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR NET INCOME AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We currently operate legal entities in countries where we conduct manufacturing, design, and sales operations around the world. In some countries, we maintain multiple entities for tax or other purposes. Changes in tax laws, regulations, and related interpretations in the countries in which we operate may adversely affect our results of operations. We have many entities globally and unsettled intercompany balances between some of these entities that could result, if changes in law, regulations or related interpretations occur, in adverse tax or other consequences affecting our capital structure, intercompany interest rates and legal structure. FROM TIME TO TIME WE RECEIVE GRANTS FROM GOVERNMENTS, AGENCIES AND RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPLY WITH THE TERMS OF THOSE GRANTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RECEIVE OR RECOGNIZE GRANT BENEFITS OR WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REPAY GRANT BENEFITS PREVIOUSLY PAID TO US AND RECOGNIZE RELATED CHARGES, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL POSITION. From time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from European governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations. The subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditure and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. Noncompliance with the conditions of the grants could result in the forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. CURRENT AND FUTURE LITIGATION AGAINST US COULD BE COSTLY AND TIME CONSUMING TO DEFEND. We are subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. See Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.