ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following trends, uncertainties and risks may impact the “forward-looking” statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. THE RESULTS OF OUR AUDIT COMMITTEE INVESTIGATION INTO OUR HISTORICAL STOCK OPTION PRACTICES AND RESULTING RESTATEMENTS MAY CONTINUE TO HAVE ADVERSE EFFECTS ON OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. The Audit Committee investigation into our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatement of our historical financial statements have required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses. The resulting restatements have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have recorded additional non-cash, stock-based compensation expense of $116 million for the periods from 1993 to 2005 (excluding the impact of related payroll and income taxes). See the “Explanatory Note” immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 and Note 2, “Restatements of Consolidated Financial Statements,” to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for further discussion. In addition, several lawsuits have been filed against us, our current directors and officers and certain of our former directors and officers relating to our historical stock option practices and related accounting. See Item 3 Legal Proceedings, for a more detailed description of these proceedings. We may become the subject of additional private or government actions regarding these matters in the future. These actions are in the preliminary stages, and their ultimate outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits will result in significant expenditures 16 Table of Contents and the continued diversion of our management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our business. All or a portion of any amount we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these claims may not be covered by insurance. JUDGMENT AND ESTIMATES UTILIZED BY US IN DETERMINING STOCK OPTION GRANT DATES AND RELATED ADJUSTMENTS MAY BE SUBJECT TO CHANGE DUE TO SUBSEQUENT SEC GUIDANCE OR OTHER DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS. In determining the restatement adjustments in connection with the stock option investigation, management used all reasonably available relevant information to form conclusions it believes are appropriate as to the most likely option granting actions that occurred, the dates when such actions occurred, and the determination of grant dates for financial accounting purposes based on when the requirements of the accounting standards were met. We considered various alternatives throughout the course of the review and restatement, and we believe the approaches used were the most appropriate, and the choices of measurement dates used in our review of stock option grant accounting and restatement of our financial statements were reasonable and appropriate in our circumstances. However, the SEC may issue additional guidance on disclosure requirements related to the financial impact of past stock option grant measurement date errors that may require us to amend this filing or other filings with the SEC to provide additional disclosures pursuant to such additional guidance. Any such circumstance could also lead to future delays in filing our subsequent SEC reports and delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN VOLATILITY OR A DECLINE IN OUR STOCK PRICE. Our future operating results will be subject to quarterly variations based upon a wide variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include: • the cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets addressed by our products; • our transition to a fab-lite strategy; • our increased dependence on outside foundries and their ability to meet our volume, quality, and delivery objectives, particularly during times of increasing demand; • inventory excesses or shortages due to reliance on third party manufacturers; • our compliance with U.S. trade and export laws and regulations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • ability of independent assembly contractors to meet our volume, quality, and delivery objectives; • success with disposal or restructuring activities, including disposition of our North Tyneside and Heilbronn facilities; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • possible delisting from NASDAQ Global Select Market; • third party intellectual property infringement claims; • the highly competitive nature of our markets; • the pace of technological change; • political and economic risks; • natural disasters or terrorist acts; • assessment of internal controls over financial reporting; 17 Table of Contents • ability to meet our debt obligations; • availability of additional financing; • our ability to maintain good relationships with our customers; • integration of new businesses or products; • our compliance with international, federal and state export, environmental, privacy and other regulations; • personnel changes; • business interruptions; • system integration disruptions; and • changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants. Any unfavorable changes in any of these factors could harm our operating results. We believe that our future sales will depend substantially on the success of our new products. Our new products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products or systems at their design stage. However, design wins may precede volume sales by a year or more. We may not be successful in achieving design wins or design wins may not result in future revenues, which depend in large part on the success of the customer’s end product or system. The average selling price of each of our products usually declines as individual products mature and competitors enter the market. To offset average selling price decreases, we rely primarily on reducing costs to manufacture those products, increasing unit sales to absorb fixed costs and introducing new, higher priced products which incorporate advanced features or integrated technologies to address new or emerging markets. Our operating results could be harmed if such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner. From time to time, our quarterly revenues and operating results can become more dependent upon orders booked and shipped within a given quarter and, accordingly, our quarterly results can become less predictable and subject to greater variability. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on the continued economic growth generally and of growth in various electronics industries that use semiconductors, including manufacturers of computers, telecommunications equipment, automotive electronics, industrial controls, consumer electronics, data networking equipment and military equipment. The semiconductor industry has the ability to supply more products than demand requires. Our ability to return to profitability will depend heavily upon a better supply and demand balance within the semiconductor industry. THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY CREATES FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical, characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has also experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The semiconductor industry faced severe business conditions with global semiconductor revenues for the industry declining 32% to $139 billion in 2001, compared to revenues in 2000. The semiconductor industry began to turn around in 2002 with global semiconductor sales increasing modestly by 1% to $141 billion. Global semiconductor sales increased 18% to $166 billion in 2003, 27% to $211 billion in 2004, 7% to $228 billion in 2005 and 9% to $248 billion in 2006. Atmel’s operating results have been harmed by industry-wide fluctuations in the demand for semiconductors, which resulted in under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity and declining gross margins. In the past we have recorded significant charges to recognize impairment in the value of our manufacturing equipment, the cost to reduce workforce, and other restructuring costs. Our business may be harmed in the future not only by cyclical conditions in the semiconductor industry as a whole but also by slower growth in any of the markets served by our products. 18 Table of Contents WE COULD EXPERIENCE DISRUPTION OF OUR BUSINESS AS WE TRANSITION TO A FAB-LITE STRATEGY. As part of our fab-lite strategy, we have reduced and plan to further reduce the number of our owned manufacturing facilities. In December 2005, we sold our Nantes, France fabrication facility and the related foundry activities, to XybyBus SAS. In July 2006, we sold our Grenoble, France subsidiary (including the fabrication facility in Grenoble) to e2v technologies plc. In December 2006, we announced the planned sale of our North Tyneside, United Kingdom and Heilbronn, Germany wafer fabrication facilities. On May 1, 2007, we announced the sale of our Irving, Texas, wafer fabrication facility. As a result of the sale (or planned sale) of such fabrication facilities, we will be increasingly relying on the utilization of third-party foundry manufacturing and assembly and test capacity. As part of such transition we must expand our foundry relationships by entering into new agreements with such third-party foundries. If such agreements are not completed on a timely basis, manufacturing of certain of our products could be disrupted, which would harm our business. In addition, difficulties in production yields can often occur when transitioning to a new third-party manufacturer. If such foundries fail to deliver quality products and components on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. Implementation of our new fab-lite strategy will expose us to the following risks: • reduced control over delivery schedules and product costs; • manufacturing costs that are higher than anticipated; • inability of our manufacturing subcontractors to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products and their unwillingness to devote adequate capacity to produce our products; • possible abandonment of fabrication processes by our manufacturing subcontractors for products that are strategically important to us; • decline in product quality and reliability; • inability to maintain continuing relationships with our suppliers; • restricted ability to meet customer demand when faced with product shortages; and • increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. If any of the above risks are realized, we could experience an interruption in our supply chain or an increase in costs, which could delay or decrease our revenue or harm our business. AS WE INCREASE DEPENDENCE ON OUTSIDE FOUNDRIES, SUCH FOUNDRIES MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS AND MAY NOT MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY OBJECTIVES OR MAY ABANDON FABRICATION PROCESSES THAT WE REQUIRE. We expect to increase our utilization of outside foundries to expand our capacity in the future, especially for high volume commodity type products and certain aggressive technology ASIC products. Reliance on outside foundries to fabricate wafers involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules, a potential lack of capacity, and a risk the subcontractor may abandon the fabrication processes we need from a strategic standpoint, even if the process is not economically viable. We hope to mitigate these risks with a strategy of qualifying multiple subcontractors. However, there can be no guarantee that any strategy will eliminate these risks. Additionally, since most of such outside foundries are located in foreign countries, we are subject to certain risks generally associated with contracting with foreign manufacturers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions and changes in tariff and freight rates. Accordingly, we may experience problems in timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents INCREASING DEPENDENCE ON THIRD PARTY MANUFACTURERS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS IN TIMES OF INCREASING DEMAND IN OUR INDUSTRY. We currently manufacture our products at our facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado; Heilbronn, Germany; Rousset, France; and North Tyneside, United Kingdom. In December 2006, we announced our plan to sell the Heilbronn and North Tyneside facilities to optimize our manufacturing operations as part of our adoption of a fab-lite strategy. In order to shift from a manufacturing-based business model to an outsourcing business model, we will need to substantially expand our foundry relationships. The terms on which we will be able to obtain wafer production for our products, and the timing and volume of such production will be substantially dependent on agreements to be negotiated with semiconductor foundries. We cannot be certain that the agreements we reach with such foundries will be on terms reasonable to us. Therefore, any agreements reached with semiconductor foundries may be short-term and possibly non-renewable, and hence provide less certainty regarding the supply and pricing of wafers for our products. During economic upturns in the semiconductor industry we will not be able to guarantee that our third party foundries will be able to increase manufacturing capacity to a level that meets demand for our products, which would prevent us from meeting increased customer demand and harm our business. Also during times of increased demand for our products, if such foundries are able to meet such demand, it may be at higher wafer prices, which would reduce our gross margins on such products or require us to offset the increased price by increasing prices for our customers, either of which would harm our business and operating results. AS A RESULT OF INCREASED DEPENDENCE ON THIRD PARTY MANUFACTURERS, WE MAY INCUR INVENTORY EXCESSES OR SHORTAGES As we increase our reliance on third party manufacturers and subcontractors, we acknowledge that the lead times required by such foundries have increased in recent years and is likely to increase in the future. However, market conditions and intense competition in the semiconductor industry require that we be prepared to ship products to our customers with much shorter lead times. Consequently, to have product inventory to meet potential customer purchase orders, we may have to place purchase orders for wafers from our manufacturers in advance of having firm purchase orders from our customers, which from time-to-time will cause us to have an excess or shortage of wafers for a particular product. If we do not have sufficient demand for our products and cannot cancel our current and future commitments without material impact, we may experience excess inventory, which will result in a write-off affecting gross margin and results of operations. If we cancel a purchase order, we may have to pay cancellation penalties based on the status of work in process or the proximity of the cancellation to the delivery date. As a result of the long lead-time for manufacturing wafers and the increase in “just in time” ordering by customers, semiconductor companies from time-to-time may need to record additional expense for the write-down of excess inventory. Significant write-downs of excess inventory could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, failure to order sufficient wafers would cause us to miss revenue opportunities and, if significant, could impact sales by our customers, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and thereby materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE LAWS RELATING TO TRADE AND EXPORT CONTROLS, THE VIOLATION OF WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS. For products and technology exported from the U.S. or otherwise subject to U.S. jurisdiction, we are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”), the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), U.S. Department of the Treasury. We have recently discovered shortcomings in our export compliance procedures. We are currently analyzing product shipments and technology transfers, working with U.S. government officials to ensure compliance with applicable U.S. export laws and regulations, and developing an enhanced export compliance system. A determination by the U.S. government that we have failed to comply with one or more of these export 20 Table of Contents controls or trade sanctions could result in civil or criminal penalties, including the imposition of significant fines, denial of export privileges, and debarment from U.S. participation in government contracts. Any one or more of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Our primary exposure relates to operating expenses in Europe, where a significant amount of our manufacturing is located. We have in the past entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency assets and liabilities. In addition, we have periodically hedged certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows. We do not plan to hedge against either of these risks in the foreseeable future, but if we should, our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our net income. In addition, our net income may be subject to greater foreign currency gains and losses on certain foreign currency assets and liabilities during times in which we have not entered into foreign exchange forward contracts. REVENUES AND COSTS DENOMINATED IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING RESULTS WITH CHANGES IN THESE FOREIGN CURRENCIES AGAINST THE DOLLAR. When we take an order denominated in a foreign currency we may receive fewer dollars than initially anticipated if that local currency weakens against the dollar before we collect our funds. Conversely, when we incur a cost denominated in a foreign currency we may pay more dollars than initially anticipated if that local currency strengthens against the dollar before we pay the costs. In addition to reducing revenues or increasing our costs, this risk can negatively affect our operating results. In Europe, where our significant operations have costs denominated in European currencies, a negative impact on expenses can be partially offset by a positive impact on revenues. Sales denominated in European currencies, and yen as a percentage of net revenues were 18% and 1% in 2006, 16% and 1% in 2005 and 22% and 1% in 2004, respectively. Operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies as a percentage of total operating expenses, primarily the euro, were 52% in 2006, 55% in 2005 and 56% in 2004. We also face the risk that our accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies could be devalued if such foreign currencies weaken quickly and significantly against the dollar. Conversely we face the risk that our accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies could increase in value if such foreign currencies strengthen against the dollar. We also face the risk that our accounts receivables denominated in foreign currencies will be devalued if such foreign currencies weaken quickly and significantly against the dollar. Approximately 26% and 23% of our accounts receivable are denominated in foreign currency as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We also face the risk that our accounts payable and debt obligations denominated in foreign currencies will increase if such foreign currencies strengthen quickly and significantly against the dollar. Approximately 48% and 46% of our accounts payable were denominated in foreign currency as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Approximately 60% of our debt obligations were denominated in foreign currency as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. WE DEPEND ON INDEPENDENT ASSEMBLY CONTRACTORS WHICH MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS AND WHICH MAY NOT MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY OBJECTIVES. We currently manufacture a majority of the wafers for our products at our fabrication facilities, and the wafers are then sorted and tested at our facilities. After wafer testing, we ship the wafers to one of our independent assembly contractors located in China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan or Thailand where the wafers are separated into die, packaged and, in some cases, tested. Our reliance on 21 Table of Contents independent contractors to assemble, package and test our products involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules, the potential lack of adequate capacity and discontinuance or phase-out of the contractors’ assembly processes. These independent contractors may not continue to assemble, package and test our products for a variety of reasons. Moreover, because our assembly contractors are located in foreign countries, we are subject to certain risks generally associated with contracting with foreign suppliers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, including export controls, and changes in tariff and freight rates. Accordingly, we may experience problems in timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DISPOSAL OR RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES. As part of our fab-lite strategy, in December 2006, we announced plans to sell our Heilbronn, Germany, and North Tyneside, United Kingdom, manufacturing facilities. However, reducing our wafer fabrication capacity involves significant potential costs and delays, particularly in Europe, where the extensive statutory protection of employees imposes substantial costs and delays on their employers when the market requires downsizing. Such costs and delays include compensation to employees and local government agencies, requirements and approvals of governmental and judicial bodies, and losses of or requirement to repay governmental subsidies. We may experience labor union objections or other difficulties while implementing a downsizing. Any such difficulties that we experience would harm our business and operating results, either by deterring needed downsizing or by the additional costs of accomplishing it in Europe relative to America or Asia. We continue to evaluate the existing restructuring and asset impairment reserves related to previously implemented restructuring plans. As a result, there may be additional restructuring charges or reversals of previously established reserves. However, we may incur additional restructuring and asset impairment charges in connection with any restructuring plans adopted in the future. Any such restructuring or asset impairment charges recorded in the future could significantly harm our business and operating results. See Notes 16 and 17 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO IMPLEMENT NEW MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGIES OR FAIL TO ACHIEVE ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURING YIELDS, OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE HARMED. Whether demand for semiconductors is rising or falling, we are constantly required by competitive pressures in the industry to successfully implement new manufacturing technologies in order to reduce the geometries of our semiconductors and produce more integrated circuits per wafer. We are developing processes that support effective feature sizes as small as 0.13-microns, and we are studying how to implement advanced manufacturing processes with even smaller feature sizes such as 0.065-microns. Fabrication of our integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. Whether through the use of our foundries or third party manufacturers, we may experience problems in achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of wafers, particularly during a transition in the manufacturing process technology for our products. We have previously experienced production delays and yield difficulties in connection with earlier expansions of our wafer fabrication capacity or transitions in manufacturing process technology. Production delays or difficulties in achieving acceptable yields at any of our fabrication facilities or at the fabrication facilities of our third party manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to obtain the additional cash from operations or external financing necessary to fund the implementation of new manufacturing technologies. WE HAVE NOT BEEN IN COMPLIANCE WITH SEC REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND NASDAQ LISTING REQUIREMENTS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ATTAIN COMPLIANCE WITH, OR THEREAFTER REMAIN IN COMPLIANCE WITH SEC REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND NASDAQ LISTING 22 Table of Contents REQUIREMENTS, THERE MAY BE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND OUR STOCKHOLDERS. As a consequence of the Audit Committee investigation into our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements of our financial statements, we have not been able to file our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis and continue to face the possibility of delisting of our stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. We have now filed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006. We were not able to file our Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 on a timely basis. See the “Explanatory Note” immediately preceding Part I, Item 1 and Note 2, “Restatements of Consolidated Financial Statements,” to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Form 10-K for further discussion. Until we have returned to full compliance with SEC reporting requirements and NASDAQ listing requirements, the possibility of a NASDAQ delisting exists. If this happens, the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock would be adversely affected. In addition, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our stock under federal securities laws, and we would not be able to allow our employees to exercise their outstanding options, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As a result of the delayed filing of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006, and March 31, 2007, as well as this Form 10-K, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others until one year from the date the last delinquent filing is made. We may use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. WE MAY FACE THIRD PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS THAT COULD BE COSTLY TO DEFEND AND RESULT IN LOSS OF SIGNIFICANT RIGHTS. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which on occasion have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights covering our products or processes. In the past, we have received specific allegations from major companies alleging that certain of our products infringe patents owned by such companies. In order to avoid the significant costs associated with our defense in litigation involving such claims, we may license the use of the technologies that are the subject of these claims from such companies and be required to make corresponding royalty payments, which may harm our operating results. We have in the past been involved in intellectual property infringement lawsuits, which harmed our operating results and are currently involved in intellectual property infringement lawsuits, which may harm our future operating results. We are currently involved in several intellectual property infringement lawsuits. Although we intend to vigorously defend against any such lawsuits, we may not prevail given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in patent and intellectual property litigation. Moreover, the cost of defending against such litigation, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, could be substantial, whatever the outcome. If any patent or other intellectual property claims against us are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies subject to these claims, and if we are unable to obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology, or design new technology to avoid infringement, our business and operating results may be significantly harmed. We have several cross-license agreements with other companies. In the future, it may be necessary or advantageous for us to obtain additional patent licenses from existing or other parties, but these license agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY SUFFER PRICE REDUCTIONS, REDUCED REVENUES, REDUCED GROSS MARGINS, AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price decline. Throughout our product line, we compete with a number of large 23 Table of Contents semiconductor manufacturers, such as AMD, Cypress, Freescale, Fujitsu, Hitachi, IBM, Infineon, Intel, LSI Logic, Microchip, Philips, Renesas, Samsung, Sharp, Spansion, STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments and Toshiba. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and management resources than we do. As we have introduced new products we are increasingly competing directly with these companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell products in specialized markets that our products address. We compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our products, including their speed, density, power usage, reliability and specialty packaging alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. During the last several years, we have experienced significant price competition in several business segments, especially in our nonvolatile memory segment for EPROM, Serial EEPROM, and Flash memory products, as well as in our commodity microcontrollers and smart cards. We expect continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors and new entrants, new technology and cyclical demand, which, among other factors, will likely maintain the recent trend of declining average selling prices for our products. In addition to the factors described above, our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the following: • our success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies and processes; • our ability to offer integrated solutions using our advanced nonvolatile memory process with other technologies; • the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their systems; • product introductions by our competitors; • the number and nature of our competitors in a given market; • the incumbency of our competitors at potential new customers; • our ability to minimize production costs by outsourcing our manufacturing, assembly and testing functions; and • general market and economic conditions. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO ADVERSE FINDINGS FROM ADDITIONAL AUDIT COMMITTEE INVESTIGATIONS INTO IMPROPER BUSINESS PRACTICES. In addition to the investigation into stock option granting practices, the Audit Committee of Atmel’s Board of Directors, with the assistance of independent legal counsel and forensic accountants, conducted independent investigations into (a) certain proposed investments in high yield securities that were being contemplated by our former Chief Executive Officer during the period from 1999 to 2002 and bank transfers related thereto, and (b) alleged payments from certain of our customers to employees at one of our Asian subsidiaries. The Audit Committee has completed its investigations, including its review of the impact on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, and prior periods, and concluded that there was no impact on such consolidated financial statements. However, we can give no assurances that subsequent information will not be discovered that may cause the Audit Committee to reopen such reviews. In addition, government agencies, including local authorities in Asia, may initiate their own review into these and related matters. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of such reviews, if any. An adverse finding in any of these matters could lead to future delays in filing our subsequent SEC reports and delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and result in additional management time being diverted and additional legal and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents WE FACE VARIOUS RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH A POTENTIAL CHANGE OF CONTROL OF OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS. Pursuant to the order of the Delaware Chancery Court, on May 18, 2007, Atmel held a Special Meeting of Stockholders to consider and vote on a proposal by George Perlegos, our former Chairman, President and CEO, to remove five members of our Board of Directors and to replace them with five persons nominated by Mr. Perlegos. On June 1, 2007, following final tabulation of votes and certification by IVS Associates, Inc., the independent inspector of elections for the Special Meeting, we announced that stockholders had rejected the proposal considered at the Special Meeting. Prior to the Special Meeting, Atmel also received a notice from Mr. Perlegos indicating his intent to nominate eight persons for election to our Board of Directors at our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on July 25, 2007. On June 5, 2007, Atmel received notice that Mr. Perlegos will not solicit proxies from Atmel’s shareholders as to any issue, including the makeup of Atmel’s Board of Directors, in connection with Atmel’s annual meeting to be held in July 2007. There can be no assurance that Atmel will not face another proxy contest in the future, which would be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. WE MUST KEEP PACE WITH TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE. The average selling prices of our products historically have decreased over the products’ lives and are expected to continue to do so. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products which compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. We are continually designing and commercializing new and improved products to maintain our competitive position. These new products typically are more technologically complex than their predecessors, and thus have increased potential for delays in their introduction. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including timely completion and introduction of new product designs, achievement of acceptable fabrication yields and market acceptance. Our development of new products and our customers’ decision to design them into their systems can take as long as three years, depending upon the complexity of the device and the application. Accordingly, new product development requires a long-term forecast of market trends and customer needs, and the successful introduction of our products may be adversely affected by competing products or by technologies serving the markets addressed by our products. Our qualification process involves multiple cycles of testing and improving a product’s functionality to ensure that our products operate in accordance with design specifications. If we experience delays in the introduction of new products, our future operating results could be harmed. In addition, new product introductions frequently depend on our development and implementation of new process technologies, and our future growth will depend in part upon the successful development and market acceptance of these process technologies. Our integrated solution products require more technically sophisticated sales and marketing personnel to market these products successfully to customers. We are developing new products with smaller feature sizes, the fabrication of which will be substantially more complex than fabrication of our current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our operating results will be harmed. Our new product development, process development, or marketing and sales efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve market acceptance, and price expectations for our new products may not be achieved, any of which could harm our business. OUR OPERATING RESULTS ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO VARIOUS POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS. Sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for 86%, 87% and 83% of net revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that revenues derived from international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues. International sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: • greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property; 25 Table of Contents • reduced flexibility and increased cost of staffing adjustments, particularly in France and Germany; • longer collection cycles; • potential unexpected changes in regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws, environmental and privacy regulations; and • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. Further, we purchase a significant portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers, and we incur labor and other operating costs in foreign currencies, particularly at our French, German and U.K. manufacturing facilities. As a result, our costs will fluctuate along with the currencies and general economic conditions in the countries in which we do business, which could harm our operating results. Approximately 81%, 83% and 76% of our net revenues in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, were denominated in U.S. dollars. Approximately 52%, 56% and 52% of net revenues were generated in Asia in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE HARMED BY NATURAL DISASTERS OR TERRORIST ACTS. Since the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon in 2001, certain insurance coverage has either been reduced or made subject to additional conditions by our insurance carriers, and we have not been able to maintain all necessary insurance coverage at reasonable cost. Instead, we have relied to a greater degree on self-insurance. For example, we now self-insure property losses up to $10 million per event. Our headquarters, some of our manufacturing facilities, the manufacturing facilities of third party foundries and some of our major vendors’ and customers’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults and in potential terrorist target areas. If a major earthquake or other disaster or a terrorist act impacts us and insurance coverage is unavailable for any reason, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment, we may suffer a temporary halt in our ability to manufacture and transport product and we could suffer damages of an amount sufficient to harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A LACK OF EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING COULD RESULT IN AN INABILITY TO ACCURATELY REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS, WHICH COULD LEAD TO A LOSS OF INVESTOR CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTS AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal controls. Evaluations of the effectiveness of our internal controls in the future may lead our management to determine that internal control over financial reporting is no longer effective. Such conclusions may result from our failure to implement controls for changes in our business, or deterioration in the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including a failure to implement effective new controls to address changes in our business could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. OUR DEBT LEVELS COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING, AND OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS WILL BE DEPENDENT UPON OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE. As of December 31, 2006, our total debt was $169 million compared to $388 million at December 31, 2005. The decrease is primarily a result of the redemption of the zero coupon convertible notes, due 2021. On May 23, 2006, substantially all of the convertible notes outstanding were redeemed for $144 million. The remaining balance 26 Table of Contents of $1 million was called by the Company in June 2006. Our long-term debt less current portion to equity ratio was 0.06 and 0.14 at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Increases in our debt-to-equity ratio could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Certain of our debt facilities contain terms that subject us to financial and other covenants. We were not in compliance with covenants requiring timely filing of U.S. GAAP financial statements as of December 31, 2006, and, as a result, requested waivers from our lenders to avoid default under these facilities. Waivers were received from all but one lender, and as a result of not receiving a waiver from that lender, we reclassified $23 million of non-current liabilities related to assets held for sale to current liabilities related to assets held for sale on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006. From time to time our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend upon our ability to raise additional financing and on our future performance and ability to generate substantial cash flow from operations, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet debt obligations or otherwise are obliged to repay any debt prior to its due date, our available cash would be depleted, perhaps seriously, and our ability to fund operations harmed. In addition, our ability to service long-term debt in the U.S. or to obtain cash for other needs from our foreign subsidiaries may be structurally impeded, as a substantial portion of our operations are conducted through our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash flow and ability to service debt are partially dependent upon the liquidity and earnings of our subsidiaries as well as the distribution of those earnings, or repayment of loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries, to the U.S. parent corporation. These foreign subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and may have limited or no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or any other form. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THAT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE. Although in July 2006 we sold our Grenoble, France, subsidiary and in December 2006 we announced our plan to sell the Heilbronn and North Tyneside fabrication facilities, we intend to continue to make capital investments to support new products and manufacturing processes that achieve manufacturing cost reductions and improved yields. Currently, we expect our total 2007 capital expenditures to be $70 to $92 million. We may seek additional equity or debt financing to fund operations or to fund other projects. The timing and amount of such capital requirements cannot be precisely determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including demand for products, product mix, changes in semiconductor industry conditions and competitive factors. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. PROBLEMS THAT WE EXPERIENCE WITH KEY CUSTOMERS OR DISTRIBUTORS MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to maintain close, satisfactory relationships with large customers is important to our business. A reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from our large customers would harm our business. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or reduced orders by any of our key customers, could harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, our customers may vary order levels significantly from period to period, and customers may not continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. We sell many of our products through distributors. Our distributors could experience financial difficulties or otherwise reduce or discontinue sales of our products. Our distributors could commence or increase sales of our competitors’ products. In any of these cases, our business could be harmed. In addition, in the short-term our revenues in Asia may decrease as we optimize our distributor base in Asia. It may take time for us to identify financially viable distributors and help them develop quality support services. This process may result in short-term revenue loss, particularly in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2007. There can be no assurances that we will be able to manage this optimization process in an efficient and timely manner. 27 Table of Contents WE ARE NOT PROTECTED BY LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of an early termination by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we will be able to rapidly replace that revenue source, which would harm our financial results. OUR FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE BUSINESSES OR PRODUCTS WE HAVE ACQUIRED COULD DISRUPT OR HARM OUR ONGOING BUSINESS. We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire additional, complementary businesses, facilities, products and technologies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends, in part, upon whether the integration of the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner. Moreover, successful acquisitions in the semiconductor industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries because such acquisitions require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. The difficulties of such integration may be increased by the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated, and the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures. The integration of operations following an acquisition requires the dedication of management resources that may distract attention from the day-to-day business, and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. The inability of management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transactions. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, WHICH COULD IMPOSE UNANTICIPATED REQUIREMENTS ON OUR BUSINESS IN THE FUTURE. ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CURRENT OR FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY SUBJECT US TO LIABILITY OR SUSPENSION OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor operations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect on our operations from environmental regulations, any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement may impose the need for additional capital equipment or other requirements. If for any reason we fail to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could be subject to substantial liability or our manufacturing operations could be suspended. We also could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. We record a liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs when we consider the costs to be probable and the amount of the costs can be reasonably estimated. The EU has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and printers, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. The deadline for the individual member states of the EU to enact the directive in their respective countries was August 13, 2004 (such legislation, together with the directive, the “WEEE Legislation”). Producers participating in the market became financially responsible for implementing these responsibilities beginning in August 2005. Our potential liability resulting from the WEEE Legislation may be substantial. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China and Japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. 28 Table of Contents WE DEPEND ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL, AND THE LOSS OF ANY KEY PERSONNEL MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and in the development of new products and processes. The competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees, none of whom is subject to an employment agreement for a specified term or a post-employment noncompetition agreement, could harm our business. BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, business interruption insurance may not be enough to compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. SYSTEM INTEGRATION DISRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We periodically make enhancements to our integrated financial and supply chain management systems. This process is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Operational disruptions during the course of this process or delays in the implementation of these enhancements could impact our operations. Our ability to forecast sales demand, ship products, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired due to these enhancements. PROVISIONS IN OUR RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION, BYLAWS AND PREFERRED SHARES RIGHTS AGREEMENT MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, voting rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions of those shares without the approval of our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, by making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. We also have a preferred shares rights agreement with Equiserve Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, dated as of September 4, 1996, amended and restated on October 18, 1999 and amended as of November 7, 2001, which gives our stockholders certain rights that would likely delay, defer or prevent a change of control of Atmel in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS FLUCTUATED IN THE PAST AND MAY CONTINUE TO FLUCTUATE IN THE FUTURE. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by factors such as the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, technological innovations by us or our competitors, quarterly variations in our results of operations, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business or relating to us specifically could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many high technology companies, often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. 29 Table of Contents ACCOUNTING FOR EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS USING THE FAIR VALUE METHOD COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR NET INCOME OR INCREASE OUR NET LOSS. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, which is a revision of SFAS No. 123 “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS No. 123”), and supersedes our previous accounting under APB No. 25. We adopted SFAS No. 123R effective January 1, 2006, using the modified prospective transition method and our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2006 are based on this method. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, our consolidated financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect the impact of SFAS No. 123R. We have elected to adopt FSP No. FAS 123(R)-3 to calculate our pool of windfall tax benefits. SFAS No. 123R requires companies to estimate the fair value of stock-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest will be recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in our consolidated statements of operations. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for stock-based awards to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB No. 25 as allowed under SFAS No. 123 (and further amended by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure — an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123”). Under the intrinsic value method, stock-based compensation expense was recognized in our consolidated statements of operations for stock based awards granted to employees when the exercise price of these awards was less than the fair market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. Loss from continuing operations in 2006 was increased by stock-based compensation expense of $8 million calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 123R. OUR FOREIGN PENSION PLANS ARE UNFUNDED, AND ANY REQUIREMENT TO FUND THESE PLANS IN THE FUTURE COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR CASH POSITION AND OPERATING CAPITAL. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all our French and German employees. Plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. Benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. Long-term pension benefits payable totaled $53 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005. The plans are non-funded, in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans. Benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. Cash funding for benefits to be paid for 2007 is expected to be approximately $1.1 million. Should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively impact our cash position and operating capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents 