ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Keep these trends, uncertainties and risks in mind when you read “forward-looking” statements elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in “forward-looking” statements. OUR REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO A VARIETY OF FACTORS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN VOLATILITY OR A DECLINE IN OUR STOCK PRICE. Our future operating results will be subject to quarterly variations based upon a wide variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. These factors include: • the cyclical nature of both the semiconductor industry and the markets addressed by our products • ability to meet our debt obligations • availability of additional financing • fluctuations in currency exchange rates • the extent of utilization of manufacturing capacity • fluctuations in manufacturing yields • the highly competitive nature of our markets • the pace of technological change • natural disasters or terrorist acts • political and economic risks • our ability to maintain good relationships with our customers • integration of new businesses or products • third party intellectual property infringement claims • ability of independent assembly contractors to meet our volume, quality, and delivery objectives • increased dependence on outside foundries and their ability to meet our volume, quality, and delivery objectives • assessment of internal controls over financial reporting • environmental regulations • personnel changes • business interruptions • system integration disruptions, and • changes in accounting rules, such as recording expenses for employee stock option grants. Any unfavorable changes in any of these factors could harm our operating results. 11 Table of Contents We believe that our future sales will depend substantially on the success of our new products. Our new products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products or systems at their design stage. However, design wins may precede volume sales by a year or more. We may not be successful in achieving design wins or design wins may not result in future revenues, which depend in large part on the success of the customer’s end product or system. The average selling price of each of our products usually declines as individual products mature and competitors enter the market. To offset average selling price decreases, we rely primarily on reducing costs to manufacture those products, increasing unit sales to absorb fixed costs and introducing new, higher priced products which incorporate advanced features or integrated technologies to address new or emerging markets. Our operating results could be harmed if such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner. From time to time, our quarterly revenues and operating results can become more dependent upon orders booked and shipped within a given quarter and, accordingly, our quarterly results can become less predictable and subject to greater variability. In addition, our future success will depend in large part on the resurgence of economic growth generally and of growth in various electronics industries that use semiconductors, including manufacturers of computers, telecommunications equipment, automotive electronics, industrial controls, consumer electronics, data networking equipment and military equipment. The semiconductor industry has the ability to supply more products than demand requires. Our ability to sustain the successful return to profitability experienced in the fourth quarter of 2005 will depend heavily upon a better supply and demand balance within the semiconductor industry. THE CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY CREATES FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical, characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has also experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The semiconductor industry faced severe business conditions with global semiconductor revenues for the industry declining 32% to approximately $139 billion in 2001, compared to revenues in 2000. The semiconductor industry began to turn around in 2002 with global semiconductor sales increasing modestly by 1% to approximately $141 billion. In 2003, global semiconductor sales increased 18% to $166 billion. Global semiconductor sales in 2004 increased 27% to $211 billion. In 2005, global semiconductor sales increased 7% to $228 billion. Atmel’s operating results have been harmed by industry-wide fluctuations in the demand for semiconductors, which resulted in under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity and declining gross margins. In the past we have recorded significant charges to recognize impairment in the value of our manufacturing equipment, the cost to reduce workforce, and other restructuring costs. Our business may be harmed in the future not only by cyclical conditions in the semiconductor industry as a whole but also by slower growth in any of the markets served by our products. OUR DEBT LEVELS COULD HARM OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING, AND OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS WILL BE DEPENDENT UPON OUR FUTURE PERFORMANCE. As of December 31, 2005, our long term convertible notes and long term debt less current portion was $133 million compared to $324 million at December 31, 2004. Our long-term debt (less current portion) to equity ratio was 0.1 and 0.3 at December 31, 2005 and 2004 respectively. Our current debt levels as well as any increase in our debt-to-equity ratio could adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend upon our ability to raise additional financing in the near term and on our future performance and ability to generate substantial cash flow from operations, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet debt obligations or otherwise are obliged to repay any debt prior to its due date, our available cash would be depleted, perhaps seriously, and our ability to fund operations harmed. In addition, our ability to service long-term debt in the U.S. or to obtain cash for other needs from our foreign subsidiaries may be structurally impeded, as a substantial portion of our operations are conducted through our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash flow and ability to service debt are partially dependent upon the liquidity and earnings of our subsidiaries as well as the distribution of those earnings, or repayment of loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries, to the U.S. parent corporation. These foreign subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and may have limited or no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts to us, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or any other form. However, the U.S. parent corporation owes much of our consolidated long-term debt, including our outstanding issue of convertible notes. At the option of the holders of our zero coupon convertible notes, due 2021 (“2021 Notes”) on May 23, 2006, May 23, 2011, and May 23, 2016, we may be required to repurchase the 2021 Notes at prices equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount through the date of repurchase. As a result of this repurchase feature these notes are included within current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accreted value on the 2021 Notes on May 23, 2006 is expected to be $145 million. We may elect to pay the repurchase price in cash, in shares of common stock or in any combination of the two. While we believe we will be successful in refinancing all debt before maturity, the terms of financing available to us now and in the future may not be attractive and the timing of the availability of capital is uncertain and is dependent, in part, on market conditions that are difficult to predict and are outside of our control. 12 Table of Contents WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES THAT COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Our primary exposure relates to operating expenses in Europe, where a significant amount of our manufacturing is located. We have in the past entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain foreign currency assets and liabilities. In addition, we have periodically hedged certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows. During 2005, we incurred a realized loss of $30 million as a result of anticipated and hedged balance sheet exposures that were larger than those that materialized. The significant movement in the dollar-euro foreign exchange rate, when applied to the difference between our balance sheet exposures and outstanding hedge contracts contributed to the unfavorable impact on “Interest and other expenses, net” on our Consolidated Statements of Operations for 2005. Average dollar-euro foreign exchange rates for cash flow hedge contracts were $1.30 for 2005 compared to the average dollar-euro foreign exchange transaction rate of $1.24 which resulted in an increase to cost of revenues of $18 million in 2005. We do not have plans to hedge against either of these risks in the foreseeable future, but if we should, our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our net income. In addition, our net income may be subject to greater foreign currency gains and losses on certain foreign currency assets and liabilities during times in which we have not entered into foreign exchange forward contracts. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THAT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE. Semiconductor companies like us, that maintain their own fabrication facilities have substantial capital requirements. We intend to continue to make capital investments to support new products and manufacturing processes that achieve manufacturing cost reductions and improved yields. Currently, we expect our total 2006 capital expenditures to be approximately $70 million. We may seek additional equity or debt financing to fund further enhancement of our wafer fabrication capacity or to fund other projects. The timing and amount of such capital requirements cannot be precisely determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including demand for products, product mix, changes in semiconductor industry conditions and competitive factors. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY ADJUST OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY IN LINE WITH DOWNTURNS IN OUR INDUSTRY OR INCREASES IN DEMAND, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED. We currently manufacture our products at our facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado; Heilbronn, Germany; Rousset, France; Grenoble, France; and North Tyneside, United Kingdom. During economic upturns in the semiconductor industry we may need to increase our manufacturing capacity to a level that meets demand for our products in order to achieve and maintain profitability. In light of losses incurred from 2001 through 2005, we may not be able to obtain from external sources the additional financing necessary to fund the expansion of our manufacturing facilities or the implementation of new manufacturing technologies. If we cannot expand our capacity on a timely basis during economic upturns in the semiconductor industry, we could experience significant capacity constraints that would prevent us from meeting increased customer demand, which would also harm our business. During economic downturns in our industry, expensive manufacturing machinery may be underutilized or may need to be sold off, possibly at significantly discounted prices, in order to reduce costs, although we may continue to be liable to make payments on debt incurred to finance the purchase of such equipment. At the same time, employee and other manufacturing costs may need to be reduced. Also, during economic downturns in our industry we may have to reduce our wafer fabrication capacity in order to reduce costs. However, reducing our wafer fabrication capacity involves significant potential costs and delays, particularly in Europe, where we have substantial manufacturing facilities and where the extensive statutory protection of employees imposes substantial costs and delays on their employers when the market requires downsizing. Such costs and delays include compensation to employees and local government agencies, requirements and approvals of governmental and judicial bodies, and losses of governmental subsidies. We may experience labor union objections or other difficulties while implementing a downsizing. Any such difficulties that we experience would harm our business and operating results, either by deterring needed downsizing or by the additional costs of accomplishing it in Europe relative to America or Asia. On December 6, 2005, we sold our Nantes, France fabrication facility, and the related foundry activities, to XbyBus SAS, resulting in a loss on sale of approximately $11 million (see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The facility was owned by us since 1998 and was comprised of five buildings totaling 131,000 square feet, manufacturing BiCMOS, CMOS and non-volatile technologies. The facility employed a total of 603 persons, of which 284 employees were retained by us and the remaining 319 manufacturing employees were transferred to XbyBus SAS. 13 Table of Contents In January 2000, we acquired the Irving, Texas wafer fabrication intending to commence commercial production in the second half of 2002. However, given the market conditions, we reassessed our overall manufacturing capacity against potential anticipated demand and decided to close the facility in 2002. The facility was placed on the market in August 2002. While this facility was classified as held for sale, nearly all of the fabrication equipment was either re-deployed to other manufacturing facilities owned by us or sold. We have recorded asset impairment charges in the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2005 to write down asset values to the lower of their then fair value or original net book value. Such writedowns for impairment were based on management’s estimates which considered an independent appraisal, among other factors, in determining fair market value. We continue to evaluate the existing restructuring and asset impairment reserves related to previously implemented restructuring plans. As a result, there may be additional restructuring charges or reversals of previously established reserves. However, we may incur additional restructuring and asset impairment charges in connection with any restructuring plans adopted in the future. Any such restructuring or asset impairment charges recorded in the future could significantly harm our business and operating results. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO EFFECTIVELY UTILIZE OUR WAFER MANUFACTURING CAPACITY AND FAIL TO ACHIEVE ACCEPTABLE MANUFACTURING YIELDS, OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE HARMED. Whether demand for semiconductors is rising or falling, we are constantly required by competitive pressures in the industry to successfully implement new manufacturing technologies in order to reduce the geometries of our semiconductors and produce more integrated circuits per wafer. We are developing processes that support effective feature sizes as small as 0.13-microns, and we are studying how to implement advanced manufacturing processes with even smaller feature sizes such as 0.065-microns. Fabrication of our integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process, requiring production in a tightly controlled, clean environment. Minute impurities, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to be nonfunctional. We may experience problems in achieving acceptable yields in the manufacture of wafers, particularly when we expand our manufacturing capacity or during a transition in the manufacturing process technology that we use. We have previously experienced production delays and yield difficulties in connection with earlier expansions of our wafer fabrication capacity or transitions in manufacturing process technology. Production delays or difficulties in achieving acceptable yields at any of our fabrication facilities could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to obtain the additional cash from operations or external financing necessary to fund the implementation of new manufacturing technologies. OUR MARKETS ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND IF WE DO NOT COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, WE MAY SUFFER PRICE REDUCTIONS, REDUCED REVENUES, REDUCED GROSS MARGINS, AND LOSS OF MARKET SHARE. We compete in markets that are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence and price decline. Throughout our product line, we compete with a number of large semiconductor manufacturers, such as AMD, Freescale, Fujitsu, Hitachi, IBM, Infineon, Intel, LSI Logic, Microchip, Philips, Samsung, Sharp, Spansion, STMicroelectronics, Texas Instruments and Toshiba. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and management resources than we do. As we have introduced new products we are increasingly competing directly with these companies, and we may not be able to compete effectively. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell products in specialized markets that our products address. We compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our products, including their speed, density, power usage, reliability and specialty packaging alternatives, as well as on price and product availability. During the last several years, we have experienced significant price competition in several business segments, especially in our nonvolatile memory segment for EPROM, Serial EEPROM, and Flash memory products, as well as in our commodity microcontrollers and smart cards. We expect continuing competitive pressures in our markets from existing competitors and new entrants, new technology and cyclical demand, which, among other factors, will likely maintain the recent trend of declining average selling prices for our products. 14 Table of Contents In addition to the factors described above, our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the following: • our success in designing and manufacturing new products that implement new technologies and processes • our ability to offer integrated solutions using our advanced nonvolatile memory process with other technologies • the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their systems • product introductions by our competitors • the number and nature of our competitors in a given market • the incumbency of our competitors at potential new customers, and • general market and economic conditions. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. WE MUST KEEP PACE WITH TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE TO REMAIN COMPETITIVE. The average selling prices of our products historically have decreased over the products’ lives and are expected to continue to do so. As a result, our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products which compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. We are continually designing and commercializing new and improved products to maintain our competitive position. These new products typically are more technologically complex than their predecessors, and thus have increased potential for delays in their introduction. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including timely completion and introduction of new product designs, achievement of acceptable fabrication yields and market acceptance. Our development of new products and our customers’ decision to design them into their systems can take as long as three years, depending upon the complexity of the device and the application. Accordingly, new product development requires a long-term forecast of market trends and customer needs, and the successful introduction of our products may be adversely affected by competing products or by technologies serving the markets addressed by our products. Our qualification process involves multiple cycles of testing and improving a product’s functionality to ensure that our products operate in accordance with design specifications. If we experience delays in the introduction of new products, our future operating results could be harmed. In addition, new product introductions frequently depend on our development and implementation of new process technologies, and our future growth will depend in part upon the successful development and market acceptance of these process technologies. Our integrated solution products require more technically sophisticated sales and marketing personnel to market these products successfully to customers. We are developing new products with smaller feature sizes, the fabrication of which will be substantially more complex than fabrication of our current products. If we are unable to design, develop, manufacture, market and sell new products successfully, our operating results will be harmed. Our new product development, process development, or marketing and sales efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve market acceptance, and price expectations for our new products may not be achieved, any of which could harm our business. OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE HARMED BY NATURAL DISASTERS OR TERRORIST ACTS. Since the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon in 2001, certain insurance coverage has either been reduced or made subject to additional conditions by our insurance carriers, and we have not been able to maintain all necessary insurance coverage at reasonable cost. Instead, we have relied to a greater degree on self-insurance. For example, we now self-insure property losses up to $10 million per event. Our headquarters, some manufacturing facilities and some of our major vendors’ and customers’ facilities are located near major earthquake faults and in potential terrorist target areas. If a major earthquake or other disaster or a terrorist act impacts us and insurance coverage is unavailable for any reason, we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment, we may suffer a temporary halt in our ability to manufacture and transport product and we could suffer damages of an amount sufficient to harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents OUR OPERATING RESULTS ARE HIGHLY DEPENDENT ON OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS, WHICH EXPOSES US TO VARIOUS POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS. Sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 86%, 83% and 82% of net revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003. We expect that revenues derived from international sales will continue to represent a significant portion of net revenues. International sales and operations are subject to a variety of risks, including: • greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property • reduced flexibility and increased cost of staffing adjustments, particularly in France and Germany • longer collection cycles • potential unexpected changes in regulatory practices, including export license requirements, trade barriers, tariffs and tax laws, and • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. Further, we purchase a significant portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers, and we incur labor and other operating costs in foreign currencies, particularly at our French, German and U.K. manufacturing facilities. As a result, our costs will fluctuate along with the currencies and general economic conditions in the countries in which we do business, which could harm our operating results. Approximately 78%, 73% and 72% of our net revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were denominated in U.S. dollars. In 1998, business conditions in Asia were severely affected by banking and currency issues that adversely affected our operating results. Approximately 53%, 48% and 49% of net revenues were generated in Asia in 2005, 2004 and 2003. REVENUES AND COSTS DENOMINATED IN FOREIGN CURRENCIES COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING RESULTS WITH CHANGES IN THESE FOREIGN CURRENCIES AGAINST THE DOLLAR. When we take an order denominated in a foreign currency we may receive fewer dollars than initially anticipated if that local currency weakens against the dollar before we collect our funds. Conversely, when we incur a cost denominated in a foreign currency we may pay more dollars than initially anticipated if that local currency strengthens against the dollar before we pay the costs. In addition to reducing revenues or increasing our costs, this risk can negatively affect our operating results. In Europe, where our significant operations have costs denominated in European currencies, a negative impact on expenses can be partially offset by a positive impact on revenues. Sales denominated in European currencies and yen as a percentage of net revenues were 21% and 1% in 2005, 25% and 1% in 2004 and 26% and 2% in 2003, respectively. Operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies as a percentage of total operating expenses, primarily the euro, were approximately 58% in 2005, 59% in 2004 and 53% in 2003. We also face the risk that our accounts receivable denominated in foreign currencies could be devalued if such foreign currencies weaken quickly and significantly against the dollar. Conversely we face the risk that our accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies could increase in value if such foreign currencies strengthen against the dollar. PROBLEMS THAT WE EXPERIENCE WITH KEY CUSTOMERS OR DISTRIBUTORS MAY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to maintain close, satisfactory relationships with large customers is important to our business. A reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from our large customers would harm our business. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or reduced orders by any of our key customers, could harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, our customers may vary order levels significantly from period to period, and customers may not continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. We sell many of our products through distributors. Our distributors could experience financial difficulties or otherwise reduce or discontinue sales of our products. Our distributors could commence or increase sales of our competitors’ products. In any of these cases, our business could be harmed. 16 Table of Contents WE ARE NOT PROTECTED BY LONG-TERM CONTRACTS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers, and we cannot be certain as to future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into a long-term contract, the contract is generally terminable at the convenience of the customer. In the event of an early termination by one of our major customers, it is unlikely that we will be able to rapidly replace that revenue source, which would harm our financial results. OUR FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE BUSINESSES OR PRODUCTS WE HAVE ACQUIRED COULD DISRUPT OR HARM OUR ONGOING BUSINESS. We have from time to time acquired, and may in the future acquire additional, complementary businesses, products and technologies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an acquisition depends, in part, upon whether the integration of the acquired business, products or technology is accomplished in an efficient and effective manner. Moreover, successful acquisitions in the semiconductor industry may be more difficult to accomplish than in other industries because such acquisitions require, among other things, integration of product offerings, manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. The difficulties of such integration may be increased by the need to coordinate geographically separated organizations, the complexity of the technologies being integrated, and the necessity of integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining two different corporate cultures. The integration of operations following an acquisition requires the dedication of management resources that may distract attention from the day-to-day business, and may disrupt key research and development, marketing or sales efforts. The inability of management to successfully integrate any future acquisition could harm our business. Furthermore, products acquired in connection with acquisitions may not gain acceptance in our markets, and we may not achieve the anticipated or desired benefits of such transactions. WE MAY FACE THIRD PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS THAT COULD BE COSTLY TO DEFEND AND RESULT IN LOSS OF SIGNIFICANT RIGHTS. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions, which on occasion have resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights covering our products or processes. In the past, we have received specific allegations from major companies alleging that certain of our products infringe patents owned by such companies. In order to avoid the significant costs associated with our defense in litigation involving such claims, we may license the use of the technologies that are the subject of these claims from such companies and be required to make corresponding royalty payments, which may harm our operating results. We have in the past been involved in intellectual property infringement lawsuits, which harmed our operating results and are currently involved in intellectual property infringement lawsuits, which may harm our future operating results. Although we intend to vigorously defend against any such lawsuits, we may not prevail given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in patent and intellectual property litigation. Moreover, the cost of defending against such litigation, in terms of management time and attention, legal fees and product delays, could be substantial, whatever the outcome. If any patent or other intellectual property claims against us are successful, we may be prohibited from using the technologies subject to these claims, and if we are unable to obtain a license on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology, or design new technology to avoid infringement, our business and operating results may be significantly harmed. We have several cross-license agreements with other companies. In the future, it may be necessary or advantageous for us to obtain additional patent licenses from existing or other parties, but these license agreements may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. WE DEPEND ON INDEPENDENT ASSEMBLY CONTRACTORS WHICH MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS AND WHICH MAY NOT MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY OBJECTIVES. We manufacture wafers for our products at our fabrication facilities, and the wafers are then sorted and tested at our facilities. After wafer testing, we ship the wafers to one of our independent assembly contractors located in China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines, South Korea, Taiwan or Thailand where the wafers are separated into die, packaged and, in some cases, tested. Our reliance on independent contractors to assemble, package and test our products involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules, the potential lack of adequate capacity and discontinuance or phase-out of the contractors’ assembly processes. These independent contractors may not continue to assemble, package and test our products for a variety of reasons. Moreover, because our assembly contractors are located in foreign countries, we are subject to certain risks generally associated with contracting with foreign suppliers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions and changes in tariff and freight rates. Accordingly, we may experience problems in timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents WE EXPECT TO INCREASE DEPENDENCE ON OUTSIDE FOUNDRIES WHICH MAY NOT HAVE ADEQUATE CAPACITY TO FULFILL OUR NEEDS AND WHICH MAY NOT MEET OUR QUALITY AND DELIVERY OBJECTIVES OR WHICH MAY ABANDON NEEDED FABRICATION PROCESSES. We expect to increase our utilization of outside foundries to expand our capacity in the future, especially for high volume commodity type products and certain aggressive technology ASIC products. Reliance on outside foundries to fabricate wafers involves significant risks, including reduced control over quality and delivery schedules, a potential lack of capacity, and a risk the subcontractor may abandon the fabrication processes we need, even if the process is not economically viable. We hope to mitigate these risks with a strategy of qualifying multiple subcontractors. However, there can be no guarantee that any strategy will eliminate these risks. Additionally, since most of such outside foundries are located in foreign countries, we are subject to certain risks generally associated with contracting with foreign manufacturers, including currency exchange fluctuations, political and economic instability, trade restrictions and changes in tariff and freight rates. Accordingly, we may experience problems in timelines and the adequacy or quality of product deliveries, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A LACK OF EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING COULD RESULT IN AN INABILITY TO ACCURATELY REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS, WHICH COULD LEAD TO A LOSS OF INVESTOR CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTS AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, deficiencies in our internal controls. For example, in connection with our management’s evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, management identified two control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses. Although these control deficiencies were remediated as of December 31, 2005 (as more fully described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), evaluations of the effectiveness of our internal controls in the future may lead our management to determine that internal control over financial reporting is no longer effective. Such conclusions may result from our failure to implement controls for changes in our business, or a deterioration in the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures. A failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, including a failure to implement effective new controls to address changes in our business could result in a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, WHICH COULD IMPOSE UNANTICIPATED REQUIREMENTS ON OUR BUSINESS IN THE FUTURE. ANY FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CURRENT OR FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY SUBJECT US TO LIABILITY OR SUSPENSION OF OUR MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS. We are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our manufacturing processes. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of semiconductor operations. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect on our operations from environmental regulations, any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement may impose the need for additional capital equipment or other requirements. If for any reason we fail to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances under present or future regulations, we could be subject to substantial liability or our manufacturing operations could be suspended. WE DEPEND ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL, AND THE LOSS OF ANY KEY PERSONNEL MAY SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our future success depends in large part on the continued service of our key technical and management personnel, and on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of existing products and in the development of new products and processes. The competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees, none of whom is subject to an employment agreement for a specified term or a post-employment non-competition agreement, could harm our business. BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, business interruption insurance may not be enough to compensate us for losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. 18 Table of Contents SYSTEM INTEGRATION DISRUPTIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. We periodically make enhancements to our integrated financial and supply chain management systems. This process is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Operational disruptions during the course of this process or delays in the implementation of these enhancements could impact our operations. Our ability to forecast sales demand, ship products, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired due to these enhancements. PROVISIONS IN OUR RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION, BYLAWS AND PREFERRED SHARES RIGHTS AGREEMENT MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, voting rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions of those shares without the approval of our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, by making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We have no present plans to issue shares of preferred stock. We also have a preferred shares rights agreement with Equiserve Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, dated as of September 4, 1996, amended and restated on October 18, 1999 and amended as of November 7, 2001, which gives our stockholders certain rights that would likely delay, defer or prevent a change of control of Atmel in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS FLUCTUATED IN THE PAST AND MAY CONTINUE TO FLUCTUATE IN THE FUTURE. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by factors such as the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors, technological innovations by us or our competitors, quarterly variations in our results of operations, changes in earnings estimates by market analysts and general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. Statements or changes in opinions, ratings, or earnings estimates made by brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the market in which we do business or relating to us specifically could result in an immediate and adverse effect on the market price of our stock. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices for many high technology companies, often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. ACCOUNTING FOR EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS USING THE FAIR VALUE METHOD COULD SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCE OUR NET INCOME. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R “Share Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”). SFAS No. 123R is a revision of SFAS No. 123 “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS No. 123”) SFAS No. 123R supersedes our previous accounting under Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) No. 25 “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees” (“APB No. 25”) for the periods beginning in 2006. We will adopt SFAS No. 123R effective January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective transition method. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, our Consolidated Financial Statements for prior periods will not be restated to reflect the impact of SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No. 123R requires companies to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest will be recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for stock-based awards to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB No. 25 as allowed under SFAS No. 123 (and further amended by SFAS No. 148). Under the intrinsic value method, no stock-based compensation expense had been recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock based awards granted to employees, because the exercise price of these awards equaled the fair market value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. We estimate that income from operations in 2006 will be reduced by additional stock-based compensation expense ranging from $12 million to $16 million due to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. However, the actual impact of adopting SFAS No. 123R in 2006 could differ from this estimate depending upon the number and timing of options granted during 2006, as well as their vesting period, vesting criteria and other assumptions that impact the Black-Scholes option pricing model. As such, actual stock-based compensation expense may differ materially from this estimate. 19 Table of Contents OUR FOREIGN PENSION PLANS ARE UNFUNDED, AND ANY REQUIREMENT TO FUND THESE PLANS IN THE FUTURE COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR CASH POSITION AND OPERATING CAPITAL. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all our French and German employees. Plan benefits are managed in accordance with local statutory requirements. Benefits are based on years of service and employee compensation levels. Long term pension benefits payable totaled $44 million and $42 million at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The plans are non-funded, in compliance with local statutory regulations, and we have no immediate intention of funding these plans. Benefits are paid when amounts become due, commencing when participants retire. Cash funding for benefits to be paid for 2006 is expected to be approximately $1 million. Should legislative regulations require complete or partial funding of these plans in the future, it could negatively impact our cash position and operating capital. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 