ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THERE ARE CERTAIN PRINCIPAL INTEREST RATE AND CREDIT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CONSUMER AND COMMERCIAL LENDING. A certain degree of credit risk is inherent in the Banks' various lending activities. The Banks offer fixed and adjustable interest rates on loans, with terms of up to 30 years. Although the majority of residential mortgage loans the Banks originate are fixed-rate, adjustable rate mortgage ("ARM") loans increase the responsiveness of the Banks' loan portfolios to changes in market interest rates. However, ARM loans generally carry lower initial interest rates than fixed-rate loans. Accordingly, they may be less profitable than fixed-rate loans during the initial interest rate period. In addition, since they are more responsive to changes in market interest rates than fixed-rate loans, ARM loans can increase the possibility of delinquencies in periods of high interest rates. The Banks also originate loans secured by mortgages on commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate. Since these loans usually are larger than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, they generally involve greater risks than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. In addition, since customers' ability to repay those loans often is dependent on operating and managing those properties successfully, adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy generally can impact repayment more severely than loans secured by one-to-four family residential 23 properties. Moreover, the commercial real estate business is subject to downturns, overbuilding, and local economic conditions. The Banks also make construction loans for residences and commercial buildings, as well as on unimproved property. While these loans also enable the Banks to increase the interest rate sensitivity of their loan portfolios and receive higher yields than those obtainable on permanent residential mortgage loans, the higher yields correspond to the higher risks perceived to be associated with construction lending. Those include risks associated generally with loans on the type of property securing the loan. Consistent with industry practice, the Banks sometimes fund the interest on a construction loan by including the interest as part of the total loan. Moreover, commercial construction lending often involves disbursing substantial funds with repayment dependent largely on the success of the ultimate project instead of the borrower's or guarantor's ability to repay. Again, adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy generally can impact repayment more severely than loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties. In the event of slow economic conditions or deterioration in commercial and real estate markets, we would expect increased nonperforming assets, credit losses, and provisions for loan losses. A PORTION OF OUR INCOME IS SUBJECT TO MARKET VALUATION RISKS. A significant portion of the fee income we earn in our wealth advisory, corporate retirement services, and asset management businesses is based upon market valuations of securities we hold for clients. Accordingly, downturns in these valuations can adversely effect that fee income. WE FACE INCREASING COMPETITION FOR DEPOSITS, LOANS, AND ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT. The Banks compete for deposits, loans, and assets under management. Many of the Banks' competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Banks. These disparities have been accelerated with increasing consolidation in the financial services industry. Savings banks, savings and loan associations, and commercial banks located in the Banks' principal market areas historically have provided the most direct competition for deposits. Dealers in government securities, deposit brokers, and credit card, direct, and internet-based financial institutions outside of the Banks' principal market areas also provide competition for deposits. Savings banks, savings and loan associations, commercial banks, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders provide the principal competition for loans. This competition can increase the rates the Banks pay to attract deposits and reduce the interest rates they can charge on loans, and impact the Banks' ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. Banks, trust companies, investment advisers, mutual fund companies, and insurance companies provide the Banks' principal competition for trust and asset management business. WE ARE SUBJECT TO REGULATORY RESTRICTIONS. We and our subsidiaries are subject to a variety of regulatory restrictions in conducting business by federal and state authorities. These include restrictions imposed by the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the Federal Reserve Act, the Home Owners' Loan Act, and a variety of federal and state consumer protection laws. See "Supervision and Regulation." 24 OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND BYLAWS AND DELAWARE LAW INCLUDE CERTAIN ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS. In addition to the regulations described under "Supervision and Regulation" above, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware's General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control of us. Those provisions include a classified Board of Directors, special provisions for notice to us for shareholders to nominate directors, and our ability to issue up to 1 million shares of preferred stock and 150 million shares of common stock. These authorized but unissued shares provide us desirable flexibility for possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, but could also delay or hinder an unsolicited acquisition of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 