Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the immediately succeeding risk factor. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in Western Pennsylvania because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as us are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and the fair value of the derivatives carried on our balance sheet, derivative hedge effectiveness testing and the amount of ineffectiveness recognized in our earnings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. There are increased risks involved with multi-family residential, commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by existing multi-family residential and commercial real estate. In addition, from time to time we originate loans for the construction of multi-family residential real estate and land acquisition and development loans. Multi-family residential, commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small to medium businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home improvement loans, home equity loans, education loans and loans secured by automobiles, boats, mobile homes, recreational vehicles and other personal property. Although commercial business loans and leases and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interests rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. Our allowance for losses on loans and leases may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans and leases. There can be no assurance that any future declines in real estate market conditions, general economic conditions or changes in regulatory policies will not require us to increase our allowance for loan and lease losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 32 Table of Contents We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. We and our banking subsidiary are subject to capital and other requirements which restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders depends to a large extent upon the dividends we receive from ESB Bank. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania and federal laws and regulations. In addition, ESB Bank must maintain certain capital levels, which may restrict the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our articles of incorporation do not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of the Company or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. If Our Investment in the Common Stock the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired or as Permanently Impaired, Our Earnings and Stockholders’ Equity Could Decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Pittsburgh. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the FHLB System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB of Pittsburgh’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLB of Pittsburgh common stock as of December 31, 2010 was $26.1 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLB of Pittsburgh common stock. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the FHLB System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capital of a FHLB, including the FHLB of Pittsburgh, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. In December of 2008, the FHLB notified member banks that it was suspending dividend payments and the repurchase of capital stock. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLB of Pittsburgh common stock could be impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. 33 Table of Contents Any Future Increases in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Insurance Premiums or Special Assessments Will Adversely Impact Our Earnings. In May 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution. We recorded an expense of approximately $891,000 during the year ended December 31, 2009, to reflect the special assessment. Any further special assessments that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation general insurance premium expense has increased compared to prior periods. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also issued a final rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. We prepaid $6.7 million of our assessments on December 30, 2009, based on our deposits and assessment rate as of September 30, 2009. The prepaid balance will be reduced by the actual expense for our quarterly assessments, until the balance is exhausted. Depending on how our actual assessments compare to the estimated assessments, the prepaid balance may be exhausted earlier than or later than the planned three year time period. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation recently amended its deposit insurance regulations (1) to change the assessment base for insurance from domestic deposits to average assets minus average tangible equity and (2) to lower overall assessment rates. The revised assessment rates are between 2.5 to 9 basis points for banks in the lowest risk category and between 30 to 45 basis points for banks in the highest risk category. The amendments will become effective for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011 with the new assessment methodology being reflected in the premium invoices due September 30, 2011. The Requirement to Account for Certain Assets at Estimated Fair Value, and a Proposal to Account for Additional Financial Assets and Liabilities at Estimated Fair Value, May Adversely Affect Our Stockholders’ Equity and Results of Operations. We report certain assets, including securities, at fair value, and a recent proposal would require us to report nearly all of our financial assets and liabilities at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Under current accounting requirements, elevated delinquencies, defaults, and estimated losses from the disposition of collateral in our mortgage-backed securities portfolio may require us to recognize additional other-than-temporary impairment in future periods with respect to our securities portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in the estimated fair value of the asset and our estimate of the anticipated recovery period. Under proposed accounting requirements, we may be required to record reductions in the fair value of nearly all of our financial assets and liabilities (including loans) either through a charge to net income or through a reduction to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Accordingly, we could be required to record charges on assets such as loans where we have no intention to sell the loan and expect to receive repayment in full on the loan. This could result in a decrease in net income, or a decrease in our stockholders’ equity, or both. We Operate in a Highly Regulated Environment and We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in Laws and Regulations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS (until jurisdiction is transferred to the Federal Reserve Board in July 2011), the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and by the FDIC. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Recently Enacted Regulatory Reform May Have a Material Impact on Our Operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that, among other things, imposes new restrictions and an expanded framework of regulatory oversight for financial institutions 34 Table of Contents and their holding companies. Under the new law, the Company’s primary regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, will be eliminated. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, which will have the authority to promulgate new regulations governing the Company that will impose additional capital requirements and may result in additional restrictions on investments and other holding company activities. The law also creates a new consumer financial protection bureau that will have the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this independent bureau could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered financial institutions will be reduced. In addition, regulation mandated by the new law could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices which may have a material impact on our operations. Because the regulations under the new law are still being developed, we cannot determine the full impact on our business and operations at this time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 35 Table of Contents 