Item 1A. Risk Factors The normal course of business exposes us to a variety of operational, reputational, legal, and regulatory risks, which we summarize below. All of these risks could affect our financial performance and condition adversely. We are subject to credit risk. This risk is associated primarily with our two subsidiary depository institutions: WTC and WTFSB (collectively, the banks). When we make a loan through the banks, we make subjective judgments about a borrower’s ability to repay. No matter how financially sound a client or lending decision may seem, a borrower’s ability to repay can be affected adversely by economic changes and other external factors. If borrowers do not repay their loans, our levels of nonperforming assets, loan losses, and the provision for loan losses could increase. Adverse economic conditions, especially in the mid-Atlantic region, can increase the degree of repayment risk inherent in our loan portfolio. We do most of our lending in the mid-Atlantic region. Economic conditions in this region could affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Adverse conditions also could reduce the value of assets, such as property or securities, that borrowers use as collateral. A reduction in the value of collateral could affect our ability to collect the balance of a loan if the borrower defaults. We have a concentration of commercial loans that makes up 74% of our total loan portfolio. Some of the commercial loans we make carry a higher degree of repayment risk than others. The commercial real estate/construction and commercial mortgage loans we make may carry a higher degree of repayment risk than other types of loans. The commercial real estate business is subject to downturns, overbuilding, and economic conditions. Adverse conditions in the real estate market, or in the economy in general, can affect the repayment ability of these borrowers more severely than other types of borrowers. Commercial real estate/construction loans, which we make for residential and commercial properties and for unimproved land, may carry a higher degree of repayment risk than other types of loans, especially when the associated projects are not generating income. Repayment of these types of loans often depends on the ultimate success of the project, not on the borrower’s or guarantor’s ability to repay. In addition, consistent with industry practice, we sometimes fund the interest payments on a commercial construction loan by including the interest as part of the total loan. This increases the total amount of the borrower’s loan. We have a concentration in commercial real estate/construction loans, which comprised 22% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Within the commercial real estate/construction portfolio, we have a geographic concentration, with projects in Delaware accounting for 59% of the portfolio. We experienced increased losses from this portfolio in 2009. Further deterioration of this portfolio could result in an increase in nonperforming loans that could lead to a loss of earnings, a higher loan loss provision, and higher charge-offs, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Commercial mortgage loans may be riskier than those for one-to-four family residences. Commercial mortgage loans are typically larger than loans for one-to-four family residential properties. In addition, the repayment of commercial mortgage loans typically depends on successful property operation and management or, in the case of owner-occupied properties, successful operation of the underlying business. We have a concentration in commercial mortgage loans, which comprised 23% of our total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Approximately 57% of our commercial mortgage loans were for properties in Delaware. Deterioration of this portfolio could result in an increase in nonperforming loans that could lead to a loss of earnings, a higher loan loss provision, and higher charge-offs, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Consumer loans may carry a higher degree of repayment risk than residential mortgage loans, particularly when the consumer loan is unsecured. Repayment of a consumer loan typically depends on the borrower’s financial stability, and it is more likely to be affected adversely by job loss, illness, or personal bankruptcy. In addition, federal and state bankruptcy, insolvency, and other laws may limit the amount we can recover when a consumer client defaults. We maintain a reserve for loan losses which represents our best estimate of inherent losses in our loan portfolio. We establish the reserve by charging a provision for loan losses against income. The determination of the appropriate reserve is based on subjective judgments we make about the likelihood that loans will be repaid. The information we consider includes both quantitative and qualitative factors, including loan loss experience, loan concentrations, trends in economic conditions, and trends in collateral composition, valuation, and appraisals, among others. Establishing the reserve for loan losses involves significant estimates and judgments. Changing conditions, new information, and additional problem loans could require us to increase our reserve for loan losses, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Market interest rates can affect loan profitability and increase repayment risk. The interest rates on almost all of our commercial loans, and on many of our consumer and residential mortgage loans, are adjustable (floating). Floating rate loans generally carry lower initial interest rates than fixed rate loans, which may make them less profitable than fixed rate loans during the initial interest rate period. When the floating rate rises, it may be more difficult for some borrowers to repay their loans, and loan delinquencies may increase. Changes in market interest rates, and the pace at which they occur, can affect net interest income adversely. Market interest rates present more risk to us than inflation. As a financial institution, nearly all of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. Their values are more likely to be eroded by changes in market interest rates than by the effects of inflation on currency valuations. Rate changes, which can affect the yields we earn on loans and investments and the rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings, can affect our net interest margin and net interest income positively or negatively, and ultimately affect our financial performance. Securities in our investment portfolio are subject to credit risk, market risk, illiquidity, and accounting risk. The fair value of instruments in our investment securities portfolio may fall below the amount at which we purchased them, and we may be required to record these valuation declines as impairment losses. These conditions could result from factors beyond our control, Part I — Item 1A (continued) 9 including credit rating agency downgrades, issuer defaults, lack of market demand or trading activity, and instability in the credit markets. In addition, issuers of these securities may prepay or revoke instruments prior to their scheduled maturity. These conditions could affect our cash flows and earnings negatively. Any change in current accounting principles or interpretations of those principles could affect our assessment of the fair value of our securities and our determination of whether they are other-than-temporarily impaired. Such a determination would require us to record a non-cash charge in an amount equal to the decrease in the value of the securities. Volatility in financial markets can affect our noninterest income adversely. Some of our WAS and CCS fees, and all of the affiliate money manager fees, are based on financial market valuations of assets we manage or hold in custody for clients. Changes in these valuations can affect noninterest income positively or negatively, and ultimately affect our financial results. Significant changes in the volume of activity in the capital markets, and in the number of assignments we are awarded, could also affect our financial results. Circumstances in the mid-Atlantic region, throughout the United States, and around the world could reduce demand for our services and negatively affect our ability to conduct business. These circumstances include inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in market interest rates, money supply, tax policies, the competitive environment, economic uncertainty, military actions, and other factors beyond our control. Changes in business and economic conditions in general, or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business, could affect our financial results adversely. Our results also could be affected adversely by a weakening of, or sustained weakness in, business or economic conditions that may affect our clients and counterparties directly or indirectly. These conditions could lead to: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services we offer. • A decrease in client savings, in general, and in demand for the savings and investment products we offer, in particular. • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws, or default on their loans and other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies, or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, and provisions for loan losses. Our Regional Banking business is particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in the mid-Atlantic region, where this business is concentrated. Competition can cause us to increase the rates we pay to attract deposits, reduce the interest rates we can charge on loans, and reduce the fees we charge for services. Competition can also affect our ability to retain existing clients or attract new clients. We compete for loans, deposits, assets to manage or hold in custody, and opportunities to provide trustee, administrative, and other services. We compete for loans primarily with savings banks, savings and loan associations, commercial banks, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders in the mid-Atlantic region. For deposits, we compete primarily with savings banks, savings and loan associations, and commercial banks operating in the mid-Atlantic region. We also compete for deposits with dealers in government securities, deposit brokers, and credit card, direct, and Internet-based financial institutions. We compete for other types of business with regional and money center banks, trust companies, investment advisors, mutual fund companies, family office service providers, insurance companies, accounting firms, law firms, and other service providers. Some of our competitors are larger, have greater financial resources, have higher lending limits, and provide services that we do not, such as investment banking. In some cases, mergers, acquisitions, and other types of consolidation within the financial services industry have heightened competition by reducing the number of competitors. In other cases, consolidation that created very large institutions has reduced the number of independent, conflict-free competitors and improved our competitive position. Our business could be affected negatively if we fail to develop and market new and innovative products and services, or fail to adopt or deploy new technologies. Our ability to compete for business depends in part on our ability to develop ways to differentiate our products and services and to improve efficiency. Competitive pressures plus rapid technological change in our industry require us to invest in new products and services, and to bring them to market in a timely fashion and at a competitive price, on an ongoing basis. 10 Wilmington Trust Corporation 2009 Form-10-K Developing and introducing new products can be risky. We may not achieve timeframe, price, or profitability targets. Changes in the regulatory environment, competition, and market demand could affect our ability to launch new products successfully. There could be unanticipated effects on our system of internal controls. These factors could affect our financial performance negatively. Changes in accounting rules may affect our reported earnings and operating income adversely. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business are highly complex and may involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretations could affect our earnings significantly. Changes in the value of goodwill or intangible assets on our balance sheet could affect earnings adversely. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired under GAAP, we may be required to record an expense that could reduce earnings and stockholders’ equity. We review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. We are required to test for impairment at least annually. In 2008, we wrote down the value of our investment in affiliate money manager Roxbury Capital Management by $66.9 million. Reductions in the value of our deferred tax assets could affect earnings adversely. A deferred tax asset (DTA) is created by the tax effect of the differences between an asset’s book value and its tax basis. We assess our DTAs periodically to determine the likelihood of our ability to realize their benefits. These assessments consider the performance of the associated business and its ability to generate future taxable income. If the information available to us at the time of assessment indicates there is a greater than 50% chance that we will not realize the DTA benefit, we are required to establish a valuation allowance for it and record a corresponding charge against earnings. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Making acquisitions can be risky. Our attention may be diverted from other business matters; we could lose key clients or staff members; we may have difficulty integrating systems and operations; the acquired business may not meet our profitability expectations; we may assume unanticipated liabilities; we may be unable to anticipate fully the risks associated with entering new market segments or geographical areas; and we may incur unanticipated expenses. These factors could affect our financial performance negatively. We typically allocate a portion of an acquisition’s purchase price to goodwill. If the value of the acquired entity or business unit deteriorates, we may be required to record a goodwill impairment that could reduce earnings and stockholders’ equity. We run the risk of having insufficient liquidity, or funding. A lack of funding, or of access to it, could impede our ability to make loans, fund other asset growth, accommodate deposit withdrawals and other liability maturities, meet contractual obligations, and fund new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Core deposits (deposits from clients) are our primary source of funding. Our core deposits come primarily from Delaware, where our consumer banking activities are concentrated. Because we make commercial loans throughout the mid-Atlantic region, we rely on other funding sources to augment core deposits. A significant decrease in our core deposits, an inability to obtain alternative funding to our core deposits, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of funding could have a negative effect on our business and financial condition. Our access to funding, and our ability to serve some clients, could be affected adversely by unfavorable rating actions taken by credit rating agencies. Wilmington Trust Corporation and Wilmington Trust Company are rated by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings. Unfavorable rating actions by these agencies could increase our cost of funds, reduce or limit our access to certain types of funding, place us in violation of certain covenants in client and other contracts in which we are a party, or adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Disruption in the capital and credit markets has created illiquidity and uncertainty. The capital and credit markets have experienced severe volatility and disruption since the second half of 2007. In some cases, these conditions have produced downward pressures on security prices and credit availability for issuers regardless of the underlying financial strength of the issuers. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Part I — Item 1A (continued) 11 The failure of other financial institutions could affect us adversely. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with other financial services providers, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurers, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral we hold cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. Defaults by, or even questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, could create market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions or us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes. As a financial services institution, we are subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions, and policies in each jurisdiction in which we operate. In 2009, as many emergency government programs slowed or wound down, regulatory and legislative focus generally moved to a second phase of broader reform and a restructuring of financial institution regulation. Legislators and regulators in the United States currently are considering a wide range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way financial services institutions are regulated. Some of these major changes may take effect later this year and may affect the operating environment for one or more of our businesses in substantial and unpredictable ways. We and our subsidiaries are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions. Failure to comply adequately with these restrictions could subject us to financial, regulatory, or other sanctions, which could have negative effects on our financial performance and ability to conduct business. These include restrictions imposed by the BHCA, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the Federal Reserve Act, the Home Owners’ Loan Act, and a variety of federal and state consumer protection laws. We are subject to regular examination, supervision, and regulation by various federal and state authorities with regard to compliance with these and other laws and regulations. These and other laws, regulations, and policies, including standards or interpretations, to which we are subject could change at any time. For more information about these restrictions, read the supervision and regulation section of Item 1 in this report. As a result of this regulatory oversight, we have implemented plans at the request of our regulators that are intended to, among other things, enhance the independence and effectiveness of our loan review, credit policy, and credit analysis functions; address liquidity management and current and future capital requirements; improve our position on nonperforming loans; and improve our credit risk management. Our agreement with our regulators does not require us to raise capital. In addition, we have agreed with our regulators that we will not purchase or redeem our common stock, and that we will not incur any debt, subject to certain exceptions, and that Wilmington Trust Company will not incur any debt with an original maturity of greater than one year, in each case without prior written approval from our regulators. If we are unable to comply with these policies or agreements, we could become subject to supervisory action, possibly including cease and desist orders, prompt corrective action directives, or other regulatory enforcement actions. Any such formal enforcement action could limit our ability to develop new business or operate our existing business, or require us to raise additional capital or dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed time period, or both. Such a regulatory order could have a material negative effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Because of stresses on the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC has recently imposed, and could impose in the future, additional assessments on the banking industry. The recent financial crisis has caused the Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC to fall below required minimum levels. Because the FDIC replenishes the Deposit Insurance Fund through assessments on the banking industry, we anticipate that the FDIC likely will maintain relatively high deposit insurance premiums for the foreseeable future. The FDIC recently has imposed a special deposit insurance assessment on the banking industry, and there can be no assurance that it will not do so again. It also has required banking organizations to pre-pay deposit insurance premiums in order to replenish the liquid assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund, and it may impose similar requirements in the future. High insurance premiums and special assessments will affect our profitability adversely. We and our subsidiaries are subject to various legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Some of these proceedings may seek relief or damages in amounts that may be substantial. Typically these proceedings are complex, and many years may pass before they are resolved. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct business, manage actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and protect confidential client information. It can have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain clients, expose us to litigation and regulatory actions, and ultimately affect our financial performance negatively. Our ability to pay dividends on our stock depends on the financial results of our wholly owned subsidiaries, and other factors. As a bank holding company, we conduct almost all of our business through WTC, WTFSB, and our other subsidiaries. Payments to us by these subsidiaries are the primary sources of the capital we use to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to make these payments to us is limited by their need to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on the dividends they pay us. We have agreed with our regulators that Wilmington Trust Company will not pay dividends to us without prior written approval from its regulators, if such dividends would reduce its regulatory capital ratios below the minimum levels required for it to remain well capitalized under the applicable regulatory capital standards, or below the minimum 12 Wilmington Trust Corporation 2009 Form-10-K levels required under its internal capital plan, whichever are higher. If Wilmington Trust Company does not satisfy these requirements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our stock. Our participation in the CPP places some restrictions on our ability to pay or increase dividends on our common stock. For more information about these and other regulatory restrictions on common stock dividend payments, read Item 5 and Note 16, “Capital,” in this report. In the future, we may issue debt and equity securities that could reduce the value of our common stock. We may attempt to increase our capital resources by issuing additional common stock, preferred stock, or secured or unsecured debt. Some of these issues, were they to occur, could substantially dilute the value of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings may be influenced by market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future offerings or debt financings. In addition, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. More information about these potential activities is in the prospectus supplement and amended shelf registration filed with the SEC on January 12, 2009. These documents are available on www.wilmingtontrust.com in the Investor Relations section under SEC filings. Our certificate of incorporation may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law include certain anti-takeover provisions. These protections could discourage potential acquisition proposals, or delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Under these provisions, we have a classified Board of Directors; we require shareholders to inform us in advance and meet certain other conditions if they nominate directors; and we have the ability to issue the balance of our 1 million shares of preferred stock and the balance of our 150 million authorized shares of common stock in the event of an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Under the CPP, as long as any of the CPP preferred shares are outstanding, we may not issue any securities senior to those shares without the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of those shares. Other risks could affect our earnings and damage our reputation. These include human error, systems failures, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, and inadequate controls and procedures. Additional information. For more information about the risks to which we are exposed, read: • The sections on credit risk and capital resources in the MD&A in this report. • Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 