Item 1A. Risk Factors The normal course of business exposes us to a variety of operational, reputational, legal, and regulatory risks, which we summarize below. All of these risks could affect our financial performance and condition adversely. We and our subsidiaries are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions. Failure to comply with these restrictions adequately could subject us to financial, regulatory, or other sanctions, which could have adverse effects on our financial performance and ability to conduct business. These include restrictions imposed by the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the Federal Reserve Act, the Home Owners’ Loan Act, and a variety of federal and state consumer protection laws. We are subject to regular examination, supervision, and regulation by various federal and state authorities with regard to compliance with these and other laws and regulations. These and other laws, regulations, and policies, including standards or interpretations to which we are subject, could change at any time. In addition, we are required to obtain regulatory approval of the acquisition by M&T. One or more regulators may not approve that acquisition. Alternatively, in connection with obtaining such approvals, our regulators could impose conditions on the completion of the merger or other requirements which could affect our operations materially. We implemented plans at the request of our regulators that are intended to, among other things, enhance the independence and effectiveness of our loan review, credit policy, and credit analysis functions; address liquidity management and current and future capital requirements; improve our position on nonperforming loans; and improve our credit risk management. We were directed by our regulators not to pay dividends on our common or preferred stock without their prior approval. Subsequent to year-end, our regulators approved the payment of our 2011 first quarter preferred stock dividend. Also, we agreed with our regulators that we will not purchase or redeem our common or preferred stock, that we will not incur any debt, subject to certain exceptions, and that Wilmington Trust Company will not incur any debt with an original maturity of greater than one year, in each case without prior written approval from our regulators. In addition, we may not appoint directors or senior executive officers of Wilmington Trust Corporation, Wilmington Trust Company, or Wilmington Trust FSB, or make severance payments to former directors or staff members, without prior approval of our regulators. WTFSB entered into a supervisory agreement with the OTS on February 17, 2011, pursuant to which, among other things, WTFSB is deemed to be adequately capitalized, must achieve future capital targets, limit its asset growth in any quarter to the net interest credited to its deposit liabilities during the quarter, cannot pay dividends without OTS approval, may not enter into or modify contractual arrangements related to compensation, benefits, or third-party contracts outside the ordinary course of business without prior OTS approval, and must take steps to increase its independence from Wilmington Trust Company. If we do not comply with these policies, agreements, and directives, we could become subject to supervisory action, possibly including cease-and-desist orders, prompt corrective action directives, and other regulatory enforcement actions. Based on discussions with our regulators, we believe that, without a change-of-control transaction acceptable to them, we likely would face imminent significant additional regulatory actions, which likely would cause our business prospects to worsen dramatically. Any such formal enforcement action could limit our ability to develop new business or operate our existing businesses, or require us to raise additional capital or dispose of certain assets or liabilities within a prescribed time period, or both. Such regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 10 We are subject to contractual restrictions and business uncertainties while the M&T merger is pending. Our merger agreement with M&T restricts us from operating in any way other than in the ordinary course of business, and prohibits us from taking specified actions until the merger occurs, without M&T’s consent. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the merger. In addition, uncertainty about the effect of the M&T merger on our staff members and clients may affect our business adversely. We may have difficulty retaining staff members while the merger is pending, as certain staff members may experience uncertainty about their future roles, if any, with M&T. In addition, the uncertainty caused by the pending merger could cause our clients and business associates to change their existing business relationships with us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key staff members and retain and grow our client base until we complete the merger. Termination of our merger agreement with M&T could affect our business negatively. If the merger agreement with M&T is terminated, there may be various adverse consequences. For example, our businesses may have been affected adversely by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to contractual restrictions in the merger agreement, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the merger. Also, to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger with M&T will be completed, the market price of our common stock could decline if the merger agreement is terminated. In addition, termination of our agreement with M&T could increase the possibility of further downgrades by the credit rating agencies or imminent significant additional regulatory actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are subject to credit risk. This risk is associated primarily with our banks. When we make a loan through our banks, we make subjective judgments about a borrower’s ability to repay. No matter how financially sound a client or lending decision may seem, a borrower’s ability to repay can be affected adversely by economic changes and other external factors. If borrowers do not repay their loans, our levels of nonperforming assets, loan losses, and the provision for loan losses could increase. Adverse economic conditions, especially in the mid-Atlantic region, have increased the degree of repayment risk inherent in our loan portfolio. We do most of our lending in the mid-Atlantic region. Economic conditions in this region have affected the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Adverse conditions also have reduced the value of assets, such as property or securities that borrowers use as collateral. A reduction in the value of collateral could affect our ability to collect the balance of a loan if the borrower defaults. We do not expect the adverse conditions to improve in the near term. If these conditions persist, they could have a further material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial loans, which constituted 74% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2010. Some of our commercial loans carry a higher degree of repayment risk than others. The commercial real estate — construction and commercial mortgage loans we make may carry a higher degree of repayment risk than other types of loans. The commercial real estate business is subject to downturns, overbuilding, and economic conditions. Adverse conditions in the real estate market and in the economy in general, have affected the repayment ability of these borrowers more severely than other types of borrowers. Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 11 Commercial mortgage loans may be riskier than those for one-to-four family residences. Commercial mortgage loans are typically larger than loans for one-to-four family residential properties. In addition, the repayment of commercial mortgage loans typically depends on successful property operation and management or, in the case of owner-occupied properties, successful operation of the underlying business. Commercial mortgage loans comprised 26% of our total loans as of December 31, 2010. Approximately 55% of these loans were for properties in Delaware. Many of our commercial mortgage loans are to developers, contactors, and construction businesses, to which we have extended other types of credit. During 2010, the financial condition of many of our commercial mortgage borrowers worsened, resulting in increased nonperforming loans, loan loss provisions, charge-offs, and losses. Further deterioration in this portfolio could increase nonperforming loans, which could lead to reduced earnings, a higher loan loss provision, and higher charge-offs, all of which could affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. Commercial real estate — construction loans, which we make for residential and commercial properties and for unimproved land, carry a higher degree of repayment risk than other types of loans, especially when the associated projects are not generating income. Repayment of these types of loans often depends on the ultimate success of the project, not on the borrower’s or guarantor’s ability to repay. In addition, consistent with industry practice, we sometimes fund the interest payments on a commercial construction loan by including the interest as part of the loan. This increases the total amount of the loan. Commercial real estate — construction loans comprised 19% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010. Within this portfolio, we had a geographic concentration in Delaware, where 55% of these loans were located. During 2010, the financial condition of many of our commercial real estate - construction borrowers worsened; updated appraisals indicated significant declines in collateral values, particularly for construction loans in southern Delaware; and there was continued lack of improvement in the Delaware economy. These resulted in increased nonperforming loans, loan loss provisions, charge-offs, and losses. Further deterioration of the commercial real estate - construction portfolio could result in an increase in nonperforming loans, which could lead to reduced earnings, a higher loan loss provision, and higher charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Consumer and other retail loans comprised 26% of our total loans at December 31, 2010. Consumer loans may carry a higher degree of repayment risk than residential mortgage loans, particularly when the consumer loan is unsecured. Repayment of a consumer loan typically depends on the borrower’s financial stability, and it is more likely to be affected adversely by job loss, illness, or personal bankruptcy. In addition, federal and state bankruptcy, insolvency, and other laws may limit the amount we can recover when a consumer client defaults. During 2010, the financial condition of many of our consumer and other retail borrowers worsened. Further deterioration in this portfolio could increase nonperforming loans, which could lead to reduced earnings, higher loan loss provisions, and higher charge-offs, all of which could affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. We maintain a reserve for loan losses which represents our best estimate of inherent losses in our loan portfolio. We establish the reserve by charging a provision for loan losses against income. We determine the amount of the reserve by making subjective judgments about the likelihood that loans will be repaid. The information we consider includes both quantitative and qualitative Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 12 factors, including loan loss experience, loan concentrations, trends in economic conditions, and trends in collateral composition, valuation, appraisals, and other factors. Establishing the reserve for loan losses involves significant estimates and judgments. Changing conditions, new information, and additional problem loans could require us to increase our reserve for loan losses, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Market interest rates can affect loan profitability and increase repayment risk. The interest rates on almost all of our commercial loans, and on many of our consumer and residential mortgage loans, are adjustable (floating). Floating rate loans generally carry lower initial interest rates than fixed rate loans, which may make them less profitable than fixed rate loans during the initial interest rate period. When the floating rate rises, it may be more difficult for some borrowers to repay their loans, and loan delinquencies may increase, which could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, charge-offs, and provisions for loan losses, and have a material effect on our financial condition. For additional discussion about how the recession and our credit risk concentrations have affected our financial results and condition, read the “Credit risk” discussion in this report. Changes in market interest rates, and the pace at which they occur, can affect net interest income adversely. Market interest rates present more risk to us than inflation. As a financial institution, nearly all of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. Their values are more likely to be eroded by changes in market interest rates than by the effects of inflation on currency valuations. Rate changes, which can affect the yields we earn on loans and investments and the rates we pay on deposits and other borrowings, can affect our net interest margin and net interest income positively or negatively, and ultimately affect our financial performance. We have experienced an extended period of historically low interest rates since 2008, which has affected our net interest income. For additional information about this, read the “Net interest income and margin” discussion in this report. Securities in our investment portfolio are subject to credit risk, market risk, and illiquidity. The fair value of instruments in our investment securities portfolio may fall below the amount at which we purchased them, and we may be required to record these valuation declines as impairment losses. These conditions could result from factors beyond our control, including credit rating agency downgrades, issuer defaults, lack of market demand or trading activity, and instability in the credit markets. In addition, issuers of these securities may prepay or revoke instruments prior to their scheduled maturity. These conditions could affect our cash flows and earnings negatively. Any change in current accounting principles or interpretations of those principles could affect our assessment of the fair value of our securities and our determination of whether they are other-than-temporarily impaired. Such a determination would require us to record a non-cash charge in an amount equal to the decrease in the value of the securities. Volatility in financial markets can affect our noninterest income adversely. Some of our WAS and CCS fees, and all of our affiliate money manager fees, are based on financial market valuations of assets we or our affiliate money managers manage or hold Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 13 in custody for clients. Changes in these valuations can affect noninterest income positively or negatively, and ultimately affect our financial results. Significant changes in the volume of activity in the capital markets, and in the number of assignments we are awarded, could also affect our financial results. Circumstances in the mid-Atlantic region, throughout the United States, and around the world could reduce demand for our services and adversely affect our ability to conduct business. These circumstances include inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in market interest rates, money supply, tax policies, the competitive environment, economic uncertainty, military actions, and other factors beyond our control. Changes in business and economic conditions in general, or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business, could affect our financial results adversely. Our results also could be affected adversely by a weakening of, or sustained weakness in, business or economic conditions that may affect our clients and counterparties directly or indirectly. These conditions could lead to: • A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services we offer. • A decrease in client savings, in general, and in demand for the savings and investment products we offer, in particular. • An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws, or default on their loans and other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies, or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, and provisions for loan losses. Our Regional Banking business is particularly vulnerable to adverse changes in economic conditions in the mid-Atlantic region, where this business is concentrated. Competition can cause us to increase the rates we pay to attract deposits, reduce the interest rates we can charge on loans, and reduce the fees we charge for services. Competition can also affect our ability to retain existing clients or attract new clients. We compete for loans, deposits, assets to manage or hold in custody, and opportunities to provide trustee, administrative, and other services. We compete for loans primarily with savings banks, savings and loan associations, commercial banks, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders in the mid-Atlantic region. For deposits, we compete primarily with savings banks, savings and loan associations, and commercial banks operating in the mid-Atlantic region. We also compete for deposits with dealers in government securities, deposit brokers, and credit card, direct, and internet-based financial institutions. We compete for other types of business with regional and money center banks, trust companies, investment advisors, mutual fund companies, family office service providers, insurance companies, accounting firms, law firms, and other service providers. Some of our competitors are larger, have greater financial resources, have higher lending limits, and provide services that we do not, such as investment banking. In some cases, mergers, acquisitions, and other types of consolidation within the financial services Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 14 industry have heightened competition by reducing the number of competitors. In other cases, consolidation that created very large institutions has reduced the number of independent, conflict-free competitors and improved our competitive position. Our business could be affected adversely if we fail to develop and market new and innovative products and services, or fail to adopt or deploy new technologies. Our ability to compete for business depends in part on our ability to develop ways to differentiate our products and services and to improve efficiency. Competitive pressures plus rapid technological change in our industry require us to invest in new products and services, and to bring them to market in a timely fashion and at a competitive price, on an ongoing basis. Developing and introducing new products can be risky. We may not achieve timeframe, price, or profitability targets. Changes in the regulatory environment, competition, and market demand could affect our ability to launch new products successfully. There could be unanticipated effects on our system of internal controls. These factors could affect our financial performance adversely. Changes in accounting rules may affect our reported earnings and operating income adversely. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business are highly complex and may involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretations could affect our earnings significantly. Changes in the value of goodwill or intangible assets on our balance sheet could affect earnings adversely. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired under GAAP, we may be required to record an expense that could reduce earnings and stockholders’ equity. We review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. We are required to test for impairment at least annually. During 2010, we recorded a $24.5 million impairment write-down on the goodwill related to our affiliate money manager Roxbury Capital Management (RCM) and on our Regional Banking segment. In 2008, we recorded an impairment write-down for $66.9 million on our investment in RCM. Reductions in the value of our deferred tax assets could affect earnings adversely. A deferred tax asset (DTA) is created by the tax effect of the differences between an asset’s book value and its tax basis. We assess our DTAs periodically to determine the likelihood of our ability to realize their benefits. These assessments consider the performance of the associated business and its ability to generate future taxable income. If the information available to us at the time of assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that we will not realize the DTA benefit, we are required to establish a valuation allowance for it and record a corresponding charge against earnings. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. During 2010, we established a $292.2 million valuation allowance against our DTAs. Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 15 We run the risk of having insufficient liquidity, or funding. A lack of funding, or access to it, could impede our ability to make loans, fund other asset growth, accommodate deposit withdrawals and other liability maturities, meet contractual obligations, and fund new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner, and without adverse consequences. Core deposits (deposits from clients) are our primary source of funding. Our core deposits come primarily from Delaware, where our consumer banking activities are concentrated. Because we make commercial loans throughout the mid-Atlantic region, we rely on other funding sources to augment core deposits. A significant decrease in our core deposits, an inability to obtain alternative funding to our core deposits, or a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of funding could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our access to funding, and our ability to serve some clients, could be affected adversely by unfavorable rating actions taken by credit rating agencies. Wilmington Trust Corporation and Wilmington Trust Company are rated by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings. Unfavorable rating actions by these agencies could increase our cost of funds, reduce or limit our access to certain types of funding, place us in violation of certain covenants in client and other contracts in which we are a party, or adversely affect our ability to conduct business. On February 16, 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its credit ratings on Wilmington Trust Corporation and Wilmington Trust Company, citing our continued credit quality problems, our fourth quarter net loss, and further erosion of our capital. Because we expect that our credit ratings will be consistent with M&T’s upon consummation of the merger, we believe that these lower credit ratings will not have a material effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. This or further credit rating downgrades could have a material effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition if our merger agreement with M&T is terminated. Disruption in the capital and credit markets has created illiquidity and uncertainty. The capital and credit markets have experienced severe volatility and disruption since the second half of 2007. In some cases, these conditions have produced downward pressures on security prices and credit availability for issuers regardless of the underlying financial strength of the issuers. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The failure of other financial institutions could affect us adversely. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with other financial services providers, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurers, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral we hold cannot be relied upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our exposure. Defaults by, or even questions or rumors about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, could create market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions or us. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 16 The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major change. As a financial services institution, we are subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions, and policies in each jurisdiction in which we operate. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act could affect our financial results adversely. In July 2010, Congress enacted and the President signed the Dodd-Frank Act, which will impose comprehensive regulation of financial institutions. This law, among other things: • Establishes higher capital standards for banks and bank holding companies; • Enhances regulation of financial markets, including derivatives and securitization markets; • Prohibits banks from engaging in certain trading activities; • Creates a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations of financial products, which would affect both banks and non-bank finance companies; • Creates a Financial Services Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; • Eliminates the Office of Thrift Supervision and transfers oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; and • Permanently increases the previously implemented temporary increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000. While it has been signed into law, numerous provisions of the Act will be implemented through rulemaking by various regulatory agencies. We are unable to predict what the final form of these rules will be when implemented, but believe that certain aspects of the new legislation, including the increase in deposit insurance premiums and the cost of complying with disclosure and reporting requirements and examinations by the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations significantly. Because of stresses on the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC has recently imposed, and could impose in the future, additional assessments on the banking industry. The financial crisis that began in 2008 caused the Deposit Insurance Fund, administered by the FDIC, to fall below required minimum levels. Although the FDIC has replenished part of the fund through higher premiums, special assessments, and prepaid premiums, we anticipate that the FDIC likely will maintain relatively high deposit insurance premiums for the foreseeable future. The FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment on the banking industry in 2009, and there can be no assurance that it will not do so again. It also has required banking organizations to pre-pay deposit insurance premiums in order to replenish the liquid assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund, and it may impose similar requirements in the future. High insurance premiums and special assessments will affect our profitability adversely. We and our subsidiaries are subject to various legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Some of these proceedings may seek relief or damages in amounts that may be substantial. Typically these proceedings are complex, and many years may pass before they are resolved. In addition, several legal proceedings have commenced since the announcement of our merger agreement with M&T. For more information about this, read Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” in this report. Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 17 Negative public opinion could damage our reputation. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct business, manage actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues, and protect confidential client information. It can have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain clients, expose us to litigation and regulatory actions, and ultimately affect our financial performance adversely. Our ability to pay dividends on our stock depends on the financial results of our wholly owned subsidiaries, our regulators, and other factors. As a bank holding company, we conduct almost all of our business through WTC, WTFSB, and our other subsidiaries. Payments to us by these subsidiaries are the primary sources of the capital we use to pay dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to make these payments to us is limited by their need to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on the dividends they pay us. We agreed with our regulators that Wilmington Trust Company will not pay dividends to us without prior written approval from its regulators, if such dividends would reduce its regulatory capital ratios below the minimum levels required for it to remain well capitalized under the applicable regulatory capital standards, or below the minimum levels required under its internal capital plan, whichever are higher. We also agreed with the OTS that WTFSB will not pay dividends to us without OTS approval. We were directed by our regulators not to pay dividends on our common or preferred stock without their prior approval. Subsequent to year-end, our regulators approved the payment of our 2011 first quarter preferred stock dividend. For more information about these and other regulatory restrictions on common and preferred stock dividend payments, read Item 5 and Note 17, “Capital,” in this report. Our certificate of incorporation may discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law include certain anti-takeover provisions. These protections could discourage potential acquisition proposals, or delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Under these provisions, we have a classified Board of Directors; we require stockholders to inform us in advance and meet certain other conditions if they nominate directors; and we have the ability to issue the balance of our 1 million shares of preferred stock and the balance of our 150 million authorized shares of common stock in the event of an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Under the CPP, as long as any of the CPP preferred shares are outstanding, we may not issue any securities senior to those shares without the consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of those shares. Other risks could affect our earnings and damage our reputation. These include human error, systems failures, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, and inadequate controls and procedures. Additional information. For more information about the risks to which we are exposed, read: • The sections on credit risk and capital resources in the MD&A in this report. • Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” in this report. Table of Contents Wilmington Trust Corporation 2010 Form 10-K 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We currently have an open comment letter in which the Securities and Exchange Commission’s staff has inquired about certain matters regarding our Form 10-K for 2009 and our Forms 10-Q filed during 2010 relating to credit review, substandard and nonperforming loans, impaired loans, collateral values, goodwill, and our deferred tax asset valuation allowance. We have responded to the SEC comments and although we have not formally resolved this matter with the SEC, we believe that our responses addressed their comments in all material respects and we have incorporated the applicable responses to the SEC comments into our filings. 