ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are certain interest rate and credit risks associated with consumer and commercial lending. A certain degree of credit risk is inherent in the Banks’ various lending activities. The Banks offer fixed and adjustable interest rates on loans, with terms of up to 30 years. Although the majority of residential mortgage loans the Banks originate are fixed-rate, adjustable rate mortgage (“ARM”) loans increase the responsiveness of the Banks’ loan portfolios to changes in market interest rates. However, ARM loans generally carry lower initial interest rates than fixed-rate loans. Accordingly, they may be less profitable than fixed-rate loans during the initial interest rate period. In addition, since they are more responsive to changes in market interest rates than fixed-rate loans, ARM loans can increase the possibility of delinquencies in periods of high interest rates. The Banks also originate loans secured by mortgages on commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate. Since these loans usually are larger than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, they generally involve greater risks than one-to-four family residential mortgage loans. In addition, since customers’ ability to repay those loans often is dependent on operating and managing those properties successfully, adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy generally can impact repayment more severely than loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties. Moreover, the commercial real estate business is subject to downturns, overbuilding and local economic conditions. The Banks also make construction loans for residences and commercial buildings, as well as on unimproved property. While these loans also enable the Banks to increase the interest rate sensitivity of their loan portfolios and receive higher yields than those obtainable on permanent residential mortgage loans, the higher yields correspond to the higher risks perceived to be associated with construction lending. Those include risks associated generally with loans on the type of property securing the loan. Consistent with industry practice, the Banks sometimes fund the interest on a construction loan by including the interest as part of the total loan. Moreover, commercial construction lending often involves disbursing substantial funds with repayment dependent largely on the success of the ultimate project instead of the borrower’s or guarantor’s ability to repay. Again, adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy generally can impact repayment more severely than loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties. General economic conditions and real estate values can affect our earnings. In the event of slow economic conditions or deterioration in commercial and real estate markets, we would expect increased nonperforming assets, credit losses, and provisions for loan losses. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, money supply, and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our asset quality, deposit levels, and loan demand and, therefore, our earnings. Since we have a significant amount of real estate loans, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on our borrowers’ ability to make timely repayment of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. In addition, the majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in Delaware and Pennsylvania. Consequently, any decline in the economy of this market area could have an adverse effect on our earnings. See the “Asset Quality” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report to Shareholders for 2006 for further 24 discussion related to our process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. We face increasing competition for deposits, loans, and assets under management. The Banks compete for deposits, loans, and assets under management. Many of the Banks’ competitors are larger and have greater financial resources and larger lending limits than the Banks. These disparities have been accelerated with increasing consolidation in the financial services industry. Savings banks, savings and loan associations, and commercial banks located in the Banks’ principal market areas historically have provided the most direct competition for deposits. Dealers in government securities, deposit brokers, and credit card, direct, and internet-based financial institutions outside of the Banks’ principal market areas also provide competition for deposits. Savings banks, savings and loan associations, commercial banks, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and other institutional lenders provide the principal competition for loans. This competition can increase the rates the Banks pay to attract deposits and reduce the interest rates they can charge on loans, and impact the Banks’ ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. Banks, trust companies, investment advisers, mutual fund companies, multi-family offices, and insurance companies provide the Banks’ principal competition for trust and asset management business. Our ability to compete effectively is attributable in part to the responsive, personalized, and customized services we provide and our reputation resulting from our management’s knowledge and awareness of our clients and market areas. We believe this relationship approach and knowledge provide a business advantage in achieving high client satisfaction in serving the small to mid-sized businesses, entrepreneurs, professionals, and other individuals that comprise our Company’s customer base. Our ability to compete also is due in part to the competitive rates we offer on our loan and deposit products, the breadth of services we provide, and our ability to continue to attract and retain our highly qualified staff. Our ability to compete for business also depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative products and services, and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products and services or provide cost efficiencies. Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make ongoing investments to bring new products and services to market in a timely fashion and at competitive prices. A portion of our income is subject to market valuation risks. A significant portion of the fee income we earn in our wealth advisory, corporate retirement services, and asset management businesses is based upon market valuations of securities we hold for clients. Accordingly, downturns in these valuations can adversely affect that fee income. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in 25 which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. See the “Affiliate Managers” section of the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations” and Notes 4 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in our Annual Report to Shareholders for 2006. New products and services could subject us to additional risks. From time to time, we may offer new products or services. There can be significant risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts. We may invest significant time and resources in developing and marketing new products or services. Initial timetables to introduce and develop new products or services may not be achieved, and our price and profitability targets may not be achieved. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences also may impact the successful implementation of new products or services. Any new product or service could impact our system of internal controls. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be effected adversely. Our business could be impacted negatively by risks associated with acquisitions. We acquire other companies from time to time. To the extent we acquire other companies in the future, our business could be impacted negatively by certain risks associated with such acquisitions. These include: • The risk that we will incur expenses in pursuing potential acquisitions without completing them; • The risk that we may lose key clients of the acquired business as a result of the change of ownership to us; • The risk that we may lose key employees of the acquired business; • The risk that the acquired business will not perform according to our expectations; • The risk that difficulties will arise in connection with integrating the operations of the acquired business with operations of our existing businesses; • The risk that we will need to make significant investments in infrastructure, controls, staff, emergency backup facilities, and other critical business functions; • The risk that our management’s attention will be diverted from other aspects of our business; • The risk that unanticipated costs relating to potential acquisitions could reduce our earnings per share; • The risk associated with entering into geographic or product markets in which we have limited or no direct prior experience; and • The risk that we may assume potential liabilities of the acquired company as a result of the acquisition. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and affect our earnings adversely. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which we conduct our business, including our fiduciary, investment, and private and commercial banking activities; our management of actual or potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues; and our 26 protection of confidential customer information. Negative public opinion can affect adversely our ability to keep and attract customers, and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. We strive to minimize reputational risk in the way we conduct our business and deal with our customers and communities. Changes in accounting may affect our reported earnings and operating income. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as revenue recognition, accounting for financial instruments, and treatment of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly affect our earnings. A failure in internal controls could impact our earnings and damage our reputation. A failure in our internal controls could have a negative impact on our earnings and on the perception that customers, shareholders, and regulators may have of us. We devote a significant amount of effort, time, and resources to monitoring and improving our internal controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. We are subject to regulatory restrictions. We and our subsidiaries are subject to a variety of regulatory restrictions in conducting business by federal and state authorities. These include restrictions imposed by the Bank Holding Company Act, the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the Federal Reserve Act, the Home Owners’ Loan Act, and a variety of federal and state consumer protection laws. See “Supervision and Regulation.” Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law include certain anti-takeover provisions. In addition to the regulations described under “Supervision and Regulation” above, certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware’s General Corporation Law could discourage potential acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control of us. Those provisions include a classified Board of Directors, special provisions for notice to us for shareholders to nominate directors, and our ability to issue up to 1 million shares of preferred stock and 150 million shares of common stock. These authorized but unissued shares provide us desirable flexibility for possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, but could also delay or hinder an unsolicited acquisition of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 