Item 1A. Risk Factors In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the immediately succeeding risk factor. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in Western Pennsylvania because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. 30 Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as us are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and the fair value of the derivatives carried on our balance sheet, derivative hedge effectiveness testing and the amount of ineffectiveness recognized in our earnings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. There are increased risks involved with multi-family residential, commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by existing multi-family residential and commercial real estate. In addition, from time to time we originate loans for the construction of multi-family residential real estate and land acquisition and development loans. Multi-family residential, commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans to small to medium businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home improvement loans, home equity loans, education loans and loans secured by automobiles, boats, mobile homes, recreational vehicles and other personal property. Although commercial business loans and leases and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interests rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. Our allowance for losses on loans and leases may not be adequate to cover probable losses. We have established an allowance for loan losses based upon various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio which we believe is adequate to offset probable losses on our existing loans. While we are not aware of any specific factors indicating a deficiency in the amount of our allowance for loan losses, in light of the current economic slowdown, the increased number of foreclosures and lower real estate values, one of the most pressing current issues faced by financial institutions is the adequacy of their allowance for loan losses. Federal and state bank regulators have increased their scrutiny of the level of the allowance for losses maintained by regulated institutions. Many banks and other lenders are reporting significantly higher provisions to their allowance for loan losses, which are materially impacting their earnings. In the event that we have to increase our allowance for loan losses beyond current levels, it would have an adverse effect on our results in future periods. As of December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses amounted to $6.5 million. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. 31 We and our banking subsidiary are subject to capital and other requirements which restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders depends to a large extent upon the dividends we receive from ESB Bank. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania and federal laws and regulations. In addition, ESB Bank must maintain certain capital levels, which may restrict the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our articles of incorporation do not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of the Company or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. If our investment in the common stock the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, our earnings and Stockholders’ Equity could decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Pittsburgh. We hold this stock to qualify for membership in the FHLB System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLB of Pittsburgh’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLB of Pittsburgh common stock as of December 31, 2011 was $21.3 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLB of Pittsburgh common stock. Published reports indicate that certain member banks of the FHLB System may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could result in materially lower regulatory capital levels. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capital of a FHLB, including the FHLB of Pittsburgh, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. In December of 2008, the FHLB notified member banks that it was suspending dividend payments and the repurchase of capital stock. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLB of Pittsburgh common stock could be impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. Offsetting this risk, the FHLB has redeemed approximately $4.8 million of our stock in 2011. Increased and/or special Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assessments will adversely impact our earnings. There has been a high level of bank failures in recent years, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the year ended December 31, 2009, was $891,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. The requirement to account for certain assets at estimated fair value, and a proposal to account for additional financial assets and liabilities at estimated fair value, may adversely affect our Stockholders’ Equity and results of operations. We report certain assets, including securities, at fair value, and a recent proposal would require us to report nearly all of our financial assets and liabilities at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Under current accounting requirements, elevated delinquencies, defaults, and estimated losses from the disposition of collateral in our mortgage-backed securities portfolio may require us to recognize additional other-than-temporary impairment in future periods with respect to our securities portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in the estimated fair value of the asset and our estimate of the anticipated recovery period. Under proposed accounting requirements, we may be required to record reductions in the fair value of nearly all of 32 our financial assets and liabilities (including loans) either through a charge to net income or through a reduction to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Accordingly, we could be required to record charges on assets such as loans where we have no intention to sell the loan and expect to receive repayment in full on the loan. This could result in a decrease in net income, or a decrease in our stockholders’ equity, or both. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and by the FDIC. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Other than temporary declines in the value of our investment securities may require us to take additional charges to earnings. We evaluate our securities portfolio for other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) throughout the year. Each investment with a fair value less than book value of at least 15% is reviewed quarterly. In order to determine if a decline in fair value is other than temporary, the Company reviews corporate ratings of the investment, analyst reports and SEC filings of the issuers and other criteria under GAAP to indicate if any OTTI exists. Declines in the fair value of securities that can attributed to specific adverse conditions affecting the credit quality of the investment are recorded as OTTI losses and charged to earnings as an impairment charge while non-credit related OTTI on securities not expected to be sold is recognized in other comprehensive income. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded charges of $447,000, $1.2 million and $617,000, respectively, for OTTI on securities. In 2011, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $78,000 on a $2.5 million collateralized debt obligation, $52,000 on a private-label mortgage backed security and $317,000 on five of its equity investments in various banks that had experienced a decline in their market value for the last several quarters. As of December 31, 2011, our investment securities portfolio totaled $1.09 billion with a fair value of $1.13 billion, including trust preferred securities with an aggregate amortized cost of $45.9 million, an aggregate fair value of $37.5 million and gross unrealized losses of $8.6 million and corporate bonds with an aggregate amortized cost of $165.9 million, an aggregate fair value of $164.8 million and gross unrealized losses of $2.9 million. Because the declines in the fair value of individual securities are deemed to be temporary, the investment securities have not been written down to their fair value. We closely monitor our investment portfolio and additional declines in market value or credit quality could result in a conclusion in future periods that the securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. Such a conclusion of OTTI would require us to take additional charges to earnings to write down the value of these securities. The current economic environment poses significant challenges and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Although the economy in Western Pennsylvania continues to be strong in comparison to many other areas of the country and the United States as a whole, challenging conditions in the broader economy could adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in the Company’s market areas. The impact of current economic conditions on the Company’s financial results could also include increased levels of nonperforming loans, provisions for loan losses and expense associated with loan collection efforts. Additions to the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net earnings and capital and could hinder the Company’s ability to grow. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Federal Reserve Board to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than as available prior to 2008. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has been a contributing factor to increases in net interest income in the short term. Our ability to further lower our interest expense is limited as these interest rate levels already are at very low levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve Board has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. 33 Legislative or regulatory responses to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers. Current and future proposals made by members of Congress would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans, and may limit the ability of lenders to foreclose on mortgage collateral. If proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting the Bank’s rights as creditor, were to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses on our loans and mortgage-backed securities or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital as standards for banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase our interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if we determine that, due to competitive pressures in the marketplace or otherwise, we begin offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers. Consequently, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable 34 