Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. If any of these risks occur, the value of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition If we are not successful in developing and obtaining FDA approval of the drug/device combination product, or if we are unable to market and sell the product, we will not generate operating revenue or become profitable. The Delcath PHP System, a platform technology for the isolation of various organs or regions of the body to permit the regional delivery of high doses of drugs for the treatment of a variety of diseases, is our only product, and our entire focus has been on developing, commercializing, and obtaining regulatory approvals of this product. If the Delcath PHP System fails as a commercial product, we have no other products to sell. Continuing losses may exhaust our capital resources. We have had no revenue to date, a substantial accumulated deficit, recurring operating losses and negative cash flow. We expect to incur significant and increasing losses while generating minimal revenues over the next few years. From our inception on August 5, 1988 through December 31, 2009, we have incurred cumulative net losses of approximately $67.9 million. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 we incurred net losses of approximately $22.1 million, $6.9 million, and $3.7 million, respectively. To date, we have funded our operations through a combination of private placements of our securities and through the proceeds of our public offerings in 2000, 2003, 2007, June 2009 and November 2009. If we continue to incur losses, we may exhaust our capital resources, and as a result may be unable to complete our clinical trials, product development and commercialization of the Delcath PHP System. If we cannot raise the additional capital that may be required to commercialize the Delcath PHP System, our potential to generate future revenues will be significantly limited even if we receive FDA approval, and if we cannot raise additional capital generally, our business operations may be harmed. The Delcath PHP System is regulated by the FDA as a combination product. Before we can obtain approval to sell our product commercially in the United States we will need approval from the FDA. We will also need approval to market our products in foreign markets. We do not know if additional financings will be available when needed, or if they are available, that they will be available on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain additional financing as needed, we may not be able to complete our trials, obtain regulatory approvals or sell the Delcath PHP System commercially. Our liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: our research and product development programs, including clinical studies; the timing and costs of our various United States and foreign regulatory filings, obtaining approvals and complying with regulations; the timing of product commercialization activities, including marketing arrangements overseas; the timing and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing intellectual property rights; and the impact of competing technological and market developments. We do not know if additional financing will be available if needed, or if it is available, if it will be available on acceptable terms. Insufficient funds may require us to curtail or stop our research and development activities. Risks Related to FDA and Foreign Regulatory Approval Even if the FDA grants approval of the Delcath PHP System for the treatment of melanoma that has metastasized to the liver with melphalan, our ability to market the Delcath PHP System would be limited to that use. If the FDA grants approval for use of the Delcath PHP System in the treatment of melanoma that has metastasized to the liver with the drug melphalan, our ability to market the Delcath PHP System would be limited to its use with that drug in treating that disease. If we are unable to obtain FDA approval or successfully market the Delcath PHP System for treatment of other diseases, organs and regions and with other drugs, our ability to generate revenue and grow will be limited. 10 If we do not obtain required approvals, we may not be able to export the Delcath PHP System to foreign markets, which will limit our sales opportunities. If we do not receive CE mark approval for the Delcath PHP System, we will not be able to export the Delcath PHP System from the United States for marketing in the European Economic Area, or EEA, unless approval has been obtained from each nation in the EEA. In addition, regulatory approval is required before we can market the Delcath PHP System in other parts of the world. If the FDA does not approve our applications or we are not able to obtain approval from one or more other countries where we would like to sell the Delcath PHP System, we will be unable to market the Delcath PHP System as we intend. If we are unable to market the Delcath PHP System internationally because we are unable to obtain required approvals, our international market opportunity will be materially limited. Obtaining FDA approvals could be delayed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in conducting and completing required clinical trials, caused by many factors. The pace of completing these clinical trials will be dependent on a number of factors, some of which are out of our control. We have received a letter from the FDA stating that the Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, we submitted to the FDA was acceptable. An SPA is generally binding upon the FDA unless a substantial scientific issue essential to determining safety or efficacy is identified after the testing is begun. Any requirement by the FDA that we amend our SPA by requiring us to conduct additional trials or otherwise would delay the FDA’s review of our application. Any significant delay in completing clinical trials or in the FDA’s response to our submission would delay the commercialization of the Delcath PHP System and our ability to generate revenues. The FDA could temporarily or permanently halt the conduct of our clinical trials. If the FDA decides for any reason that the Delcath PHP System is not sufficiently safe or efficacious, it may require us to halt the trials. We may not be able to resume our trials if the FDA were to halt them. We may experience a number of events that could further delay or prevent development of the Delcath PHP System, including: the FDA may put our clinical trials on hold; the results of those trials could be negative; additional serious adverse events in the clinical trials could occur; we could experience difficulty in obtaining a supplier of melphalan in a timely manner; we could experience manufacturing difficulties; and other regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize, or may delay, suspend or terminate the clinical trial program due to safety concerns. Third-party reimbursement may not be available to purchasers of the Delcath PHP System or may be inadequate, resulting in lower sales even if FDA approval is granted. Physicians, hospitals and other health care providers may be reluctant to purchase the Delcath PHP System if they do not receive substantial reimbursement for the cost of using our product from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans. The Delcath PHP System is currently characterized by the FDA as an investigational device, and melphalan is an investigational drug at the dosage we are using. As such, Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans will not reimburse its use in the United States. We will seek reimbursement by third-party payors of the cost of the Delcath PHP System after its use is approved by the FDA. There are no assurances that third-party payors in the United States or abroad will agree to cover the cost of procedures using the Delcath PHP System. Further, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that the Delcath PHP System is not used in accordance with established payor protocols regarding cost effective treatment methods or is used for forms of cancer or with drugs not specifically approved by the FDA. Risks Related to Manufacturing, Commercialization and Market Acceptance of the Delcath PHP System We purchase components for the Delcath PHP System from sole-source suppliers. These manufacturers must comply with a number of FDA requirements and regulations. If we or one of our suppliers fails to meet such requirements, we may need to change suppliers. If we are unable to successfully change suppliers, the successful completion of some of our clinical trials and/or commercialization of the Delcath PHP System could be jeopardized. The components of the Delcath PHP System, including catheters, filters, introducers and chemotherapy agents, must be manufactured and assembled in accordance with approved manufacturing and predetermined performance specifications of the Delcath PHP System on file with the FDA and meet good manufacturing practice and quality systems requirements. Some states also have similar regulations. We intend to assemble, sterilize and package the Delcath PHP System at our Queensbury, NY facility. Many of the components of the Delcath PHP System are manufactured by sole-source suppliers that may have proprietary manufacturing processes. If we or any of our suppliers fail to meet those regulatory obligations, we may be forced to suspend or terminate our clinical trials, and once a product is approved for marketing, the manufacture, assembly or distribution thereof. Further, if we need to find a new source of supply, we may face long interruptions in obtaining necessary components for the Delcath PHP System, in obtaining FDA approval of these components and establishing the manufacturing process, which could jeopardize our ability to supply the Delcath PHP System to the market. Further, if the Queensbury, NY facility fails to obtain or maintain approvals under ISO 13485 and FDA cGMP, or current good manufacturing practice, facility inspection or audits, our ability to manufacture at the facility could be limited. 11 We do not have written contracts with all of our suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath PHP System. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary components, the commercialization of the Delcath PHP System could be delayed. Certain components, however, are available from only a limited number of sources. Components of the Delcath PHP System are currently manufactured for us in small quantities for use in our preclinical and clinical studies. We will require significantly greater quantities to commercialize the product. We may not be able to find alternate sources of comparable components. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components from our existing suppliers or need to switch to an alternate supplier and obtain FDA approval of that supplier, commercialization of the Delcath PHP System could be delayed. We have limited experience in marketing products, and as a result, we may not be successful in marketing and selling the Delcath PHP System even if we receive FDA approval. Delcath has not previously sold, marketed or distributed any products. In order to commercialize the Delcath PHP System or any other product successfully, we must acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure and/or enter into strategic alliances to perform these services. We intend to develop our own sales force to market our products in the United States, but we have limited experience in building a sales and marketing organization. The development of sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure is difficult, time consuming and requires substantial financial and other resources. If we cannot successfully develop the infrastructure to market and commercialize the Delcath PHP System, our ability to generate revenues may be harmed, and we may be required to enter into strategic alliances to have such activities carried out on our behalf, which may not be on favorable terms. Competition for sales and marketing personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our inability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or to reach an agreement with a third party could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to collaborate with an alliance partner to market our products outside of the United States, our efforts to commercialize the Delcath PHP System or any other product may be less successful. Our plan to use collaborative arrangements with third parties to help finance and to market and sell our product candidates may not be successful. We intend to enter into one or more strategic alliances to further address markets outside the United States and to fund the development of additional indications or for use with additional chemotherapy agents within the United States. We may not be able to enter into any additional alliances on acceptable terms, if at all, and may face competition in our search for alliances. Our collaborative relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of the Delcath PHP System or any other product or the generation of revenue. The success of any collaboration will be dependent upon the commitment of our collaborators and the timely performance of their obligations, both of which are beyond our control. The terms of any such collaborations may permit our collaborators to abandon the alliance at any time for any reason or prevent us from terminating arrangements with collaborators who do not perform in accordance with our expectations. In addition, any third parties with which we collaborate may have significant control over important aspects of the development and commercialization of our products, including research and development, market identification, marketing methods, pricing, composition of sales force and promotional activities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to control or influence the amount and timing of resources that any collaborator may devote to our research and development programs or the commercialization, marketing or distribution of our products. We may not be able to prevent any collaborators from pursuing alternative technologies or products that could result in the development of products that compete with our product candidates or the withdrawal of their support for our products. The failure of any such collaborations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Market acceptance of the Delcath PHP System will depend on substantial efforts within the healthcare arena. Market acceptance of the Delcath PHP System will depend upon a variety of factors including: Whether our clinical trials demonstrate significantly improved, cost effective patient outcomes; Our ability to educate physicians and drive acceptance of the use of the Delcath PHP System; Our ability to convince healthcare payors that use of the Delcath PHP System results in reduced treatment costs and improved outcomes for patients; Whether the Delcath PHP System replaces and/or complements treatment methods in which many hospitals have made a significant investment. Hospitals may be unwilling to replace their existing technology in light of their investment and experience with competing technologies; and Whether doctors and hospitals are reluctant to use a new medical technology until its value has been demonstrated. As a result, the Delcath PHP System may not gain significant market acceptance among physicians, hospitals, patients and healthcare payors. Rapid technological developments in treatment methods for liver cancer and competition with other forms of liver cancer treatments could affect our ability to achieve meaningful revenues or profit. Competition in the cancer treatment industry is intense. The Delcath PHP System competes with all forms of liver cancer treatments that are alternatives to the “gold standard” treatment of surgical resection. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and considerable experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. If these competitors develop more effective or more affordable products or treatment methods, or achieve earlier product development, our revenues or profitability will be substantially reduced. 12 The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. The loss of a member of our senior executive staff could delay our completion of the clinical trials, our obtaining FDA approval, our introducing the Delcath PHP System commercially and our generating revenues and profits. Competition for experienced personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Risk Related to Patents, Trade Secrets and Proprietary Rights Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties and commercialize the Delcath PHP System prior to the expiration of our patent protection. Due to the uncertainty of the patent prosecution process, there are no guarantees that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. Even if we are successful in obtaining a patent, there is no assurance that it will be upheld if later challenged or will provide significant protection or commercial advantage. Because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new medical combination products to the market, the healthcare industry has traditionally placed considerable emphasis on patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies. Other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us or may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. Companies in the medical drug/device industry may use intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. If this type of litigation is successful, a third party may be able to obtain an injunction prohibiting us from offering our product. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or assigned to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation could be costly and could divert our attention from our business. There are no guarantees that we will receive a favorable outcome in any such litigation. If others file patent applications with respect to inventions for which we already have patents issued to us or have patent applications pending, we may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could also be costly and could divert our attention from our business. If a third party violates our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to enforce our rights because of our limited resources. Use of our limited funds to enforce or to defend our intellectual property rights or to defend against legal proceedings alleging infringement of third party proprietary rights may also affect our financial condition adversely. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before the Delcath PHP System or any other product can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. Certain of our U.S. and foreign patents have already expired and other U.S. patents relating to the Delcath PHP System will expire beginning in 2012 through 2023. Similar considerations apply in any other country where we are prosecuting patent applications, have been issued patents, or have decided not to pursue patent protection relating to our technology. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States. Risk Related to Products Liability We may not carry sufficient products liability insurance and we may not be able to acquire sufficient coverage in the future to cover large claims. Clinical trials, manufacturing and product sales may expose us to liability claims from the use of the Delcath PHP System. Were such a claim asserted we would likely incur substantial legal and related expenses even if we prevail on the merits. Claims for damages, whether or not successful, could cause delays in the clinical trials and result in the loss of physician endorsement. A successful products liability claim or recall would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently carry clinical trial insurance coverage, but it may be insufficient to cover one or more large claims. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: results of our clinical trials; FDA delay or disapproval of our product; manufacturing difficulties; unexpected adverse events caused by the Delcath PHP System; actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; a challenge to one of our patents, either in court or via administrative proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office; and conditions generally affecting the healthcare and cancer treatment industries; and the success of our operating strategy. 13 Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential impact on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the range of the high and low last reported sales prices of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market have ranged from a high of $6.19 (during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009) to a low of $0.87 (during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008). During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the range of the high and low last reported sales prices of our common stock have ranged from a high of $6.19 (during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009) to a low of $1.18 (during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009). Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. As of December 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially owned approximately 12.3% of our common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: elect or defeat the election of our directors; amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and affect the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. Sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our warrants contain anti-dilution provisions that, if triggered, could cause dilution to our existing stockholders. The warrants issued in our September 2007 and June 2009 private placements contain anti-dilution provisions. The September 2007 Warrants are subject to “full ratchet” protection upon certain equity issuances below $3.44 per share (as may be further adjusted). The June 2009 Warrants are subject to an exercise price adjustment upon certain equity issuances below $3.60 per share (as may be further adjusted). In addition to the potential dilutive effect of these provisions, there is the potential that a large number of the shares may be sold in the public market at any given time, which could place additional downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and under our stockholder rights agreement may reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control, or make it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of our stockholders rights agreement could have the effect of making it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management at a time when a substantial number of our stockholders might favor a change in management. These provisions include: providing for a staggered board; and authorizing the board of directors to fill vacant directorships or increase the size of our board of directors. Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to determine the rights and preferences of the shares of any such series without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. Our board’s ability to issue preferred stock may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. We also have a stockholder rights agreement that could have the effect of substantially increasing the cost of acquiring us unless our board of directors supports the transaction even if the holders of a majority of our common stock are in favor of the transaction. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet the requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market for continued listing, our common stock could be delisted. To keep such listing, we are required to maintain: (i) a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, (ii) a certain public float, (iii) a certain number of round lot shareholders, and (iv) one of the following: a net income from continuing operations (in the latest fiscal year or two of the three last fiscal years) of at least $500,000, a market value of listed securities of at least $35 million or a stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million. We are presently in compliance with these requirements. We are also required to maintain certain corporate governance requirements. In the event that in the future we are notified that we no longer comply with NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements, and we fail to regain compliance within the applicable cure period, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price of the common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock were delisted, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and 14 accredited investors, generally institutions. These additional requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, holders of our common stock must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We have never declared or paid any dividends to the holders of our common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all earnings for use in connection with the expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Our board of directors will have the sole discretion in determining whether to declare and pay dividends in the future. The declaration of dividends will depend on our profitability, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our ability to pay cash dividends in the future could be limited or prohibited by the terms of financing agreements that we may enter into or by the terms of any preferred stock that we may authorize and issue. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 