Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected by any of these risks. If any of these risks occur, the value of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition If the Company is not successful in developing and obtaining regulatory approval of the Delcath chemosaturation system, or if the Company is unable to market and sell the system, Delcath will not generate operating revenue or become profitable. The Delcath chemosaturation system, a platform technology for the isolation of various organs or regions of the body to permit the regional delivery of high doses of drugs, is our only product. Our entire focus has been on developing, commercializing, and obtaining regulatory approvals of this product and currently we have only developed this system for the treatment of liver cancer with melphalan. If the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan fails as a commercial product, we have no other products to sell. Continuing losses may exhaust our capital resources. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $47.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and certificates of deposit. The Company has had no revenue to date, a substantial accumulated deficit, recurring operating losses and negative cash flow. Delcath expects to incur losses while generating minimal revenues over the next year. From our inception on August 5, 1988 through December 31, 2010, the Company has incurred cumulative net losses of approximately $114.6 million. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, Delcath incurred net losses of approximately $46.7 million, $22.1 million and $6.9 million, respectively. To date, Delcath has funded our operations through a combination of private placements of our securities and through the proceeds of our public offerings. If Delcath continues to incur losses, we may exhaust our capital resources, and as a result may be unable to complete our clinical trials, product development, regulatory approval process and commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan or any other versions of the system. 10 If the Company cannot raise the additional capital that may be required to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system, our potential to generate future revenues will be significantly limited even if Delcath receives FDA approval and/or foreign regulatory approvals, and if Delcath cannot raise additional capital generally, our business operations will be harmed. The FDA has informed us that the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan will be regulated as a drug. Before the Company can obtain approval to sell our product commercially in the United States, we will need approval from the FDA. Delcath will also need approval to market our products in foreign markets. The Company has submitted a §505 (b)(2) NDA to the FDA and a CE Mark application to our Notified Body in the EU, but currently the Delcath chemosaturation system has not been approved by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. If the Company obtains approval, we may require additional financing to commercialize our product in the United States and foreign markets. The Company does not know if additional financings will be available when needed, or if they are available, that they will be available on acceptable terms. If Delcath is unable to obtain additional financing as needed, we may not be able to complete our trials, obtain regulatory approvals or sell the Delcath chemosaturation system commercially. Our liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: · our research and product development programs, including clinical studies; · the timing and costs of our various United States and foreign regulatory filings, obtaining approvals and complying with regulations; · the timing and costs associated with developing our manufacturing operations; · Timing of product commercialization activities, including marketing arrangements overseas; · the timing and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing intellectual property rights; and · the impact of competing technological and market developments. Insufficient funds may require us to curtail or stop our research and development and commercialization activities. There are risks associated with forward-looking statements made by us and actual results may differ. Some of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "intend," "plan," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate" and "continue," or similar words. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they: · discuss our future expectations; · contain projections of our future results of operations or of our financial condition; and · state other "forward-looking" information. The Company believes it is important to communicate our expectations. However, there may be events in the future that the Company is not able to accurately predict and/or over which we have no control. The risk factors listed in this section, other risk factors about which we may not be aware, as well as any cautionary language in this Annual Report on Form 10-K provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations described in our forward-looking statements. You should be aware that the occurrence of the events described in these risk factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to FDA and Foreign Regulatory Approval The development and approval process may take many years, require substantial resources and may never lead to the approval of the Delcath chemosaturation system. Delcath does not have, and may never obtain, the regulatory approvals needed to market our product. Our failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Delcath chemosaturation system is subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation by the FDA, other regulatory agencies, and their respective foreign equivalents. The FDA regulates the research, development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, record keeping, reporting, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, import and export of pharmaceutical and medical device products. The Delcath system will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments if marketed abroad, whether or not FDA approval has been obtained for a given product and its uses. Government regulation substantially increases the cost of researching, developing, manufacturing and selling pharmaceutical products. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of our product, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. Delcath must obtain regulatory approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan and every other chemotherapeutic agent or other compound used with our system that we intend to market, and all the manufacturing facilities used to manufacture components or assemble our system must be inspected and meet legal requirements. Securing regulatory approval 11 requires the submission of extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and other supporting information for each proposed therapeutic indication in order to establish the product's safety, efficacy, potency and purity for each intended use. Moreover, approval policies or regulations may change. In December 2010, the Company submitted a CE Mark Technical File to our European Notified Body for the Delcath chemosaturation system to obtain CE Mark approval for our proprietary chemosaturation system, which Delcath intends to market in the European Economic Area, or EEA. The Company expects CE Mark approval in mid-2011. In December 2010, the Company also submitted our §505(b)(2) NDA to the FDA, seeking an indication for the percutaneous intra-arterial administration of melphalan hydrochloride for use in the treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma in the liver. In February 2011, the Company received a Refusal to File letter from the FDA for its NDA. Delcath has submitted a meeting request to the FDA and intends to meet with the FDA at the earliest opportunity to discuss the issues raised and to confirm our understanding of the remedies required for the resubmission of the filing. Based on management's current understanding of the information in the FDA's letter, the Company intends to resubmit the NDA by September 30, 2011. The Company will work closely with the FDA to fully understand the FDA's concerns and define a path forward for a successful resubmission of the application. If Delcath resubmits the NDA and subsequently receives a second Refusal to File letter from the FDA, or, if it is accepted but the Company does not obtain FDA approval, our ability to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system in the United States will be materially limited and the value of the Company and our results of operations will be harmed. The Company will not be able to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system until Delcath obtains FDA approval in the United States, CE Mark approval in the EEA or approval by comparable authorities in other countries. The development and approval process takes many years, requires substantial resources and may never lead to the approval of a product. Failure to obtain or delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals may: · adversely affect the commercialization of any products that Delcath develops; · impose additional costs on us; · diminish any competitive advantages that may be attained; and · adversely affect our receipt of revenues. If the Company does not obtain required approvals, Delcath may not be able to export or sell the Delcath chemosaturation system outside the U.S. market, which will limit our sales opportunities. In December 2010, the Company submitted a CE Mark Technical File to our European Notified Body to obtain CE Mark approval for our proprietary chemosaturation system. In Europe, we expect the system to be regulated as a device, and the CE mark application covers the device only. If Delcath does not receive CE Mark approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system, we will not be able to sell the Delcath chemosaturation system in the EEA or export the Delcath chemosaturation system from the United States for marketing in the EEA. In addition, regulatory approval is required before the Company can market the Delcath system in other parts of the world. If the FDA does not approve our applications or Delcath is not able to obtain approval from one or more other countries where we would like to sell the Delcath chemosaturation system, the Company will be unable to market the Delcath chemosaturation system as intended. If the Company is unable to market the Delcath system internationally because of an inability to obtain and maintain required approvals, our international market opportunity will be materially limited and the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. If the Company does not obtain regulatory approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agents, Delcath will not be able to market or sell the system in the United States. The FDA has informed us that the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agents will be regulated as a drug and we cannot sell or market the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agents without FDA approval. Although melphalan and other drugs have been FDA approved as chemotherapeutic agents, regulatory approval is required in the United States for the apparatus and associated drug including the specific indication, dose and route of administration of melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agent used in our system, which is substantially higher than prior approved doses of melphalan and such other drugs. If Delcath does not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our use of melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agents, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. 12 Even if the FDA grants approval of the Delcath chemosaturation system for the indications we intend to request, our ability to market the Delcath chemosaturation system would be limited to those uses, and Delcath will be subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight. Even if the FDA grants approval for use of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan in the treatment of ocular and cutaneous melanoma that has metastasized to the liver, our ability to market and promote the Delcath chemosaturation system in the United States would be limited to its indication for use with that drug in treating that disease. If the Company is unable to obtain FDA approval or successfully market the Delcath chemosaturation system for treatment of other diseases, organs and regions and with other drugs, our ability to generate revenue and grow will be limited. FDA approval may otherwise limit our sales practices and our ability to promote, sell and distribute the product, may require that the Company conduct costly post-marketing surveillance and ongoing post-marketing studies. Material changes to an approved product, such as manufacturing changes or revised labeling, may require further regulatory review and approval. Once obtained, any approvals may be withdrawn for a number of reasons, including the later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product. If Delcath or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, such noncompliance could result in: · refusals or delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications; · refusal of a regulatory authority, including the FDA, to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications; · warning letters; · fines; · import or export restrictions; · product recalls or seizures; · injunctions; · total or partial suspension of clinical trials or production; · civil penalties; · withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications or licenses; · recommendations by the FDA or other regulatory authorities against entering into governmental contracts with us; or · criminal prosecutions. If future clinical trials are unsuccessful or significantly delayed, or if the Company does not complete our clinical trials, Delcath may not be able to market the Delcath chemosaturation system for other indications. The Company may be required to provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with pre-clinical and clinical data to demonstrate that the Delcath chemosaturation system is safe and effective for each indication before it can be approved for commercialization. The pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of our chemosaturation system with melphalan or any other chemotherapeutic agent or compound the Company uses in our system must comply with the regulations of numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays. The Company may encounter delays or rejections for various reasons, including our inability to enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials. In 2010, the Company concluded a Phase III clinical trial of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan in patients with metastatic ocular and cutaneous melanoma to the liver and recently completed a multi-arm Phase II clinical trial of the Delcath system with melphalan in patients with primary and metastatic melanoma stratified into four arms. Our Phase III metastatic melanoma clinical trial has successfully met the study's primary endpoint of extended hPFS in patients with melanoma metastases to the liver. Delcath intends to conduct other clinical trials for other indications, and it may take several years to complete the testing of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan, other chemotherapeutic agents or other compounds for use in the treatment of the indications Delcath wishes to obtain approval of, and failure can occur at any stage of development, for many reasons, including: · any pre-clinical or clinical test may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; · pre-clinical or clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; · negative or inconclusive results from a pre-clinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a pre-clinical study or clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful; · the FDA can place a clinical hold on a trial if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury; · we may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we are developing a system or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval; · our clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any system or result in marketable products; · the FDA may request additional clinical trials relating to our NDA submissions; 13 · the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations that may negatively affect or delay our ability to bring a system to market or require additional clinical trials; and · a system may not be approved for all the requested indications. Delcath relies on third parties to conduct certain of the clinical trials for our chemosaturation system, and if they do not perform their obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our system. Delcath designs the clinical trials for the Delcath chemosaturation system, but we rely on academic institutions, corporate partners, contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials. Accordingly, Delcath may have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. Although the Company relies on these third parties to manage the data from these clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements, and we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system if these requirements are not met. Third-party reimbursement may not be available to purchasers of the Delcath chemosaturation system or may be inadequate, resulting in lower sales even if FDA or other foreign regulatory approval is granted. Physicians, hospitals and other health care providers may be reluctant to purchase the Delcath chemosaturation system if they do not receive substantial reimbursement for the cost of using our product from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance plans, and foreign equivalents. The Delcath chemosaturation system is currently not approved by the FDA. Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans will not reimburse its use in the United States due to the currently unapproved nature of the product. Delcath will seek reimbursement by third-party payors of the cost of the Delcath system after its use is approved by the FDA. The Company has applied for, but has not yet received CE mark approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system. Without such approval, third-party payors and government health agencies of member states of the EEA will not reimburse its use. If we obtain CE mark for the Delcath chemosaturation system, Delcath also intends to seek third party or government reimbursement within those countries within the EEA where we expect to market and sell the Delcath chemosaturation system. There are no assurances that third-party payors in the United States or abroad will agree to cover the cost of procedures using the Delcath chemosaturation system at all or at rates that are adequate to cover the actual costs. Further, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that the Delcath chemosaturation system is not used in accordance with established payor protocols regarding cost effective treatment methods or is used for forms of cancer or with drugs not specifically approved by the FDA or other foreign regulatory bodies. Risks Related to Manufacturing, Commercialization and Market Acceptance of the Delcath Chemosaturation System The Company purchases components for the Delcath chemosaturation system from third parties, some of which are sole-source suppliers. All of the manufacturers of the components for the Delcath chemosaturation system must comply with a number of FDA and foreign regulatory agency requirements and regulations. If Delcath or one of our suppliers fails to meet such requirements, we may need to change suppliers. If the Company is unable to successfully change suppliers, the successful completion of some of our clinical trials and/or commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system could be jeopardized. The components of the Delcath system, including catheters, filters, introducers and chemotherapy agents, must be manufactured and assembled in accordance with approved manufacturing and predetermined performance specifications of the Delcath chemosaturation system on file with the FDA, certain foreign regulatory agencies and meet cGMP, or current good manufacturing practice, and quality systems requirements. Some states also have similar regulations. Many of the components of the Delcath chemosaturation system are manufactured by sole-source suppliers that may have proprietary manufacturing processes. If Delcath or any of our suppliers fail to meet those regulatory obligations, the Company may be forced to suspend or terminate our clinical trials, and once a product is approved for marketing, the manufacture, assembly or distribution thereof. Further, if Delcath needs to find a new source of supply, we may face long interruptions in obtaining necessary components for the Delcath chemosaturation system, in obtaining FDA or foreign regulatory agency approval of these components and in establishing the manufacturing process, which could jeopardize our ability to supply the Delcath chemosaturation system to the market. 14 If the Company cannot maintain or enter into acceptable arrangements for the production of melphalan and other chemotherapeutic agents we will be unable to successfully commercialize the Delcath system in the United States. The Company has entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with Synerx Pharma, LLC (Synerx) and Bioniche Teoranta, an affiliate of Mylan, Inc. (Bioniche), for the supply of our branded melphalan hydrochloride for injection. The agreement with Synerx and Bioniche currently represents our sole source of branded melphalan in the United States. Delcath intends to pursue agreements with additional contract manufacturers to produce melphalan and other chemotherapeutic agents that we will use in the future for the commercialization of the Delcath system, as well as for labeling and finishing services. Delcath may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. To manufacture melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agents on our own, we would first have to develop a manufacturing facility that complies with FDA requirements and regulations for melphalan and each other chemotherapeutic agent we choose to manufacture for our system. Developing these resources would be an expensive and lengthy process and would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. If Delcath is unable to obtain sufficient melphalan and labeling services on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our current and future suppliers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially harmed. There is only one approved third-party manufacturer of melphalan in the EEA. If this manufacturer fails to provide end-users with adequate supplies of melphalan or fails to comply with the requirements of regulatory authorities, the Company may be unable to successfully commercialize our product in the EEA. Under the regulatory scheme in the EEA, the Delcath chemosaturation system will be approved for marketing as a device only, and doctors will separately obtain melphalan for use with the Delcath chemosaturation system. Although melphalan hydrochloride has been approved in the EEA for over a decade, we are aware that there is currently only one approved manufacturer of melphalan in the EEA, with whom we have no supply arrangements or other affiliation and therefore we will not have any control over the quality, availability, price or labeling of melphalan in that market. As a result, there may not be sufficient supply of melphalan for use with our system, and any adverse change in the sole manufacturer's commercial operations or regulatory approval status may seriously impair our sales opportunities in the EEA. In the future, we intend to enter into a third party supply agreement for the manufacture of melphalan and apply for regulatory approval of the drug for use specifically with our chemosaturation system in the EEA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into a supply agreement for melphalan in the EEA or that the terms and conditions of any agreement will be favorable to Delcath or that Delcath will receive regulatory approval for its labeled melphalan in the EEA. If the Company cannot successfully manufacture the Delcath chemosaturation system our ability to develop and commercialize the system would be impaired. Our ability to conduct timely clinical trials to obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system depends on our ability to manufacture the system, including the chemotherapeutic agents or other compounds, either directly or through third-parties, in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. Delcath intends to assemble, sterilize and package the Delcath system at our Queensbury, NY facility and will rely on third-party suppliers for a number of components of our system, including melphalan. The Company has a limited manufacturing history and we may not be able to manufacture the system in commercial quantities or in a cost-effective manner. In addition, Delcath may have difficulty obtaining components for the system from our third-party suppliers in a timely manner or at all which may adversely affect our ability to deliver the system to purchasers. Further, if our Queensbury, NY facility fails to obtain or maintain approvals under ISO 13485 and FDA cGMP or fails to pass facility inspection or audits, our ability to manufacture at the facility could be limited or terminated. The Company does not have written contracts with all of our suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath chemosaturation system. Delcath does not have written contracts with all our suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath chemosaturation system and if we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary components or negotiate acceptable terms, the commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system could be delayed and we may not be able to manufacture the system in commercial quantities or in a cost-effective manner. Certain components, however, are available from only a limited number of sources. Components of the Delcath system are currently manufactured for us in small quantities for use in our preclinical and clinical studies. Delcath will require significantly greater quantities to commercialize the product. The Company may not be able to find alternate sources of comparable components. If Delcath is unable to obtain adequate supplies of components from our existing suppliers or need to switch to an alternate supplier and obtain FDA or other regulatory agency approval of that supplier, commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system could be delayed. 15 Delcath has limited experience in marketing products, and as a result, the Company may not be successful in marketing and selling the Delcath chemosaturation system even if we receive FDA or other foreign regulatory approvals. Delcath has not previously sold, marketed or distributed any products. In order to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system or any other product successfully, we must acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure and/or enter into strategic alliances to perform these services. The Company intends to develop our own sales force to market our products in the United States, but we have limited experience in building a sales and marketing organization. The development of sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure is difficult, time consuming and requires substantial financial and other resources. If Delcath cannot successfully develop the infrastructure to market and commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system, our ability to generate revenues may be harmed, and Delcath may be required to enter into strategic alliances to have such activities carried out on our behalf, which may not be on favorable terms. Competition for sales and marketing personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our inability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or to reach an agreement with a third party could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Outside the United States the Company intends to market our products primarily through strategic partners and distributors except in a few specific foreign countries within the EEA where the Company intends to market the Delcath chemosaturation system on a direct basis. If Delcath is not able to collaborate with an alliance partner to market our products outside of the United States, our efforts to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system or any other product may be less successful. Our plan to use collaborative arrangements with third parties to help finance and to market and sell the Delcath chemosaturation system may not be successful. In addition to a research and distribution agreement the Company entered into with Chi-Fu Trading Co., Ltd., a Taiwanese company, on February 9, 2010, Delcath intends to enter into one or more strategic alliances to further address markets outside the United States and to help fund the development of additional indications or for use with additional chemotherapy agents within the United States. The Company may not be able to enter into any additional alliances on acceptable terms, if at all, and may face competition in our search for alliances. Our collaborative relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system or any other product or the generation of revenue. The success of any collaboration will be dependent upon the commitment of our collaborators and the timely performance of their obligations, both of which are beyond our control. The terms of any such collaboration may permit our collaborators to abandon the alliance at any time for any reason or prevent us from terminating arrangements with collaborators who do not perform in accordance with our expectations. In addition, any third parties with which Delcath collaborates may have significant control over important aspects of the development and commercialization of our products, including research and development, market identification, marketing methods, pricing, composition of sales force and promotional activities. Delcath is not able to control or influence the amount and timing of resources that any collaborator may devote to our research and development programs or the commercialization, marketing or distribution of our products. The Company may not be able to prevent any collaborators from pursuing alternative technologies or products that could result in the development of products that compete with the Delcath chemosaturation system or the withdrawal of their support for our products. The failure of any such collaboration could have a material adverse effect on our business. If Delcath does not receive CE Mark Approval, or our commercialization strategy is not successful in the European Economic Area, the Company will not be able to commercialize or sell the Delcath chemosaturation system in the European Economic Area. The Company has applied for CE Mark approval in order to market the Delcath chemosaturation system in the EEA. CE Marking is an indication that a medical device complies with the essential requirements of applicable medical device directives, and that the device has been subjected to conformity assessment procedures. Receipt of the CE Mark will allow us to market and sell the Delcath chemosaturation system in countries in the EEA. If Delcath does not receive CE Mark approval, we will be prohibited from selling the Delcath chemosaturation system in the EEA. If Delcath receives CE Mark approval, we intend to pursue a two-pronged commercialization strategy in the EEA under which we will directly market the Delcath chemosaturation system in certain markets and enter into agreements with third-party distributors in others. Delcath currently has no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities in any countries in the EEA. If Delcath is unable to obtain those capabilities, either by developing our own organizations or entering into agreements with service providers, even if our product candidate receives marketing approval in the EEA, we will not be able to successfully sell our product there. In addition, Delcath may not be able to hire the qualified sales and marketing personnel we need or be able to enter into marketing or distribution agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. 16 Market acceptance of the Delcath chemosaturation system will depend on substantial efforts within the healthcare arena. Market acceptance of the Delcath chemosaturation system will depend upon a variety of factors including: · Whether our clinical trials demonstrate significantly improved patient outcomes; · Our ability to educate physicians and drive acceptance of the use of the Delcath chemosaturation system; · Our ability to convince healthcare payors that use of the Delcath chemosaturation system results in reduced treatment costs and improved outcomes for patients; · Whether the Delcath chemosaturation system replaces and/or complements treatment methods in which many hospitals have made a significant investment. Hospitals may be unwilling to replace their existing technology in light of their investment and experience with competing technologies; and · Whether doctors and hospitals are reluctant to use a new medical technology until its value has been demonstrated. As a result, the Delcath chemosaturation system may not gain significant market acceptance among physicians, hospitals, patients and healthcare payors. Rapid technological developments in treatment methods for liver cancer and competition with other forms of liver cancer treatments could affect our ability to achieve meaningful revenues or profit. Competition in the cancer treatment industry is intense. The Delcath chemosaturation system competes with all forms of liver cancer treatments that are alternatives to the "gold standard" treatment of surgical resection. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and considerable experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. If these competitors develop more effective or more affordable products or treatment methods, or achieve earlier product development, our revenues or profitability will be substantially reduced. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. The loss of a member of our senior executive staff could delay our obtaining FDA approval, our introducing the Delcath chemosaturation system commercially and our generating revenues and profits. Competition for experienced personnel is intense. If Delcath cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Patents, Trade Secrets and Proprietary Rights Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties and commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system prior to the expiration of our patent protection. Due to the uncertainty of the patent prosecution process, there are no guarantees that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. Even if Delcath is successful in obtaining a patent, there is no assurance that it will be upheld if later challenged or will provide significant protection or commercial advantage. Because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new medical drugs and devices to the market, the healthcare industry has traditionally placed considerable emphasis on patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies. Other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us or may design around technologies the Company has patented, licensed or developed. Companies in the medical drug/device industry may use intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. In the United States, patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not publicly available until the patent issues. As a result, avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or assigned to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation could be costly and could divert our attention from our business. There are no guarantees that Delcath will receive a favorable outcome in any such litigation. If a third party claims that Delcath infringed its patents, any of the following may occur: · Delcath may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technologies infringe upon a competitor's patent; · a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and · Delcath may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others' patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. 17 If others file patent applications with respect to inventions for which Delcath already has patents issued to us or have patent applications pending, the Company may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could also be costly and could divert our attention from our business. If a third party violates our intellectual property rights, Delcath may be unable to enforce our rights because of our limited resources. Use of our limited funds to enforce or to defend our intellectual property rights or to defend against legal proceedings alleging infringement of third party proprietary rights may also affect our financial condition adversely. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before the Delcath chemosaturation system or any other product can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. Certain of our United States and foreign patents have already expired and other United States patents relating to the Delcath chemosaturation system will expire beginning in 2012 through 2016. Similar considerations apply in any other country where the Company is prosecuting patent applications, have been issued patents, or have decided not to pursue patent protection relating to our technology. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States. Risks Related to Products Liability If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, the Company might incur substantial liabilities and could be required to limit the commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our system. In addition, because the Delcath chemosaturation system is intended for use in patients with cancer, there is an increased risk of death among the patients treated with our system which may increase the risk of product liability lawsuits. The Company may be subject to claims against us even if the injury is due to the actions of others. For example, if the medical personnel that use our system on patients are not properly trained or are negligent in the use of our system, the patient may be injured through the use of our system, which may subject us to claims. If Delcath is involved in any product liability litigation, such litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and might result in adverse publicity, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the litigation. The Company may be the subject of product liability claims or product recalls, and we may be unable to maintain insurance adequate to cover potential liabilities. Clinical trials, manufacturing and product sales may expose us to liability claims from the use of the Delcath chemosaturation system. Were such a claim asserted Delcath would likely incur substantial legal and related expenses even if we prevail on the merits. Claims for damages, whether or not successful, could cause delays in clinical trials and result in the loss of physician endorsement, adverse publicity and/or limit our ability to market and sell the system, resulting in loss of revenue. In addition, it may be necessary for us to recall products that do not meet approved specifications, which would also result in adverse publicity, as well as resulting in costs connected to the recall and loss of revenue. A successful products liability claim or product recall would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Delcath currently carries product liability and clinical trial insurance coverage, but it may be insufficient to cover one or more large claims. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: · results of our clinical trials; · regulatory delays, non-acceptance or non-approval of our product; · manufacturing difficulties; · unexpected adverse events caused by the Delcath chemosaturation system; · product recalls; · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; · announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; 18 · a challenge to one of our patents, either in court or via administrative proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office; · conditions generally affecting the healthcare and cancer treatment industries; and · the success of our operating strategy. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential impact on the price of our common stock. The Company cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile. During the three years ended December 31, 2010, the range of the high and low last reported sales prices of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market have ranged from a high of $16.18 (during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010) to a low of $0.87 (during the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008). During the 12 months ended December 31, 2010, the range of the high and low last reported sales prices of our common stock have ranged from a high of $16.18 (during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010) to a low of $4.31 (during the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010). Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. As of December 31, 2010, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially owned approximately 7.0% of our common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: · elect or defeat the election of our directors; · amend or prevent amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; · effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and · affect the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. Sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our warrants contain anti-dilution provisions that, if triggered, could cause dilution to our existing stockholders. The warrants issued in our September 2007 and June 2009 private placements contain anti-dilution provisions. The September 2007 warrants are subject to "full ratchet" protection upon certain equity issuances below $3.44 per share (as may be further adjusted). The June 2009 warrants are subject to an exercise price adjustment upon certain equity issuances below $3.60 per share (as may be further adjusted). In addition to the potential dilutive effect of these provisions, there is the potential that a large number of the shares may be sold in the public market at any given time, which could place additional downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and under our stockholder rights agreement may reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control, or make it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of our stockholders rights agreement could have the effect of making it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management at a time when a substantial number of our stockholders might favor a change in management. These provisions include: · providing for a staggered board; and · authorizing the board of directors to fill vacant directorships or increase the size of our board of directors. Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to determine the rights and preferences of the shares of any such series without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. Our board's ability to issue preferred stock may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. Delcath also has a stockholder rights agreement that could have the effect of substantially increasing the cost of acquiring us unless our board of directors supports the transaction even if the holders of a majority of our common stock are in favor of the transaction. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. If the Company fails to meet the requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market for continued listing, our common stock could be delisted. To keep such listing, Delcath is required to maintain: (i) a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, (ii) a certain public float, 19 (iii) a certain number of round lot shareholders, and (iv) one of the following: a net income from continuing operations (in the latest fiscal year or two of the three last fiscal years) of at least $500,000, a market value of listed securities of at least $35 million or a stockholders' equity of at least $2.5 million. Delcath is presently in compliance with these requirements. The Company is also required to maintain certain corporate governance requirements. In the event that in the future we are notified that we no longer comply with NASDAQ's corporate governance requirements, and we fail to regain compliance within the applicable cure period, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, the Company may be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price of the common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock were delisted, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a "penny stock" and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. These additional requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The Company has never declared or paid any dividends to the holders of our common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Delcath currently intends to retain all earnings for use in connection with the expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Our board of directors will have the sole discretion in determining whether to declare and pay dividends in the future. The declaration of dividends will depend on our profitability, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our ability to pay cash dividends in the future could be limited or prohibited by the terms of financing agreements that Delcath may enter into or by the terms of any preferred stock that we may authorize and issue. Delcath does not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, holders of our common stock must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other stockholdings. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had an aggregate of 26,971,850 shares of common stock authorized but unissued. Subject to certain volume limitations imposed by The NASDAQ Capital Market, Delcath may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our shareholders. Delcath may expand our business through complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies and assets, and we may issue shares of common stock in connection with those acquisitions or otherwise. Any shares issued in connection with these activities, the exercise of stock options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by our investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 