Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following factors, as well as the other information set forth in this prospectus, prior to making an investment in our securities. If any of the following risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In this event, the trading price of our securities may decline and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition The following factors relate to risks that are material to our business and financial condition. If any of the possible events we describe below turns out to be the case, our business may be adversely affected and we may be forced to cease or curtail our operations which may result in the loss of your entire investment. Our entire focus has been the development and commercialization of the Delcath system. If we are not successful in that development and commercialization, or if we are unable to market and sell the product, we will not generate operating revenue or become profitable. The Delcath system, an enabling technology for the isolation of various organs in the body to permit the delivery of otherwise unacceptably toxic doses of drugs, is our only product. If the Delcath system fails as a commercial product, we have no other products to sell. Continuing losses may exhaust our capital resources. We have had no revenue to date, a substantial accumulated deficit, recurring operating losses and negative cash flow. We expect to incur significant and increasing losses while generating minimal revenues over the next few years. From our inception on August 5, 1988 through December 31, 2006, we have incurred cumulative losses of $35.3 million which were principally incurred in connection with our product development efforts and, in 2006, legal expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2006, we incurred net losses of $2.9 million and $11.0 million, respectively. We have funded our operations through a combination of private placements of our securities and through the proceeds of our public offerings in 2000 and 2003. Please see the detailed discussion of our various sales of securities described in Note 2 to our 2006 financial statements that are included herein. In addition, we received proceeds of approximately $5.6 million from private placements we completed in 2004, approximately $2.2 on exercise of warrants and options in 2004, approximately $2.5 million from a private placement we completed in 2005, approximately $5.5 million on exercise of warrants and options in 2005; and approximately $5.1 million on exercise of warrants and options in 2006. If we continue to incur losses we may exhaust our capital resources resulting in our being unable to complete the development and commercialization of our product. As we incur additional losses, our accumulated deficit will further increase. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $8.7 million. 15 We will likely need additional funding to complete the required clinical trials and our efforts to raise additional financing may be unsuccessful. Before we can obtain approval to sell our product commercially, we will need premarket approval from the FDA which, in turn, requires that we complete clinical trials to establish the effectiveness of our system. We will likely need additional funding to complete the required clinical trials, and we may not be able to raise additional funds on reasonable terms or at all. Many of the costs incurred in conducting clinical trials are due to uncertainties that are not within our control, including (i) the possibility that the FDA may require additional trials and the number of trials that may be required; (ii) the charges payable to each current or prospective clinical test site which may be a flat fee for a certain time period or a fee based on the number of participants in the trial; (iii) the amount of the fee per participant which is individually negotiated with each test site; (iv) the number of patients that may be required to be enrolled in any particular trial; (v) the location of the test site which can affect our other costs, including the costs of retaining a clinical research organization and out of pocket costs such as travel; (vi) the actual number of treatments per patient in each clinical trial; and (vii) the possible reduction in trial costs billed to the Company where a patient's insurer agrees to cover treatment expenses. As a result, we are unable to estimate the total costs we will incur in completing the clinical trials. In addition, completion of the clinical trials does not guarantee that the FDA will give us the required approvals in a timely manner or will give them to us at all. If we do not raise any additional capital that may be required to commercialize the Delcath system, our potential to generate future revenues will be significantly limited even if we receive FDA premarket approval. Our current resources may not be sufficient to complete Phase III clinical trials using melphalan or other clinical trials that we may pursue and will be insufficient to fund the costs of commercializing the Delcath system which will be significant. We have no commitments for any additional financing. If we are unable to obtain additional financing as needed, we will not be able to sell the system commercially. Risks Related to FDA and Foreign Regulatory Approval The following factors relate to risks that are material to obtaining FDA and foreign regulatory approval. If any of the events we describe below turns out to be the case, our business may be adversely affected and we may be forced to cease or curtail our operations which may result in the loss of your entire investment. Even if the FDA grants premarket approval for use of the Delcath system for the treatment of melanoma that has metastasized to the liver with melphalan, our ability to market the device would be limited to that use. Separate FDA approval would be needed to market the system for use with other drugs or to treat other diseases. Lack of such specific approvals will limit our ability to market our product. If the FDA grants premarket approval for use of the Delcath system in the treatment of melanoma that has metastasized to the liver with melphalan, our ability to market the system would be limited to its use with that drug in treating that disease. Thereafter, physicians could use the system for the treatment of other cancers or using other drugs ("off label" use), but we could not market it for such uses. This would limit our ability to market our product and could result in substantially reduced sales. If we do not obtain FDA premarket approval, we may not be able to export the Delcath system to foreign markets, which will limit our sales opportunities. If the FDA does not approve our application for premarket approval for the Delcath system, we will not be able to export the Delcath system from the United States for marketing abroad unless approval has been obtained from one of a number of developed nations. If we do not have such approval, we will not be eligible to use a simplified registration process for the Delcath system in a number of countries including the members of the European Union, Great Britain and Australia. We have not begun to seek foreign regulatory approval and may not be able to obtain approval from one or more countries where we would like to sell the Delcath system. If we are unable to market the Delcath system internationally because we are not able to obtain required approvals, our international market opportunity will be materially limited. 16 Because of our limited experience, conduct of clinical trials and obtaining FDA premarket approval could be delayed. We have experienced and may continue to experience delays in conducting and completing required clinical trials, caused by many factors, including our limited experience: o in arranging for clinical trials; o in evaluating and submitting the data gathered from clinical trials; o in designing trials to conform to the trial protocols authorized by the FDA; o in complying with the requirements of institutional review boards at the sites where the trials may be conducted; and o in identifying clinical test sites and sponsoring physicians. Completion of our clinical trials will also depend on the ability of the clinical test sites to identify patients to enroll in the clinical trials since the population of appropriate subjects (i.e., patients with melanoma that has metastasized to the liver) is limited. The trials may also take longer to complete because of difficulties we may encounter in entering into agreements with clinical testing sites to conduct the trials. Any significant delay in completing clinical trials or in the FDA's responding to our submission or a requirement by the FDA for us to conduct additional trials would delay the commercialization of the Delcath system and our ability to generate revenues. Third-party reimbursement may not be available to purchasers of the Delcath system or may be inadequate, resulting in lower sales even if FDA premarket approval is granted. Physicians, hospitals and other health care providers may be reluctant to purchase our system if they do not receive substantial reimbursement for the cost of the procedures using our products from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans. Because the Delcath system currently is characterized by the FDA as an experimental device, Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans will not reimburse its use in the United States. We will not begin to seek to have third-party payors reimburse the cost of the Delcath system until after its use is approved by the FDA. Each third-party payor independently determines whether and to what extent it will reimburse for a medical procedure or product. Third-party payors in the United States or abroad may decide not to cover procedures using the Delcath system. Further, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that the Delcath system is not used in accordance with established payor protocols regarding cost effective treatment methods or is used for forms of cancer or with drugs not specifically approved by the FDA. New products are under increased scrutiny as to whether or not they will be covered by the various healthcare plans and the level of reimbursement which will be applicable to respective covered products and procedures. A third-party payor may deny reimbursement for the treatment and medical costs associated with the Delcath system, notwithstanding FDA or other regulatory approval, if that payor determines that the Delcath system is unnecessary, inappropriate, not cost effective, experimental or is used for a non-approved indication. Risks Related to Manufacturing, Commercialization and Market Acceptance of the Delcath System We obtain necessary components for the Delcath system from sole-source suppliers. Because manufacturers must demonstrate compliance with FDA requirements, if our present suppliers fail to meet such requirements or if we change any supplier, the successful completion of the clinical trials and/or the commercialization of the Delcath system could be jeopardized. We must ensure that the components of the Delcath system are manufactured in accordance with manufacturing and performance specifications of the Delcath system on file with the FDA and with drug and device good manufacturing practice requirements. Many of the components of the Delcath system are manufactured by sole source suppliers. If any of our suppliers fails to meet our needs, or if we need to seek an alternate source of supply, we may be forced to suspend or terminate our clinical trials. Further, if we need a new source of supply after commercial introduction of 17 the Delcath system, we may face long interruptions in obtaining necessary components, which could jeopardize our ability to supply the Delcath system to the market. Currently the Delcath system kit is being manufactured domestically by the OEM division of B. Braun Medical, Inc. of Germany which also supplies the other catheters and accessories and assembles the Delcath system kit. Medtronic USA, Inc. currently manufactures the components of the blood filtration circuit located outside of the body, including the medical tubing through which the patient's blood flows and various connectors and the blood filtration pump head. The Company purchases activated charcoal filters used in the Delcath system from a single supplier. We do not have any contracts with suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath system. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary components, we may not be able timely to complete our clinical trials. We do not have any contracts with suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath system. Certain components are available from only a limited number of sources. To date, we have only had components of the Delcath system manufactured for us in small quantities for use in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. We will require significantly greater quantities to commercialize the product. Notwithstanding our best efforts, we may not be able to find an alternate source of comparable components. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components from our existing suppliers or need to switch to an alternate supplier, commercialization of the Delcath system could be delayed. Because of our limited experience in marketing products and our lack of adequate personnel to market and sell products, we may not be successful in marketing and selling the Delcath system even if we receive FDA premarket approval. We have not previously sold, marketed or distributed any products and currently do not have the personnel, resources, experience or other capabilities to market the Delcath system adequately. Our success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or our reaching an agreement with a third party to market our product. Competition for sales and marketing personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our inability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or to reach an agreement with a third party could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market acceptance of the Delcath system will depend on substantial efforts and expenditures in an area with which we have limited experience. Market acceptance of the Delcath system will depend upon a variety of factors including whether our clinical trials demonstrate a significant reduction in the mortality rate for the kinds of cancers treated on a cost-effective basis, our ability to educate physicians on the use of the Delcath system and our ability to convince healthcare payors that use of the Delcath system results in reduced treatment costs to patients. We have only limited experience in these areas and we may not be successful in achieving these goals. Moreover, the Delcath system replaces treatment methods in which many hospitals have made a significant investment. Hospitals may be unwilling to replace their existing technology in light of their investment and experience with competing technologies. Many doctors and hospitals are reluctant to use a new medical technology until its value has been demonstrated. As a result, the Delcath system may not gain significant market acceptance among physicians, hospitals, patients and healthcare payors. Rapid technological developments in treatment methods for liver cancer and competition with other forms of liver cancer treatments could result in a short product life cycle for the Delcath system. Competition in the cancer treatment industry, particularly in the markets for systems and devices to improve the outcome of chemotherapy treatment, is intense. The Delcath system competes with all forms of liver cancer treatments that are alternatives to the "gold standard" treatment of surgical resection. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources, especially financial and technological. In addition, some of our competitors have considerable experience in conducting clinical trials and other regulatory procedures. These competitors are developing systems and devices to improve the outcome of chemotherapy treatment for liver cancer. If these competitors develop more effective or more affordable products or treatment methods, our profitability will be substantially reduced and the Delcath system could have a short product life cycle. 18 We believe that our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Operating Officer are important to our efforts to commercialize the Delcath system. The unavailability of the services of either of them could delay our successful commercial introduction of the Delcath system. The loss of the services of either our Chief Executive Officer or our Chief Operating Officer could delay our completing the clinical trials, our obtaining FDA premarket approval, our introducing the Delcath system commercially and our generating revenues and profits. We do not have an employment agreement with either of them. Risks Related to Patents, Trade Secrets and Proprietary Rights Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new medical devices to the market, the healthcare industry has traditionally placed considerable emphasis on patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or assigned to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation could be costly and could divert our attention from our business. If others file patent applications with respect to inventions for which we already have patents issued to us or have patent applications pending, we may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could also be costly and could divert our attention from our business. If a third party violates our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to enforce our rights because of our limited resources. Use of our limited funds to defend our intellectual property rights may also affect our financial condition adversely. Risks Related to Products Liability We do not currently carry products liability insurance and we may not be able to acquire sufficient coverage in the future to cover large claims. Clinical trials, manufacturing and product sales may expose us to liability claims from the use of the Delcath system. Though participants in clinical trials are generally required to execute consents and waivers of liability, a court might find such consents and waivers of liability to be ineffective or invalid. Were such a claim asserted and even if we prevail on the merits, we would likely incur substantial legal and related expenses. Claims for damages, whether or not successful, could cause delays in the clinical trials and result in the loss of physician endorsement. A successful products liability claim or recall would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities The following factors relate to risks that are material to an investment in our common stock. Any of these factors could result in lowering the market value of our common stock and other securities that we might issue. There is a relatively limited public float of our common stock. Because of this, trades of relatively small amounts of our common stock can have a disproportionate effect on the market price for our common stock. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile. During the three years ended December 31, 2006, the range of the high and low sales prices of our common stock have ranged from a high of $6.00 (during the quarter ended June 30, 2006) to a low of $0.92 (during the quarter ended March 31, 2004). Sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and under our stockholder rights agreement may reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control, and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of our stockholders rights plan could make it more difficult for the Company's stockholders to replace management. 19 Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our stockholders rights agreement may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder might consider favorable. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of our stockholders rights agreement could have the effect of making it more difficult for the Company's stockholders to replace management at a time when a substantial number of our stockholders would favor a change in management. These include provisions: o providing for a classified board; and o authorizing the board of directors to fill vacant directorships or increase the size of our board of directors. Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix the rights and preferences of the shares of any such series without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. Our board's ability to issue preferred stock may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock and warrants. We also have a stockholder rights agreement which could have the effect of substantially increasing the cost of acquiring us unless our board of directors supports the transaction even if the holders of a majority of our common stock are in favor of the transaction. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we fail to meet the requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market for continued listing, our common stock could be delisted. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. To keep such listing, we are required to maintain: (i) a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, (ii) a certain public float, (iii) a certain number of round lot shareholders and (iv) one of the following: a net income from continuing operations (in the latest fiscal year or two of the three last fiscal years ) of at least $500,000, a market value of listed securities of at least $35 million or a stockholders' equity of at least $2.5 million. We were notified by the Nasdaq Capital Market on one occasion that we failed to meet the minimum bid price requirement and on two occasions that we did not meet the requirement that we meet one of the following conditions: that the market value of our common stock be at least $35 million; that we have stockholders' equity of not less than $2.5 million; or that we meet certain income tests. If we do not meet all of the applicable criteria, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, we may be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market and the trading price of the common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock were delisted, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. 