risk factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 BACK Risks Related to FDA and Foreign Regulatory Approval Even if the FDA grants pre-market approval for use of the Delcath PHP System™ for the treatment of melanoma that has metastasized to the liver with melphalan, our ability to market the device would be limited to that use. If the FDA grants pre-market approval for use of the Delcath PHP System™ in the treatment of melanoma that has metastasized to the liver with the drug melphalan, our ability to market the System would be limited to its use with that drug in treating that disease. Thereafter, physicians could use the System for the treatment of other cancers or use other drugs (“off-label” use), but we could not market it for such uses, unless we obtained separate FDA approval to market the System for use with those other drugs or diseases. If we do not obtain FDA pre-market approval, we may not be able to export the Delcath PHP System™ to foreign markets, which will limit our sales opportunities. If the FDA does not approve our application for pre-market approval for the Delcath PHP System™, we will not be able to export the Delcath PHP System™ from the United States for marketing abroad unless approval has been obtained from one of a number of developed nations. We may not be able to obtain approval from one or more countries where we would like to sell the Delcath PHP System™. If we are unable to market the Delcath PHP System™ internationally because we are unable to obtain required approvals, our international market opportunity will be materially limited. Conduct of clinical trials and obtaining FDA pre-market approval could be delayed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in conducting and completing required clinical trials, caused by many factors. The pace of completion of these clinical trials will be dependent on a number of factors, some of which are out of our control. Completion of our clinical trials depends heavily on the ability of the clinical test sites to identify patients to enroll in the clinical trials. The population of appropriate patients (i.e., patients with melanoma that has metastasized to the liver) is limited. Any significant delay in completing clinical trials or in the FDA’s response to our submission, or a requirement by the FDA for us to conduct additional trials, would delay the commercialization of the Delcath PHP System™ and our ability to generate revenues. The FDA could temporarily or permanently halt the conduct of our clinical trials. If the FDA decides for any reason that the Delcath PHP System™ is not sufficiently safe or efficacious, it may require the Company to halt the trials. We may not be able to resume our trials or be able to launch trials overseas if the FDA were to halt the United States trials. In October 2007, Delcath received a letter from the FDA recommending that we temporarily suspend enrollment in the Phase III and Phase II trials of the Delcath PHP System™ in anticipation of a meeting with the Agency to discuss certain gastrointestinal (“GI”) safety concerns. The recommendation was issued by the FDA following reports by Delcath of four serious adverse GI events, which may have been related to the infusion of melphalan. Following receipt of this letter, we decided to voluntarily defer enrollment of new patients in our Phase III and Phase II trials pending that meeting. During a meeting at the FDA that was attended by senior reviewers from both the Drug and Device arms of the FDA, the Principal Investigator at the NCI presented an analysis of the previously reported gastrointestinal toxicities and of the changes incorporated into the trial protocols to prevent a recurrence of those toxicities. These changes had been previously approved by the NCI Institutional Review Board and were subsequently approved by the Data Safety Monitoring Board that monitors the Phase III trial. Following that meeting, we were notified in writing by the FDA that the studies could proceed and we resumed patient enrollment in the trials less than a month after receiving the October letter. We may experience a number of events that could further delay or prevent development of the Delcath PHP System™, including: · the FDA may put the Phase III and/or Phase II trials on clinical hold; · additional serious adverse events in the clinical trials could occur; · other regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize, or may delay, suspend or terminate the clinical trial program due to safety concerns. If similar events were to occur in the future, our clinical trials, and as a result, our business, operations and stock price could be materially impacted. 13 BACK Third-party reimbursement may not be available to purchasers of the Delcath PHP System™ or may be inadequate, resulting in lower sales even if FDA pre-market approval is granted. Physicians, hospitals and other health care providers may be reluctant to purchase our System if they do not receive substantial reimbursement for the cost of using our products from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans. The Delcath PHP System™ is currently characterized by the FDA as an experimental device. As such, Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans will not reimburse its use in the United States. We will seek reimbursement by third-party payors of the cost of the Delcath PHP System™ after its use is approved by the FDA. There are no assurances that third-party payors in the United States or abroad will agree to cover the cost of procedures using the Delcath PHP System™. Further, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that the Delcath PHP System™ is not used in accordance with established payor protocols regarding cost effective treatment methods or is used for forms of cancer or with drugs not specifically approved by the FDA. Risks Related to Manufacturing, Commercialization and Market Acceptance of the Delcath PHP System™ We purchase components for the Delcath PHP System™ from sole-source suppliers. These manufacturers must comply with a number of FDA requirements and regulations. If one of our suppliers fails to meet such requirements or if we change suppliers, the successful completion of the clinical trials and/or the commercialization of the Delcath PHP System™ could be jeopardized. The components of the Delcath PHP System™ must be manufactured in accordance with manufacturing and performance specifications of the Delcath PHP System™ on file with the FDA and meet good manufacturing practice requirements. Many of the components of the Delcath PHP System™ are manufactured by sole-source suppliers. If any of our suppliers fails to meet those regulatory obligations, we may be forced to suspend or terminate our clinical trials. Further, if we need to find a new source of supply, we may face long interruptions in obtaining necessary components for the System, which could jeopardize our ability to supply the Delcath PHP System™ to the market. We do not have any contracts with suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath PHP System™. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary components, we may not be able to complete our clinical trials. We do not have long term supply contracts with suppliers of components for the Delcath PHP System™. Certain components are available from only a limited number of sources. Components of the Delcath PHP System™ are currently manufactured for us in small quantities for use in our pre-clinical and clinical studies. We will require significantly greater quantities to commercialize the product. We may not be able to find alternate sources of comparable components. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components from our existing suppliers or need to switch to an alternate supplier, commercialization of the Delcath PHP System™ could be delayed. We have limited experience in marketing products and lack adequate personnel to market and sell products, and as a result, we may not be successful in marketing and selling the Delcath PHP System™ even if we receive FDA pre-market approval. Delcath has not previously sold, marketed or distributed any products and currently does not have the personnel, resources, experience or other capabilities to market the Delcath PHP System™. Our success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or our reaching an agreement with a third party to market our product. Competition for sales and marketing personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our inability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or to reach an agreement with a third party could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market acceptance of the Delcath PHP System™ will depend on substantial efforts and expenditures in an area with which we have limited experience. Market acceptance of the Delcath PHP System™ will depend upon a variety of factors including: · Whether our clinical trials demonstrate significantly improved, cost effective patient outcomes; · Our ability to educate physicians and drive acceptance of the use of the Delcath PHP System™; · Our ability to convince healthcare payors that use of the Delcath PHP System™ results in reduced treatment costs and improved outcomes for patients; 14 BACK · Whether the Delcath PHP System™ replaces treatment methods in which many hospitals have made a significant investment. Hospitals may be unwilling to replace their existing technology in light of their investment and experience with competing technologies; and · Whether doctors and hospitals are reluctant to use a new medical technology until its value has been demonstrated. As a result, the Delcath PHP System™ may not gain significant market acceptance among physicians, hospitals, patients and healthcare payors. Rapid technological developments in treatment methods for liver cancer and competition with other forms of liver cancer treatments could result in a short product life cycle for the Delcath PHP System™. Competition in the cancer treatment industry is intense. The Delcath PHP System™ competes with all forms of liver cancer treatments that are alternatives to the “gold standard” treatment of surgical resection. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and considerable experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. If these competitors develop more effective or more affordable products or treatment methods, our profitability will be substantially reduced and the Delcath PHP System™ could have a short product life cycle. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the operation of our business, and we have entered into an employment agreement with him for his services. The loss of his services could delay our completion of the clinical trials, our obtaining FDA pre-market approval, our introducing the Delcath PHP System™ commercially and our generating revenues and profits. Competition for experienced personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Patents, Trade Secrets and Proprietary Rights Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Due to the uncertainty of the patent prosecution process, there are no guarantees that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. Even if we are successful in obtaining a patent, there is no assurance that it will be upheld if later challenged or will provide significant protection or commercial advantage. Because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new medical devices to the market, the healthcare industry has traditionally placed considerable emphasis on patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies. Companies in the medical device industry may use intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. If this type of litigation is successful, a third party may be able to obtain an injunction prohibiting us from offering our product. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or assigned to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation could be costly and could divert our attention from our business. There are no guarantees that we will receive a favorable outcome in any such litigation. If others file patent applications with respect to inventions for which we already have patents issued to us or have patent applications pending, we may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could also be costly and could divert our attention from our business. If a third party violates our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to enforce our rights because of our limited resources. Use of our limited funds to defend our intellectual property rights may also affect our financial condition adversely. Risks Related to Products Liability We may not carry sufficient products liability insurance and we may not be able to acquire sufficient coverage in the future to cover large claims. Clinical trials, manufacturing and product sales may expose us to liability claims from the use of the Delcath PHP System™. Though participants in clinical trials are generally required to execute consents and waivers of liability, a court might find such consents and waivers of liability to be ineffective or invalid. Were such a claim asserted we would likely incur substantial legal and related expenses even if we prevail on the merits. Claims for damages, whether or not successful, could cause delays in the clinical trials and result in the loss of physician endorsement. A successful products liability claim or recall would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently carry some clinical trial insurance coverage, but it may be insufficient to cover one or more large claims. 15 BACK Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; · announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; · conditions generally affecting the healthcare and cancer treatment industries; and · the success of our operating strategy. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential impact on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile. During the three years ended December 31, 2008, the range of the high and low sales prices of our common stock have ranged from a high of $6.00 (during the quarter ended June 30, 2006) to a low of $0.82 (during the quarter ended December 31, 2008). Sales of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. As of December 31, 2008, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially owned approximately 12.2% of our common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: · elect or defeat the election of our directors; · amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; · effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and · affect the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. Sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and under our stockholder rights agreement may reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control, or make it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of our stockholders rights agreement could have the effect of making it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management at a time when a substantial number of our stockholders might favor a change in management. These provisions include: · providing for a staggered board; and · authorizing the board of directors to fill vacant directorships or increase the size of our board of directors. Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to determine the rights and preferences of the shares of any such series without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. Our board’s ability to issue preferred stock may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock and warrants. We also have a stockholder rights agreement that could have the effect of substantially increasing the cost of acquiring us unless our board of directors supports the transaction even if the holders of a majority of our common stock are in favor of the transaction. 16 BACK Our Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet the requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market for continued listing, our Common Stock could be delisted. Our Common Stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. To keep such listing, we are required to maintain: (i) a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, (ii) a certain public float, (iii) a certain number of round lot shareholders and (iv) one of the following: a net income from continuing operations (in the latest fiscal year or two of the three last fiscal years) of at least $500,000, a market value of listed securities of at least $35 million or a stockholders' equity of at least $2.5 million. We are presently in compliance with these requirements. We are also required to maintain certain corporate governance requirements. In the event that in the future we are notified that we no longer comply with NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements, and we fail to regain compliance within the applicable cure period, our Common Stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price of the common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock were delisted, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. These additional requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, holders of our common stock must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We have never declared or paid any dividends to the holders of our common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all earnings for use in connection with the expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Our board of directors will have the sole discretion in determining whether to declare and pay dividends in the future. The declaration of dividends will depend on our profitability, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our ability to pay cash dividends in the future could be limited or prohibited by the terms of financing agreements that we may enter into or by the terms of any preferred stock that we may authorize and issue. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 