risk factors could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to FDA and Foreign Regulatory Approval Even if the FDA grants premarket approval for use of the Delcath System for the treatment of melanoma that has metastasized to the liver with melphalan, our ability to market the device would be limited to that use. If the FDA grants premarket approval for use of the Delcath System in the treatment of melanoma that has metastasized to the liver with Melphalan, our ability to market the System would be limited to its use with that drug in treating that disease. Thereafter, physicians could use the System for the treatment of other cancers or using other drugs (“off-label” use), but we could not market it for such uses, unless we obtained separate FDA approval to market the System for use with other drugs or to treat other diseases. The lack of separate specific approvals would limit our ability to market our product and could result in substantially reduced sales. If we do not obtain FDA premarket approval, we may not be able to export the Delcath System to foreign markets, which will limit our sales opportunities. If the FDA does not approve our application for premarket approval for the Delcath System, we will not be able to export the Delcath System from the United States for marketing abroad unless approval has been obtained from one of a number of developed nations. If we do not have such approval, we will not be eligible to use a simplified registration process for the Delcath System in a number of countries including the members of the European Union, Great Britain and Australia. We have not begun to seek foreign regulatory approval and may not be able to obtain approval from one or more countries where we would like to sell the Delcath System. If we are unable to market the Delcath System internationally because we are unable to obtain required approvals, our international market opportunity will be materially limited. 19 Because of our limited experience, conduct of clinical trials and obtaining FDA premarket approval could be delayed. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in conducting and completing required clinical trials, caused by many factors, including our limited experience in the following areas: · arranging for clinical trials; · evaluating and submitting the data gathered from clinical trials; · designing trials to conform to the trial protocols authorized by the FDA; · complying with the requirements of institutional review boards at the sites where the trials may be conducted; and · identifying clinical test sites and sponsoring physicians. Completion of our clinical trials will also depend on the ability of the clinical test sites to identify patients to enroll in the clinical trials, as the population of appropriate subjects (i.e., patients with melanoma that has metastasized to the liver) is limited. The trials may also take longer to complete because of difficulties we may encounter in entering into agreements with clinical testing sites to conduct the trials. Any significant delay in completing clinical trials or in the FDA’s response to our submission, or a requirement by the FDA for us to conduct additional trials, would delay the commercialization of the Delcath System and our ability to generate revenues. The FDA could temporarily or permanently halt the conduct of our clinical trials. If the FDA decides for any reason that the Delcath System is not sufficiently safe or efficacious, it may require the Company to halt the trials. We may not be able to resume our trials or launch trials overseas if the FDA were to halt the United States trials. On October 23, 2007, we announced that we received on the afternoon of October 22, 2007, a letter from the FDA recommending that we temporarily suspend enrollment in the Phase III and Phase II trials of the Delcath System, and submit an analysis of adverse events in anticipation of a meeting with the FDA to discuss certain gastrointestinal (“GI”) safety concerns. The recommendation was issued by the FDA following reports of four serious adverse GI events that were submitted to the FDA, the NCI’s Institutional Review Board and the Data Safety Monitoring Board, which may have been related to the infusion of melphalan. Following receipt of this letter, we decided to voluntarily defer accrual of new patients in our Phase III and Phase II trials. During a meeting at the FDA which was attended by senior reviewers from both the Drug and Device arms of the FDA, the Principal Investigator at the NCI presented an analysis of the previously reported gastrointestinal toxicities and of the changes incorporated into the trial protocols to prevent a recurrence of the (GI) toxicities. These changes had been previously approved by the NCI Institutional Review Board and were subsequently approved by the Data Safety Monitoring Board for the Phase III trial. Following the meeting, we were notified in writing by the FDA that the studies can proceed with the amended protocol and we announced the notification of trial resumption in a November 20, 2007 press release. 20 We may experience a number of events that could continue to delay or prevent development of the Delcath System, including: · the FDA may put the Phase III and/or Phase II trials on clinical hold, meaning that they will not allow for further enrollment in and/or permanently suspend our clinical trials; · additional serious adverse events in the clinical trials could occur; · the Company could fail to resume enrollment in the clinical trials in a timely manner or at all; or · other regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize, or may delay, suspend or terminate the clinical trial program due to any unresolved safety concerns. If similar events were to occur in the future, our clinical trials, and as a result, our business, operations and stock price could be materially adversely affected. Third-party reimbursement may not be available to purchasers of the Delcath System or may be inadequate, resulting in lower sales even if FDA premarket approval is granted. Physicians, hospitals and other health care providers may be reluctant to purchase our System if they do not receive substantial reimbursement for the cost of the procedures using our products from third-party payors, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans. The Delcath System is currently characterized by the FDA as an experimental device. As such, Medicare, Medicaid and private health insurance plans will not reimburse its use in the United States. We will not begin to seek reimbursement by third-party payors of the cost of the Delcath System until after its use is approved by the FDA. Each third-party payor independently determines whether and to what extent it will reimburse for a medical procedure or product. There are no assurances that third-party payors in the United States or abroad will agree to cover procedures using the Delcath System. Further, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that the Delcath System is not used in accordance with established payor protocols regarding cost effective treatment methods or is used for forms of cancer or with drugs not specifically approved by the FDA. In addition, new products are under increased scrutiny as to whether they will be covered by the various healthcare plans and as to the level of reimbursement that would be applicable to respective covered products and procedures. A third-party payor may deny reimbursement for the treatment and medical costs associated with the Delcath System, notwithstanding FDA or other regulatory approval, if that payor determines that the Delcath System is unnecessary, inappropriate, not cost effective, and experimental or is used for a non-approved indication. 21 Risks Related to Manufacturing, Commercialization and Market Acceptance of the Delcath System We obtain necessary components for the Delcath System from sole-source suppliers. Because manufacturers must demonstrate compliance with FDA requirements, if our present suppliers fail to meet such requirements or if we change any supplier, the successful completion of the clinical trials and/or the commercialization of the Delcath System could be jeopardized. We must ensure that the components of the Delcath System are manufactured in accordance with manufacturing and performance specifications of the Delcath System on file with the FDA and with drug and device good manufacturing practice requirements. Many of the components of the Delcath System are manufactured by sole source suppliers. If any of our suppliers fails to meet our needs, or if we need to seek an alternate source of supply, we may be forced to suspend or terminate our clinical trials. Further, if we need a new source of supply after commercial introduction of the Delcath System, we may face long interruptions in obtaining necessary components, which could jeopardize our ability to supply the Delcath System to the market. Currently the Delcath System kit is being manufactured domestically by the OEM division of B. Braun Medical, Inc. of Germany which also supplies the other catheters and accessories. Medtronic USA, Inc. currently manufactures the components of the blood filtration circuit located outside of the body, including the medical tubing through which the patient’s blood flows and various connectors and the blood pump head. We purchase activated charcoal filters used in the Delcath System from a single supplier. We do not have any contracts with suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath System. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary components, we may not be able timely to complete our clinical trials. We do not have any contracts with suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath System. Certain components are available from only a limited number of sources. To date, we have only had components of the Delcath System manufactured for us in small quantities for use in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. We will require significantly greater quantities to commercialize the product. Notwithstanding our best efforts, we may not be able to find an alternate source of comparable components. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components from our existing suppliers or need to switch to an alternate supplier, commercialization of the Delcath System could be delayed. Because of our limited experience in marketing products and our lack of adequate personnel to market and sell products, we may not be successful in marketing and selling the Delcath System even if we receive FDA premarket approval. We have not previously sold, marketed or distributed any products and currently do not have the personnel, resources, experience or other capabilities to market the Delcath System adequately. Our success will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or our reaching an agreement with a third party to market our product. Competition for sales and marketing personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our inability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or to reach an agreement with a third party could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market acceptance of the Delcath System will depend on substantial efforts and expenditures in an area with which we have limited experience. Market acceptance of the Delcath System will depend upon a variety of factors including whether our clinical trials demonstrate a significant reduction in the mortality rate for the kinds of cancers treated on a cost-effective basis, our ability to educate physicians on the use of the Delcath System and our ability to convince healthcare payors that use of the Delcath System results in reduced treatment costs to patients. We have only limited experience in these areas and we may not be successful in achieving these goals. Moreover, the Delcath System replaces treatment methods in which many hospitals have made a significant investment. Hospitals may be unwilling to replace their existing technology in light of their investment and experience with competing technologies. Many doctors and hospitals are reluctant to use a new medical technology until its value has been demonstrated. As a result, the Delcath System may not gain significant market acceptance among physicians, hospitals, patients and healthcare payors. 22 Rapid technological developments in treatment methods for liver cancer and competition with other forms of liver cancer treatments could result in a short product life cycle for the Delcath System. Competition in the cancer treatment industry, particularly in the markets for systems and devices to improve the outcome of chemotherapy treatment, is intense. The Delcath System competes with all forms of liver cancer treatments that are alternatives to the “gold standard” treatment of surgical resection. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources, especially financial and technological. In addition, some of our competitors have considerable experience in conducting clinical trials and other regulatory procedures. These competitors are developing systems and devices to improve the outcome of chemotherapy treatment for liver cancer. If these competitors develop more effective or more affordable products or treatment methods, our profitability will be substantially reduced and the Delcath System could have a short product life cycle. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the operation of our business, and we have entered into an employment agreement with him for his services. The loss of his services could delay our completion of the clinical trials, our obtaining FDA premarket approval, our introducing the Delcath System commercially and our generating revenues and profits. Competition for experienced personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Patents, Trade Secrets and Proprietary Rights Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. Due to the uncertainty of the patent prosecution process, there are no guarantees that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. Even if we are successful in obtaining a patent, there is no assurance that it will be upheld if later challenged or will provide significant protection or commercial advantage. Because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new medical devices to the market, the healthcare industry has traditionally placed considerable emphasis on patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies. Companies in the medical device industry may use intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. If this type of litigation is successful, a third party may be able to obtain an injunction prohibiting us from offering our product. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or assigned to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation could be costly and could divert our attention from our business. There are no guarantees that we will receive a favorable outcome in any such litigation. If others file patent applications with respect to inventions for which we already have patents issued to us or have patent applications pending, we may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could also be costly and could divert our attention from our business. If a third party violates our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to enforce our rights because of our limited resources. Use of our limited funds to defend our intellectual property rights may also affect our financial condition adversely. 23 Risks Related to Products Liability We do not currently carry products liability insurance and we may not be able to acquire sufficient coverage in the future to cover large claims. Clinical trials, manufacturing and product sales may expose us to liability claims from the use of the Delcath System. Though participants in clinical trials are generally required to execute consents and waivers of liability, a court might find such consents and waivers of liability to be ineffective or invalid. Were such a claim asserted and even if we prevail on the merits, we would likely incur substantial legal and related expenses. Claims for damages, whether or not successful, could cause delays in the clinical trials and result in the loss of physician endorsement. A successful products liability claim or recall would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; · announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; · conditions generally affecting the healthcare and cancer treatment industries; · the success of our operating strategy; and · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. There is a relatively limited public float of our common stock. Because of this, trades of relatively small amounts of our common stock can have a disproportionate effect on the market price for our common stock. The market price of our common stock has historically been volatile. During the three years ended December 31, 2007, the range of the high and low sales prices of our common stock have ranged from a high of $6.00 (during the quarter ended June 30, 2006) to a low of $0.92 (during the quarter ended December 31, 2007). 24 Sales of substantial amounts of common stock or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially own approximately 14.2% of our common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: · elect or defeat the election of our directors; · amend or prevent amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; · effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and · affect the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. In addition, sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Management’s stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and under our stockholder rights agreement may reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control, and certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of our stockholders rights plan could make it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our stockholders rights agreement may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of us or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a stockholder might consider favorable. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of our stockholders rights agreement could have the effect of making it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management at a time when a substantial number of our stockholders would favor a change in management. These include provisions: · providing for a classified board; and · authorizing the board of directors to fill vacant directorships or increase the size of our board of directors. Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to determine the rights and preferences of the shares of any such series without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. Our board’s ability to issue preferred stock may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock and warrants. We also have a stockholder rights agreement which could have the effect of substantially increasing the cost of acquiring us unless our board of directors supports the transaction even if the holders of a majority of our common stock are in favor of the transaction. 25 Our Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet the requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market for continued listing, our Common Stock could be delisted. Our Common Stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. To keep such listing, we are required to maintain: (i) a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, (ii) a certain public float, (iii) a certain number of round lot shareholders and (iv) one of the following: a net income from continuing operations (in the latest fiscal year or two of the three last fiscal years ) of at least $500,000, a market value of listed securities of at least $35 million or a stockholders' equity of at least $2.5 million. We are presently in compliance with these requirements. We are also required to maintain certain corporate governance requirements. On April 30, 2007, we were notified by NASDAQ that due to the resignations of two of our independent directors on April 16, 2007, we no longer complied with NASDAQ’s requirements to have a majority of independent directors on our Board of Directors, and for our Audit Committee to have three members. On May 24, 2007, the Company regained compliance with both of these requirements within the cure period allowed by NASDAQ (on or before October 13, 2007). However, in the event that in the future we are notified that we no longer comply with NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements, and we fail to regain compliance within the applicable cure period, our Common Stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. In addition, if we fail to meet any of the other applicable criteria, our Common Stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price of the common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock were delisted, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, holders of our common stock must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We have never declared or paid any dividends to the holders of our common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all earnings for use in connection with the expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Our board of directors will have the sole discretion in determining whether to declare and pay dividends in the future. The declaration of dividends will depend on our profitability, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our ability to pay cash dividends in the future could be limited or prohibited by the terms of financing agreements that we may enter into or by the terms of any preferred stock that we may authorize and issue. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 