1A. Risk factors 12 Item 2. Properties 23 Item 3. Legal proceedings 23 Item 4. Submission of matters to a vote of security holders 23 PART II Item 5. Market for registrant’s common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 24 Item 6. Selected financial data 24 Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 25 Item 7A. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 Item 8. Financial statements and supplementary data 35 Item 9. Changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 63 Item 9A. Controls and procedures 63 Item 9B. Other information 64 PART III Item 10. Directors, executive officers and corporate governance 64 Item 11. Executive compensation 68 Item 12. Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 72 Item 13. Certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 74 Item 14. Principal accounting fees and services 74 PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, financial statement schedules 75 SIGNATURES 79 CERTIFICATIONS 80 ii PART I This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. For this purpose, any statements contained in this Form 10-K that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. You can identify forward-looking statements by those that are not historical in nature, particularly those that use terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “contemplates,” “estimates,” “believes,” “plans,” “projected,” “predicts,” “potential,” or “continue” or the negative of these similar terms. In evaluating these forward-looking statements, you should consider various factors, including those listed below under the heading “Item 1A. Risk factors”. The Company’s actual results may differ significantly from the results projected in the forward-looking statements. The Company assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements. As used in this Form 10-K, references to “APNS,” the “Company,” the “Registrant,” “we,” “our,” or “us” refer to Applied NeuroSolutions, Inc. unless the context otherwise indicates. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Applied NeuroSolutions, Inc. (“APNS” or “the Company”) is a development stage biotechnology company focused on the development of products for the early diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's disease (“AD”). Alzheimer’s disease is the most common cause of dementia among people age 65 and older. Dementia is the loss of memory, reason, judgment and language to such an extent that it interferes with a person’s daily life and activities. Currently it is estimated that over five million people in the U.S., and almost 30 million worldwide, have Alzheimer’s disease and the national cost of caring for people with Alzheimer’s is estimated to exceed $148 billion annually. By 2050, it is estimated that 16 million people in the U.S. will have Alzheimer’s, and the global prevalence of Alzheimer’s is expected to be greater than 100 million. Our core technology in the AD field is based on exclusive licenses with Albert Einstein College of Medicine (“AECOM”) covering all diagnostic and therapeutic applications in the field of neurodegenerative disease discovered in the AECOM laboratories of Peter Davies, Ph.D. Dr. Davies, the Company’s founding scientist, is the Burton P. and Judith Resnick Professor of Alzheimer’s Disease Research at AECOM, and was the recipient of the Lifetime Achievement Award in Alzheimer’s Disease at the Alzheimer’s Association’s 11th International Conference on Alzheimer’s Disease (“ICAD”) held in Chicago in July 2008. Dr. Davies has focused his research primarily on Alzheimer’s disease and the roll of certain proteins, primarily hyperphosphorylated tau, which are involved in the formation of neurofibrillary tangles within neurons (nerve cells). Excessive phosphorylation of tau (the addition of one or more phosphate groups, which are comprised of phosphorous and oxygen) prevents it from stabilizing microtubules, thereby causing the breakdown of the transit system of the nerve cell. This internal neuronal damage leads to the development of the paired helical filaments and neurofibrillary tangles which are contributing factors to the eventual death of the neurons related to Alzheimer’s disease. Tau in this abnormally phosphorylated form is the building block for the paired helical filaments and the neurofibrillary tangles (“NFTs”); one of the hallmark pathologies associated with AD. There is a high correlation among the presence of hyperphosphorylated tau, NFTs and AD. Thus, it is believed that the hyperphosphorylated tau represents an early abnormality in the progression of Alzheimer’s disease. Research described in numerous articles published in peer-reviewed scientific journals demonstrates that abnormal tau represents an appropriate target for research on neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s disease. Dr. Davies has been applying his expertise in research directed towards abnormal tau for many years and, together with Applied NeuroSolutions scientists, has developed a large number of proprietary antibodies and tools which are being used in the development of APNS’s diagnostic pipeline to detect AD, and targets directed at AD therapeutic solutions. In November 2006, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Eli Lilly and Company (“Lilly”). APNS and Lilly are engaged in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics for the development of treatments for Alzheimer’s disease based upon an approach developed by Dr. Davies. As a result of Dr. Davies’ research, APNS and Lilly are focused on discovery of unique therapeutics that may be involved in a common intracellular phosphorylation pathway leading to the development of the abnormal, destructive brain structures, amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, that are characteristic of Alzheimer’s disease. APNS has identified various biomarkers that we believe will aid in the development of diagnostics and drug specific diagnostic markers that could also play a role in the development of new AD treatments. 1 Pursuant to the collaboration agreement, Lilly received the exclusive worldwide rights to the intellectual property related to our expertise in understanding the molecular neuropathology of AD as it pertains to the formation of neurofibrillary tangles in the development of AD therapeutics. We received $2 million in cash, including an equity investment of $500,000, from Lilly, plus we are receiving annual research and development support for the duration of the collaboration agreement. In addition, Lilly will, based on the achievement of certain defined milestones, provide us over time with up to a total sum of $20 million in milestone payments for advancing the APNS proprietary target to a therapeutic compound. The collaboration has also made progress on other targets that are part of the collaboration that could provide milestone payments to us over time of up to a total sum of $10 million for advancing each of these other targets to a therapeutic compound. There is no limit to the number of targets for which we could receive milestone payments from Lilly. Royalties are to be paid to us for AD drug compounds brought to market that result from the collaboration. There is no limit on the number of drug compounds for which royalty payments may be due to us. Lilly will fund the vast majority of all pre-clinical research and development and will fully finance the clinical testing, manufacturing, sales and marketing of AD therapeutics developed from this collaboration. Since the start of our collaboration with Eli Lilly & Company, the collaboration management structure, working teams and external resources have become fully operational. The key assets and proprietary tools have been appropriately transferred to support work being undertaken by each of Dr. Davies, Lilly and APNS. Key in-vivo models have been established with the goal to validate our proprietary tau-based target. The collaboration with Lilly has established criteria that provide the team with a clearly mandated and coordinated work plan that will enable them to generate the data to validate the proprietary APNS target. The APNS proprietary tau-based target has already achieved two significant unpaid program milestones: the first one in the second quarter of 2007 and the second one in the first quarter of 2008. The next milestone, if achieved, would be the first milestone for which we receive a cash payment from Lilly. The achievement of the first paid milestone was targeted for review by Lilly’s program management team in late March 2009. Prior to the review by Lilly’s program management team, the joint Lilly/APNS collaboration management team deferred formal review pending the completion of the milestone requirements. Lilly remains fully committed to the collaboration with resources focused on program progress and milestone achievement. The collaboration continues to make progress toward additional tau-based targets with various screens established and studies underway for identifying other tau-based targets. We anticipate providing an update on the progress of the collaboration with Lilly late second quarter 2009. We have also been developing both cerebrospinal fluid (“CSF”)-based and serum-based tests to detect AD at an early stage. In a research setting, our CSF-based test, which detects a certain AD associated protein found in the CSF of AD patients (“P-Tau 231”), has demonstrated an ability to differentiate AD patients from those with other diseases that have similar symptoms. This test is based on extensive testing in the APNS lab, utilizing in excess of 2,000 CSF samples to differentiate patients diagnosed with AD from patients diagnosed with other forms of dementia and relevant neurological diseases, including major depression, as well as age-matched healthy controls. The data generated from the broad range of studies performed by both U.S. and international academic researchers have been published in 22 peer-reviewed articles in leading neurology and other scientific journals. The CSF-based P-Tau 231 test has demonstrated, based on published research validation studies, overall sensitivity and specificity in the range of 85% to 95%. Our most recent research has sought to further substantiate the utility of the test in the mild cognitive impairment (“MCI”) population, as evidenced by reports published in Neurobiology of Aging in September 2007, Neurology in December 2007 and Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease in February 2009. Given the strong body of scientific data available for APNS’s P-Tau 231 test as a viable biomarker for Alzheimer’s disease, coupled with the growing number of clinical trials directed at creating improved therapeutic solutions for AD patients, we initiated a business development program to offer to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, imaging and other clinical trial support companies the opportunity to use its CSF-based P-Tau 231 test as a cost-effective tool to help optimize their programs. APNS and Dr. Davies met with companies that had expressed an interest in utilizing the P-Tau 231 diagnostic test. The meetings took place at the July 2008 International Conference on Alzheimer’s Disease (“ICAD”) meeting in Chicago. We have performed initial studies for two major pharmaceutical companies and have had discussions with other interested parties. Net revenue that may be generated by performing this test for interested customers could be deployed to continue progress toward our goal of developing a serum-based test for the early diagnosis of AD. We are actively continuing our efforts and are in discussions with companies that may utilize our CSF-based diagnostic test. 2 We are utilizing the knowledge gained during the development of our CSF-based diagnostic test to develop two types of serum-based tests to detect Alzheimer’s disease: one to “rule out” AD and one, utilizing the Company’s P-Tau 231 biomarker, to support the diagnosis of AD. Throughout 2006, APNS scientists, working with external technical expertise, developed an important understanding of the tools necessary to advance the development of a serum-based AD diagnostic test with scientifically accepted tau-based biomarkers. This resulted in our creation of a robust project plan. We began developing these key tools in early 2007 and established 2008 milestones for the development of serum-based diagnostic tests. As part of our project plan, in 2007, we secured additional expertise and resources by conducting a scientific advisory board meeting that brought together APNS scientists, Dr. Davies and three outside diagnostic experts to assist us in assessing the most effective approaches and resources to advance our diagnostic development programs. Through 2007, we followed our work plans to develop program related tools, primarily antibodies, that met our scientific criteria. We achieved a key milestone in the first quarter of 2008 by identifying several antibodies that met our requirements. These antibodies support advancing development of a “rule out” serum based test for AD. We successfully met our next key milestone in the second quarter of 2008 through the creation of proprietary tau-based antibodies required for the development of a serum-based test to support the early diagnosis of AD, utilizing our P-Tau 231 biomarker (the “P-Tau test”). These new P-Tau related antibodies may also support enhancing the commercial viability of our CSF-based test. Throughout the antibody development process we have been assessing specialized technologies that we believe are necessary to advance our serum diagnostic development programs. The goal of collaboration is to bring together a company’s proprietary technology and related know-how with APNS’ new proprietary antibodies and extensive knowledge of the protein tau, and determine the opportunity for a joint effort to develop a serum-based diagnostic test. Technology assessments and discussions with companies for initial collaborations led to the establishment of key working arrangements with several specialized technology companies. We began working with these specialized technology companies throughout the second half of 2008. The primary focus of the initial work was to determine feasibility of our proprietary P-Tau test in serum with a supportive technology. The results to date from one of these technology companies have produced variable data that do not provide clear-cut feasibility for our P-Tau serum-based diagnostic test in development with their proprietary technology. Additional antibodies were developed in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 that potentially could be utilized to address the issues connected with the development of the P-Tau test with this specialized technology company. Our work to establish feasibility for a P-Tau test is ongoing with the other companies. Additional antibodies to support a serum-based “rule out” test were developed in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. In early 2009, we expanded on our initial work with the specialized technology companies to determine feasibility for a “rule out” test. In addition, we began work in-house on a total tau “rule out” serum-based test, to support the external efforts. Our current plans target the feasibility of both the P-Tau test and the “rule out” test in the middle of the second quarter of 2009. We are currently focused on establishing feasibility for our serum-diagnostic tests in development. In order to maximize the value, and minimize the time to commercialization, of our diagnostic programs, we are exploring additional partnerships, including collaborations, strategic and technical alliances, and/or licensing arrangements. History On September 10, 2002, Hemoxymed, Inc. and Molecular Geriatrics Corporation (“MGC”) established a strategic alliance through the closing of a merger (the “Merger”). The Merger Agreement provided that the management team and Board of Directors of MGC took over control of the merged company. The transaction was tax-free to the shareholders of both companies. In October 2003, we changed our name to Applied NeuroSolutions, Inc. The Merger transaction has been accounted for as a reverse merger. For financial reporting purposes, MGC (now APNS) is continuing as the primary operating entity under the Company’s name, and its historical financial statements have replaced those of the Company. Thus, all financial information prior to the Merger date is the financial information of MGC only. 3 After the Merger, we had two wholly-owned operating subsidiaries, which were dissolved during 2004. The assets of these dissolved subsidiaries were transferred to us. One of the wholly-owned operating subsidiaries dissolved was MGC, a development stage biopharmaceutical company incorporated in November 1991, with operations commencing in March 1992, to develop diagnostics to detect AD, and therapeutic targets directed at AD solutions. The other wholly-owned operating subsidiary we dissolved was Hemoxymed Europe, SAS, a development stage biopharmaceutical company incorporated in February 1995 to develop therapies aimed at improving tissue oxygenation by increasing oxygen release from hemoglobin to provide therapeutic value to patients with serious, medical needs. We are not currently funding the development of this technology. We are subject to risks and uncertainties common to small-cap and micro-cap biotech companies, including competition from larger, well capitalized entities, patent protection issues, availability of funding and government regulations. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $50.3 million. Notwithstanding payments that we may receive under our collaboration agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, we expect to incur operating losses over the next several years as our research and development efforts continue. At our current level of operations, our funds will last into the middle of the third quarter 2009. We need to raise additional capital prior to the middle of the third quarter 2009 to continue our operations. We currently have no regulatory approved therapeutic or diagnostic products on the market and have not received any commercial revenues from the sale or license of any such products. Alzheimer's Disease Background Alzheimer’s disease is the most common cause of dementia among people age 65 and older. Dementia is the loss of memory, reason, judgment and language to such an extent that it interferes with a person’s daily life and activities. Currently it is estimated that over five million people in the U.S., and almost 30 million worldwide, have Alzheimer’s disease and the national cost of caring for people with Alzheimer’s is estimated to exceed $148 billion annually. By 2050, it is estimated that 16 million people in the U.S. will have Alzheimer’s, and the global prevalence of Alzheimer’s is expected to be greater than 100 million. The market for AD therapy is expected to grow, based on the aging demographic of the seven major pharmaceutical markets (USA, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, U.K. and Japan). Currently there are only five drugs approved in the U.S. to treat AD. Four are primarily acetylcholinesterase inhibitors; and one is an NMDA antagonist. All are only beneficial in treating symptoms associated with AD in a minority of AD patients for a very limited time period. Alzheimer’s disease is an intractable, chronic and progressively incapacitating disease characterized by the degeneration and death of several types of neurons in certain regions of the brain. Patients affected by the disease initially suffer loss of memory, then a decline of intellectual abilities severe enough to interfere with work and activities of daily living, followed by severe dementia and, finally, death. This illness, currently estimated to affect over five million people in the United States, and almost 30 million people worldwide, is a leading cause of death behind cardiovascular disease and cancer. While the disease is most common in the elderly, affecting nearly 10% of people age 65 and older and up to 50% of people age 85 and older, it has been diagnosed in patients in their 40’s and 50’s. Alzheimer’s disease, at present, can be conclusively diagnosed only by histological examination of the brain by biopsy or autopsy. The diagnosis of patients suspected of having AD is therefore typically made through a process of elimination, by conducting neurological and psychiatric examinations, extensive laboratory tests and brain imaging to rule out other conditions (such as stroke, brain tumor, or depression) that may exhibit similar symptoms. Alzheimer’s disease was first described in 1907 by Dr. Alois Alzheimer, a German psychiatrist who discovered large numbers of unusual microscopic deposits in the brain of a demented patient upon autopsy. These deposits, called amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, are highly insoluble protein aggregates that form in the brains of AD patients in particular regions, including those involved with memory and cognition. Generally, amyloid plaques are deposited on the surface of neurons, whereas neurofibrillary tangles are formed within neurons. The plaques and tangles are associated with degeneration and loss of neurons. The actual loss of neurons, as well as the impaired function of surviving neurons, is generally believed to be the key neuropathological contributors to the memory loss and dementia that characterizes Alzheimer’s disease. 4 Therapeutic Program We are working to discover and develop novel therapeutic targets for the development of treatments for AD. The basis for this work is Dr. Davies discovery of a novel initiation point that we believe is common to the ultimate development of both the neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid plaques. A patent application was filed in 2006 covering Dr. Davies work relative to this area. In November 2006, we entered into an agreement with Eli Lilly and Company to develop therapeutics to treat AD. In conjunction with Lilly, we are developing novel therapeutics for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease based upon a concept developed by Dr. Davies. The agreement forms a collaboration that will combine the expertise, research tools and tau-based approach advanced by Dr. Davies and our team at APNS with the scientists, therapeutic development expertise and financial resources at Eli Lilly and Company. Lilly has an exclusive world-wide license to manufacture, market and sell any AD therapeutic that comes to market from our collaboration agreement. The market potential for a drug to effectively treat Alzheimer’s disease is extremely large. Currently there are only five drugs approved in the U.S. to treat AD. Four are primarily acetylcholinesterase inhibitors; and one is an NMDA antagonist. All are only beneficial in treating symptoms associated with AD in a minority of AD patients. Despite the cost, and problems with the currently approved therapeutics, market research data indicate that these drugs sold nearly $4.5 billion in the U.S during 2007. The therapeutic market has been estimated to be in excess of $6 billion for effective therapeutics by 2010 in the U.S. Diagnostic Program Alzheimer’s disease, at present, can be conclusively diagnosed only by histological examination of the brain by biopsy or autopsy. The diagnosis of patients suspected of having AD is therefore typically made through a process of elimination, by conducting neurological and psychiatric examinations, extensive laboratory tests and brain imaging to rule out other conditions (such as stroke, brain tumor, or depression) with similar symptoms. The AD predictive accuracy of such exams is generally in the range of 80%-90% in some of the larger AD centers, but is usually closer to 60%, on average, when diagnosed outside of the larger AD centers. Costs to patients for such testing can range from $1,000 - $4,000, including imaging procedures. A simple, predictive, accurate and cost effective diagnostic test would therefore address a large unmet medical need. If the test was a serum based test, it could potentially be utilized as a routine screening test. APNS’s diagnostic program is based on Dr. Davies’ research of the tau pathology, and revolves around developing a pipeline of diagnostic tests that could include: (i) the detection of hyperphosphorylated tau in CSF, (ii) the detection of hyperphosphorylated tau in serum, and (iii) a screening test to rule out AD in serum. Our product farthest along in development is a CSF-based diagnostic test to detect whether a person has AD. This diagnostic, based upon the detection of a certain AD associated protein found in the CSF of AD patients (P-Tau 231), has demonstrated, based on published research validation studies, an overall sensitivity and specificity in the range of 85% to 95% (depending on patient diagnosis). This test is based on extensive testing in the APNS lab, utilizing in excess of 2,000 CSF samples to differentiate patients diagnosed with AD from patients diagnosed with other forms of dementia and relevant neurological diseases, including major depression, as well as age-matched healthy controls. We are continuing development of our P-Tau 231CSF-based diagnostic test to enhance its commercial viability. We currently have 22 peer-reviewed publications that report the performance of our CSF-based test in various patient populations, including AD, mild cognitive impairment (“MCI”), depression, other neurological disorders and normal controls. The studies have been published in prestigious, peer reviewed scientific journals such as Neuroscience Letters, Archives of Neurology, and American Journal of Psychiatry. We have shown with our test that phosphotau concentrations in CSF correlate well with the degree of cognitive impairment. A study published in 2001 in Annals of Neurology addressed the relationship between phosphotau levels in CSF and natural AD progression. In addition, a report published in the November 2006 edition of Brain describes a study utilizing our CSF-based test that importantly shows statistically significant correlations of phosphotau 231 levels from 26 living patients with the neurofibrillary pathology subsequently observed in those 26 patients upon autopsy. 5 A study published in the January 2004 edition of Archives of General Psychiatry has shown that detecting phosphorylated tau (“ptau”) proteins in CSF comes closest to fulfilling the criteria of a biological marker for AD. This publication reported that our CSF-based test exceeded standards for an AD diagnostic test established by the National Institute of Aging and the Ronald and Nancy Reagan Research Institute of the Alzheimer’s Association in a 1998 published “Consensus Report”. It was determined by that group that a successful biological marker would be one that had a sensitivity level and specificity level of at least 80%. A Position Paper, “Research Criteria for the Diagnosis of Alzheimer’s Disease: Revising the NINCDS-ADRDA Criteria”, was published in the August 2007 edition of Lancet Neurology that describes suggested revisions to the criteria for the diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease, including the use of CSF biomarkers, specifically referencing our CSF-based p-tau 231 test. Studies published in the December 2005 edition of Neuroscience Letters and in the March 2006 journal Neurobiology of Aging support the use of our CSF-based diagnostic test in identifying individuals with mild cognitive impairment (“MCI”) who, over time, are most likely to develop AD. Two studies published in 2007 show the ability of our CSF-based test to be a strong predictor of the decline from MCI to AD. The September 2007 online edition of Neurobiology of Aging presented a study comparing five of the best-known CSF biomarkers for AD. Our ptau biomarker was the strongest predictor of the decline from MCI to AD. The December 2007 issue of Neurology published an internationally based multi-center study that demonstrated our ptau biomarker was a significant predictor of the decline from MCI to AD in a clinically useful time period of 1.5 years. The February 2009 issue of Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease showed the added value of our ptau biomarker when used in conjunction with an MRI. We are utilizing the knowledge gained during the development of our CSF-based diagnostic test to develop two types of serum-based tests to detect Alzheimer’s disease: one to “rule out” AD and one, utilizing our P-Tau 231 biomarker, to support the diagnosis of AD. Throughout 2006, APNS scientists, working with external technical expertise, developed an important understanding of the tools necessary to advance the development of a serum-based AD diagnostic test with scientifically accepted tau-based biomarkers. This resulted in our creation of a robust project plan. We began developing these key tools in early 2007 and established 2008 milestones for the development of serum-based diagnostic tests. As part of our project plan, in 2007, we secured additional expertise and resources by conducting a scientific advisory board meeting that brought together APNS scientists, Dr. Davies and three outside diagnostic experts to assist us in assessing the most effective approaches and resources to advance our diagnostic development programs. Through 2007, we followed our work plans to develop program related tools, primarily antibodies, that met our scientific criteria. We achieved a key milestone in the first quarter of 2008 by identifying several antibodies that met our requirements. These antibodies support advancing development of a “rule out” serum based test for AD. We successfully met our next key milestone in the second quarter of 2008 through the creation of proprietary tau-based antibodies required for the development of a serum-based test to support the early diagnosis of AD, utilizing our P-Tau 231 biomarker (the “P-Tau test”). These new P-Tau related antibodies may also support enhancing the commercial viability of our CSF-based test. Throughout the antibody development process we have been assessing specialized technologies that we believe are necessary to advance our serum diagnostic development programs. The goal of collaboration is to bring together a company’s proprietary technology and related know-how with APNS’ new proprietary antibodies and extensive knowledge of the protein tau, and determine the opportunity for a joint effort to develop a serum-based diagnostic test. Technology assessments and discussions with companies for initial collaborations led to the establishment of key working arrangements with several specialized technology companies. We began working with these specialized technology companies throughout the second half of 2008. The primary focus of the initial work was to determine feasibility of our proprietary P-Tau test in serum with a supportive technology. The results to date from one of these technology companies have produced variable data that do not provide clear-cut feasibility for our P-Tau serum-based diagnostic test in development with their proprietary technology. Additional antibodies were developed in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 that potentially could be utilized to address the issues connected with the development of the P-Tau test with this specialized technology company. Our work to establish feasibility for a P-Tau test is ongoing with the other companies. 6 Additional antibodies to support a serum-based “rule out” test were developed in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. In early 2009, we expanded on our initial work with the specialized technology companies to determine feasibility for a “rule out” test. In addition, we began work in-house on a total tau “rule out” serum-based test, to support the external efforts. Our current plans target the feasibility of both the P-Tau test and the “rule out” test in the middle of the second quarter of 2009. Given the strong body of scientific data available for our P-Tau 231 test, coupled with the growing number of clinical trials directed at creating improved therapeutic solutions for AD patients, we initiated a business development program to offer to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, imaging and other clinical trial support companies the opportunity to use our CSF-based P-Tau 231 test as a cost-effective tool to help optimize their programs. APNS and Dr. Davies met with companies that had expressed an interest in utilizing the P-Tau 231 diagnostic test. The meetings took place at the July 2008 International Conference on Alzheimer’s Disease (“ICAD”) meeting in Chicago. We have performed initial studies for two major pharmaceutical companies and have had discussions with other interested parties. Net revenue we may generate by performing our test for interested customers could be deployed to continue progress toward our goal of developing a serum-based test for the early diagnosis of AD. We are actively continuing our efforts and are in discussions with companies that may utilize our CSF-based diagnostic test. Currently there is no FDA-approved diagnostic test to detect AD. Before approval by the FDA for general sale, under certain conditions, companies can supply either “investigational use only” or “research use only” assay kits under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment (“CLIA”) of 1988. As part of our plan to seek commercialization opportunities for our proposed diagnostic products, we may pursue some form of agreement with a reference lab. Transgenic Mice Model Dr. Peter Davies, through collaboration with a researcher at Nathan Klein Institute (“NKI”), has developed a transgenic mouse containing the human tau gene that develops human paired helical filaments, the building blocks of the neurofibrillary tangles, which are known to be involved in the pathology of Alzheimer’s disease. The pathology in these mice is Alzheimer-like, with hyperphosphorylated tau accumulating in cell bodies and dendrites as neurofibrillary tangles. In addition, these transgenic mice have exhibited extensive neuronal death that accompanies the tau pathology. These transgenic mice could be used for testing the efficacy of therapeutic compounds. To date, no widely accepted animal model that exhibits both AD pathologies has been developed. AECOM and the New York State Office of Mental Health, the agency that oversees NKI, each have an interest in these transgenic mice. Through our agreements with AECOM, we have license rights to AECOM’s interest in these transgenic mice. In 2006, we entered into additional license agreements that provide us with the exclusive rights to sell these mice. The mice are currently available through Jackson Laboratories. In December 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell a breeding pair of these mice. Research and Product Development If we are able to fund our operations, we expect to continue to spend a significant amount of our financial resources on research and development activities. We incurred costs of approximately $1,472,000 in 2008 and $1,659,000 in 2007 on research and development activities. Since we are not yet engaged in the commercial distribution of any diagnostic or therapeutic products and we have no revenues from the sale of any such products, these research and development costs must be funded through equity or debt financing or payments received from collaborators. Throughout our collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly will provide annual research and development support that partially offsets these expenses. We estimate that we will incur costs of approximately $120,000 to $150,000 per month on research and development activities over the next twenty-four months. This excludes the non-cash charges resulting from accounting for equity instruments included in such monthly expenditures. These expenditures, however, may fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year depending upon the resources available and our development schedule. Lilly will fund the vast majority of all pre-clinical research and development and will fully finance the clinical testing, manufacturing, sales and marketing of AD therapeutics developed from our collaboration. If we were to conduct diagnostic validation and proof of concept work, and/or diagnostic clinical trials, our research and development expenditures would most likely increase significantly. In addition, regulatory decisions and competitive developments may significantly influence the amount of our research and development expenditures. 7 Sales and Marketing We do not have marketing and sales expertise or personnel. As we currently do not intend to develop a marketing and sales force, we will depend on arrangements with corporate partners or other entities for the marketing and sale of our proposed products. Under our agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly has an exclusive world-wide license to market and sell any AD therapeutic, if any, that comes to market from our collaboration agreement. We do not currently have any agreements with partners or other entities to provide sales and marketing services for our proposed diagnostic products, but would seek those arrangements at the appropriate time. Manufacturing We currently do not have any facilities suitable for manufacturing on a commercial scale basis any of our proposed products nor do we have any experience in volume manufacturing. We will either find our own manufacturing facilities, rely upon third-party manufacturers to manufacture our proposed products in accordance with these regulations, or we will most likely utilize the capabilities of our partners and/or collaborators. Under our agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly has an exclusive world-wide license to manufacture any therapeutic for AD that comes to market from our collaboration agreement. Competition Companies in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology fields are subject to intense competition. We compete with numerous larger companies that have substantially greater financial and other resources and more experience. The principal factors affecting our competitive markets include scientific and technological factors, the availability of patent and other protection for technology and products, the ability, length of time and cost required to obtain governmental approval for testing, manufacturing and marketing and physician acceptance. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before us may achieve a significant competitive advantage. In addition, such companies may succeed in developing products that are more effective and less costly than products that may be developed by us. There can be no assurance that developments by other companies will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive or that we will be able to keep pace with the technological developments of our competitors. We believe that some of our competitors are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired therapeutic or diagnostic effect than products being developed by us. These competing products may be more effective and less costly than the products developed by us. Significant levels of research within our fields of interest occur at universities, non-profit institutions, and for-profit organizations. These entities compete with us in recruiting skilled scientific talent. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend upon our ability to create and maintain scientifically advanced technology, obtain adequate funding, develop proprietary products, attract and retain scientific personnel, obtain patent or other protection for our products, develop strategic alliances to enhance the likelihood of success, obtain required regulatory approvals and manufacture and successfully market our products either directly by us or through our collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company and other collaborations or partnerships we may enter into. Diagnostics There is currently no FDA-approved diagnostic to detect Alzheimer's disease ("AD"), although there are tests available under the CLIA exemption through reference labs. If any of our current diagnostic programs are ultimately successfully marketed, they would compete against, or augment, the most widely used current practice of detecting AD through a battery of tests, namely neurological and psychiatric examinations, extensive laboratory tests and brain imaging to rule out other conditions (such as stroke, brain tumor, or depression) with similar symptoms. The AD predictive accuracy of such a battery of exams is generally in the range of 80%-90% in some of the larger AD centers, but is usually closer to 60% when diagnosed outside of the AD centers. Costs to patients for such testing can range from $1,000 - $4,000, including imaging procedures. A simple, predictive, accurate and cost effective diagnostic test could, therefore, be an attractive alternative for medical practitioners and insurers to the current practice to detect AD. If the test was a serum-based test it could potentially be utilized as a routine screening test. 8 We are aware of other companies and academic institutions pursuing the development of biochemical markers to be utilized in the diagnosis of AD. Potential competitors include Nymox Pharmaceutical Corp. and Innogenetics, who have developed diagnostic tests for AD. Athena Diagnostics has “research use only” type CSF-based tests available, and others (Satoris, Power 3 Medical, Proteosome Science, Acumen and Bio-Rad/Cyphergen) have programs directed toward identifying proteomic or genetic markers for AD. Competitive diagnostics in development, as well as some that are marketed through reference laboratories, include approaches which attempt to identify AD patients by measuring: (i) normal tau, total tau or phosphorylated tau in CSF, either individually, or as part of a panel, (ii) beta amyloid, (iii) neural thread protein in CSF and/or urine, (iv) amyloid derived diffusible ligands (ADDL’s) in CSF, (v) imaging plaques in the brain, or (vi) employing proteomic or genetic markers for AD. Much of our knowledge of potential competitors and their diagnostic tests comes from our review of published articles in scientific journals. Publications and other information publicly available indicate that tests being developed by these companies and others are unable to adequately distinguish AD from other brain disorders or are in too early a development stage to be evaluated. At this time, we believe our CSF-based diagnostic test exhibits a unique ability to recognize early stage AD and to differentiate patients diagnosed with AD from patients diagnosed with other forms of dementia and relevant neurological diseases, including major depression, as well as healthy controls. In addition, our CSF-based diagnostic test has shown to be a strong predictor of the decline from MCI to AD. Therapeutics The only products with FDA approved label claims for pharmaceutical management of AD in the U.S. provide symptomatic treatment through the use of acetylcholinesterase (“AchE”) inhibitors, of which there are four: Aricept/donepezil (Pfizer and Esai), Exelon/rivastigmine (Novartis), Razadyne/galantamine (Johnson & Johnson), and Cognex/tacrine (Pfizer); or through the use of NMDA antagonists, of which there is one: Namenda/memantine (Forest Labs). Despite limited clinical effectiveness and a poor safety and side effect profile, sales of these drugs in 2007 were nearly $4.5 billion, according to CNN.com. The market for AD therapy is expected to grow, based on the aging demographic of the seven major pharmaceutical markets (USA, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, U.K. and Japan). AchE inhibitors remain the largest class of drugs within the late stage development pipeline. However, their apparent limited efficacy would seem to provide an opportunity for other promising compounds. It is estimated that over 100 potential compounds are currently being developed by both major pharmaceutical companies as well as small biotech companies. The lack of current effective pharmacological therapy for an increasing AD population provides an attractive opportunity for therapeutics we may discover utilizing our novel therapeutic approach in our collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company. Patents, licenses, trade secrets and proprietary rights Our success depends and will continue to depend, in part, upon our ability to retain our exclusive licenses, to maintain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets and proprietary information and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. We believe in securing and supporting a strong competitive position through the filing and prosecution of patents where available, and through trade secrets, when patenting is precluded. We have filed patent applications in the U.S. for composition of matter and use of compounds to treat AD, method of use, as well as aspects of our diagnostic test technologies for use in MCI and methods for developing novel therapeutic screens for the discovery of compounds useful in the treatment of AD, novel approaches to therapeutic intervention, transgenic mouse production and a novel gene. Patent Cooperation Treaty (P.C.T.) applications have been filed abroad, when applicable. 9 Alzheimer's disease technology license We have various License and Collaborative Research Agreements (the "Agreements") with Albert Einstein College of Medicine ("AECOM"). These Agreements grant us the exclusive rights to neurodegenerative disease technology, primarily Alzheimer's disease technology for diagnostic and therapeutic applications from Dr. Peter Davies’ lab at AECOM. These Agreements were amended in March 2002, in September 2002, in October 2006, and again in December 2008 and remain effective on an evergreen basis. The minimum annual payments to be made to AECOM, which consist of payments due for support of research conducted in Dr. Davies' lab and for annual license maintenance, are as follows: Year Amount 2008 and each subsequent year $500,000 As part of the December 2008 amendment, AECOM has agreed to defer the 2009 semi-annual maintenance payments until the earlier of December 31, 2009 or a fund raise at least equal to $3,500,000. In exchange for this deferral, we agreed to prepay the quarterly funding payments that are due in February 2009, May 2009 and August 2009. This prepayment of $112,500 was made in December 2008. We are obligated to continue to pay AECOM $500,000 for each year after 2008 in which the Agreements are still in effect. In addition, we are obligated to pay AECOM a percentage of all revenues we receive from selling and/or licensing aspects of the AD technology licensed under the Agreements that exceeds the minimum obligations reflected in the annual license maintenance payments. Confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements We require our employees, consultants and advisors having access to our confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements upon commencement of their employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information we develop or make known to the individual during the course of the individual's employment or consulting relationship with us must be kept confidential by the individual and not disclosed to any third parties. We also require all of our employees and consultants who perform research and development for us to execute agreements that generally provide that all inventions conceived by these individuals will be our property. Government regulation The research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our potential products are subject to substantial regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. These national agencies and other federal, state, and local entities regulate, among other things, research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising, and promotion of our potential products. Therapeutics As an initial step in the FDA regulatory approval process for a prospective therapeutic product, preclinical studies are typically conducted in animals to identify potential safety problems. For certain diseases, animal models may exist which are believed to be predictive of human efficacy. For these diseases, a drug candidate is tested in an animal model. The results of the studies are submitted to the FDA as a part of an Investigational New Drug Application (“IND”), which is filed to comply with FDA regulations prior to beginning human clinical testing. Clinical trials for new therapeutics are typically conducted in three sequential phases, although the phases may overlap. In Phase I, the compound is tested in healthy human subjects for safety (adverse effects), dosage tolerance, absorption, biodistribution, metabolism, excretion, clinical pharmacology and, if possible, to gain early information on effectiveness. Phase II typically involves studies in a small sample of the intended patient population to assess the efficacy of the drug for a specific indication, to determine dose tolerance and the optimal dose range, and to gather additional information relating to safety and potential adverse effects. Phase III trials are comparative clinical studies undertaken to further evaluate clinical safety and efficacy in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed study sites in order to determine the overall risk-benefit ratio of the drug and to provide an adequate basis for physician labeling. Each trial is conducted in accordance with certain standards under protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety and efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Further, each clinical study must be evaluated by an independent Institutional Review Board (IRB) at the institution at which the study will be conducted. The IRB will consider, among other things, ethical factors, the safety of human subjects and the possible liability of the institution. 10 Data from preclinical testing and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA in a New Drug Application (“NDA”) for marketing approval. Preparing an NDA involves considerable data collection, verification, analysis and expense, and there can be no assurance that any approval will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. The approval process is affected by a number of factors, including the severity of the disease, the availability of alternative treatments and the risks and benefits demonstrated in clinical trials. The FDA may deny an NDA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied or require additional testing or information. Among the conditions for marketing approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the FDA's good manufacturing practices (“GMP”) regulations, which must be followed at all times. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, monies and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Manufacturing establishments serving the U.S. markets, both foreign and domestic, are subject to inspections by, or under the authority of, the FDA and by other federal, state or local agencies. The process of completing clinical testing and obtaining FDA approval for a new drug is likely to take a number of years from the commencement of the clinical trial and require the expenditure of substantial resources. We would require significant additional funds in the future to finance the clinical testing process if we developed any therapeutic products on our own. Under our agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, however, Lilly will finance the clinical testing process of any AD therapeutic developed from our collaboration. Diagnostic In vitro diagnostic products have a different path to regulatory approval, i.e., the Premarket Approval Application (“PMA”) process regulated by the Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Device and Safety (“OIVD”) of the FDA. The regulatory process leading to a submission of an in vitro diagnostic device PMA for FDA approval to market involves a multistage process including: (1) a Pre-Investigational Device Exemption (“Pre-IDE”) program in which preliminary information is submitted to the FDA for review and guidance on, and acceptance of, the test protocol and proposed clinical trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of an in vitro diagnostic product followed by, (2) an Investigational Device Exemption (“IDE”) submission for approval to allow the investigational diagnostic device to be used in a clinical study in order to (3) collect safety and effectiveness data required to support a PMA to receive FDA approval to market a device. Data from a clinical trial is used to evaluate the clinical performance of the diagnostic test. Before FDA approval for general sale, under certain conditions, companies can supply either “investigational use only” or “research use only” assays under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment (“CLIA”) of 1988. Whether we will be able to market kits under these regulatory categories, or obtain final approval for a kit for specific claims, is uncertain given changing regulatory environments in most major markets. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, regulatory authorities in foreign countries must grant approval prior to the commencement of commercial sales of the product in such countries. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials and market entry vary widely from country to country, and the time required for clearance may be longer or shorter than that required by the FDA. Although there are some procedures for unified filings for certain European countries, in general, each country at this time has its own procedures and requirements. We would require significant additional funds in the future to finance the clinical testing process if we developed any diagnostic products on our own. As funds permit, we will continue advancing the development of our diagnostic program, while pursuing appropriate partnering and/or out-licensing opportunities. Environmental regulation In connection with our research and development activities, our business is, and will in the future continue to be, subject to regulation under various state and federal environmental laws. These laws and regulations govern our use, handling and disposal of various biological and chemical substances used in our operations. Although we believe that we have complied with these laws and regulations in all material respects and we have not been required to take any action to correct any noncompliance, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to incur significant costs of comply with health and safety regulations in the future. 11 Employees As of February 27, 2009 we had six full-time employees, two of whom have advanced scientific degrees. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we believe all relations with our employees are satisfactory. In addition, to complement our internal expertise, we have license agreements with AECOM that provide access to Dr. Peter Davies and the academic researchers in his lab and we may contract with other academic research laboratories, outside organizations with specific expertise and scientific consultants that provide pertinent expertise with therapeutic and diagnostic development. In the future, we may hire additional research, development and other personnel in addition to utilizing outside organizations and consultants. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our cash balances, coupled with our R & D support from Eli Lilly and Company for 2009, should be sufficient to fund our current planned development activities into the middle of the third quarter of 2009. We will need to raise funds prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009 in order to continue operations and we may have to amend our charter to increase our authorized shares of common stock in order to raise adequate capital and we may have difficulty raising capital. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash of $1,045,020. We anticipate that our cash balances at December 31, 2008, coupled with our R & D support for 2009 from Eli Lilly and Company, should be sufficient to fund our current level of operations through the middle of the third quarter of 2009. We will need additional funding prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009 in order to continue our research, product development and our operations. The cash on hand will be used for ongoing research and development, working capital, general corporate purposes and possibly to secure appropriate partnerships and expertise. Since we do not expect to generate significant revenues from operations in 2009 and 2010, we will be required to raise additional capital in financing transactions or through some form of collaborative partnership in order to satisfy our expected cash expenditures after the middle of the third quarter of 2009. We expect to raise such additional capital by selling shares of our capital stock, proceeds from exercises of existing warrants and/or stock options and/or by borrowing money. However, such additional capital may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. As of March 26, 2009, we have 48,411,861 authorized shares of common stock available for issuance. In September 2008, at our annual stockholders meeting, the stockholders approved a proposal to amend our certificate of incorporation to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock at any time prior to June 30, 2009 at a ratio between 1-for-20 and 1-for-30 as determined by our Board of Directors and to decrease our authorized common stock from 200 million shares to 100 million shares. The proposal required the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock, and 78,351,083 shares of common stock, or 60.2% of the outstanding shares of common stock, voted to approve the proposal. After the reverse stock split and the change in authorized shares of common stock have occurred, we will have sufficient available authorized shares of common stock to issue in a funding and for other uses as deemed appropriate by our Board of Directors. Further, if we sell additional shares of our capital stock, current ownership positions in our Company will be subject to dilution. In the event that we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may be forced to further reduce key operating expenditures or to cease operations altogether. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. We have had recurring net losses, including net losses for each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and have an accumulated deficit of approximately $50.3 million as of December 31, 2008. In the view of our independent registered public accountants, these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We anticipate that our cash balances at December 31, 2008, coupled with our R & D support from Eli Lilly and Company for 2009, should be sufficient to fund our current level of operations into the middle of the third quarter of 2009. We will need additional funding prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009 in order to continue our research, product development and operations. If we are successful in achieving our next milestone to establish the feasibility of the Company’s serum-based diagnostic test, we believe the Company could begin generating revenue from our serum diagnostic program in late 2010 to mid 2011 under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment of 1988 (“CLIA”). Under CLIA, companies can supply either “investigational use only” or “research use only” tests, which do not require FDA approval, but are subject to certain regulatory conditions. In order to sell our serum-based diagnostic test under CLIA, we would need to contract or partner with a CLIA certified lab. Since we do not expect to generate significant revenues from the sales of our serum-based diagnostic test under CLIA until 2011, our ability to continue as a going concern depends, in large part, on our ability to raise additional capital prior to the middle of the third quarter 2009, either through some form of collaboration or joint venture or debt or equity financing, which may include the exercise of outstanding stock options and/or warrants. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to discontinue our business. 12 We are a development stage company without any products currently being validated under CLIA regulations or in FDA clinical trials. We are a development stage company. Our product furthest along is a diagnostic test which detects Alzheimer’s disease utilizing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Our other potential diagnostic and therapeutic products and technologies are early in the research and development phase, and product revenues may not be realized from the sale of any such products for at least the next several years, if at all. Our proposed products will require significant additional research and development efforts prior to any commercial use, including extensive preclinical and clinical testing as well as lengthy regulatory approval, whether under CLIA regulations, or under the FDA approval process. There can be no assurances that our research and development efforts will be successful, that our potential products will prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials or that we will develop any commercially successful products. We currently have no approved products on the market and have not received any commercial revenues from the sale or license of any diagnostic or therapeutic products. We have a history of operating losses and expect to sustain losses in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $50.3 million. We expect to incur operating losses over the next several years as our research and development efforts continue. Our ability to achieve profitability depends in part upon our ability, alone or with or through others, to raise additional capital to execute our business plan, to advance development of our proposed products, to obtain required regulatory approvals, to manufacture and market our products, and to successfully commercialize our approved products. We need to raise additional capital by the middle of the third quarter of 2009, however, we may not be able to raise such capital, or we may only be able to raise capital on unfavorable terms. Our operations to date have consumed substantial amounts of cash. Our development of our technologies and potential products will require substantial funds to conduct the costly and time-consuming activities necessary to research, develop and optimize our technologies, and ultimately, to establish manufacturing and marketing capabilities. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including: · continued scientific progress in the research and development of our technologies; · our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements with others for product development; · progress with validation testing, pre-clinical and clinical trials; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; · competing technological and market developments; · changes in our existing research relationships; and · effective product commercialization activities and arrangements. We anticipate that our cash balances at December 31, 2008, coupled with our R & D support from Eli Lilly and Company for 2009, should be sufficient to fund our current level of operations through the middle of the third quarter of 2009. We will need additional funding prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009 in order to continue our research, product development and our operations. The cash on hand will be used for ongoing research and development, working capital, general corporate purposes and possibly to secure appropriate partnerships and expertise. If additional funding is not obtained, we will not be able to continue funding the costs of any programs, and we may have to significantly minimize or eliminate our programs, and possibly discontinue all our product development and/or our operations. We are currently evaluating our options to maximize the value of our diagnostic technology, including seeking partnerships and licensing arrangements. 13 We face extensive governmental regulation and any failure to comply could prevent or delay product approval or cause the disallowance of our products after approval The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and comparable agencies in foreign countries, impose many requirements on the introduction of new therapeutics through lengthy and detailed clinical testing procedures, and other costly and time consuming compliance procedures relating to the manufacture, distribution, advertising, pricing and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These requirements make it difficult to estimate when any of our products in development will be available commercially, if at all. The regulatory process takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Clinical trials for diagnostic products, including the FDA submission and approval process, generally take less time than for therapeutic products. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. We may also encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop our products and/or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval of a particular product. Delays in obtaining regulatory agency approvals will make the projects more costly and adversely affect our business. Diagnostic products have a different path to regulatory approval than the path for pharmaceutical products. Before approval by the FDA for general sale, under certain conditions, companies can supply either “investigational use only” or “research use only” assay kits under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment (“CLIA”) of 1988. In vitro diagnostic products have a different path to FDA regulatory approval, i.e., the Premarket Approval Application (PMA) process regulated by the Office of In Vitro Diagnostic Device and Safety (OIVD) of the FDA. The regulatory process leading to a submission of an in vitro diagnostic device PMA for FDA approval to market involves a multistage process including: (1) a Pre-Investigational Device Exemption (Pre-IDE) program in which preliminary information is submitted to the FDA for review and guidance on, and acceptance of, the test protocol and proposed clinical trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of an in vitro diagnostic product followed by, (2) an Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) submission for approval to allow the investigational diagnostic device to be used in a clinical study in order to (3) collect safety and effectiveness data required to support a PMA to receive FDA approval to market a device. Even if we successfully enroll patients in clinical trials for our diagnostic or therapeutic products, setbacks are a common occurrence in clinical trials. These setbacks often include: · Failure to comply with the regulations applicable to such testing may delay, suspend or cancel our clinical trials, · The FDA might not accept the test results, · The FDA, or any comparable regulatory agency in another country, may suspend clinical trials at any time if it concludes that the trials expose subjects participating in such trials to unacceptable health risks · Human clinical testing may not show any current or future product candidate to be safe and effective to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable regulatory agencies · The data derived from clinical trials may be unsuitable for submission to the FDA or other regulatory agencies. In 2005 we filed with the FDA a Pre-Investigational Device Exemption (“Pre-IDE”) application with respect to our CSF-based diagnostic test and we had our Pre-IDE meeting with the FDA in November 2005. Subsequent to our meeting with the FDA, we worked with our clinical consultants to refine our clinical protocol. At that time, work was suspended until such time that we, along with our consultants, could identify a cost effective protocol that would be acceptable to the FDA and offer the opportunity to obtain desired claims and indications. It is uncertain when we will file a Pre-IDE for any of our diagnostic programs in development. We have not filed any Investigation New Drug (“IND”) with respect to our AD therapeutic, and the timing of such filing in the future is uncertain, and subject to the progress of our collaboration with Eli Lilly and Company. We cannot predict with certainty when we might submit any of our proposed products currently under development for regulatory review. Once we submit a proposed product for review, the FDA or other regulatory agencies may not issue their approvals on a timely basis, if at all. If we are delayed or fail to obtain such approvals, our business may be adversely affected. If the FDA grants approval for a drug or device, such approval may limit the indicated uses for which we may market the drug or device and this could limit the potential market for such drug or device. Furthermore, if we obtain approval for any of our products, the marketing and manufacture of such products remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. Even if the FDA grants approval, such approval would be subject to continual review, and later discovery of unknown problems could restrict the products future use or cause their withdrawal from the market. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, either prior to approval or in marketing our products after approval, we could be subject to regulatory or judicial enforcement actions. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could, among other things, result in: 14 · product recalls or seizures; · fines and penalties; · injunctions; · criminal prosecution; · refusals to approve new products and withdrawal of existing approvals; and/or · enhanced exposure to product liabilities. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and quality. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval detailed above. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of other countries. In addition, many countries require regulatory agency approval of pricing and may also require approval for the marketing in such countries of any drugs or devices we develop. We cannot be certain that we will obtain any regulatory approvals in other countries and the failure to obtain such approvals may materially adversely affect our business. Under our agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, however, all aspects of our therapeutic collaboration will be largely funded by Lilly. We may not identify a cost effective protocol for obtaining FDA approval that could yield desired claims for any of our proposed products Prior to beginning the clinical testing process required to obtain FDA approval for any of our proposed products, we must determine if there is a cost effective protocol that would be acceptable to the FDA and offer the opportunity to obtain desired claims and indications. If a cost effective clinical testing protocol cannot be structured in a time appropriate duration for a specific proposed product, we will not attempt to obtain FDA approval for that proposed product. This may reduce or eliminate any potential revenues we would receive from the proposed product. Our technologies are subject to licenses and termination of any of those licenses would seriously harm our business. We have exclusive licenses with Albert Einstein College of Medicine ("AECOM") covering virtually all of our Alzheimer's disease technology, including virtually all our AD related diagnostic and therapeutic products currently in development. We depend on these licensing arrangements to maintain rights to our products under development. These agreements require us to make payments in order to maintain our rights. The agreements also generally require us to pay royalties on the sale of products developed from the licensed technologies, fees on revenues from sublicensees, where applicable, and the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. We are currently in compliance with our license agreements, however, we will need to raise additional capital prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009 in order to meet our ongoing obligations to AECOM. If we fail to raise sufficient funds, and consequently default on our obligations to AECOM, our licenses could terminate, and we could lose the rights to our proprietary technologies. Such a loss would have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects. 15 Our collaboration agreement with Eli Lilly and Company may not provide the future payments we anticipate over the course of the agreement, or may not provide the future payments in a time frame consistent with our expectations, which could result in the termination of our operations In November 2006, we entered into an agreement with Eli Lilly and Company to develop therapeutics to treat AD. Lilly received the exclusive worldwide rights to the intellectual property related to our expertise in understanding the molecular neuropathology of AD as it pertains to the formation of neurofibrillary tangles. Lilly may not advance any of the technology under the agreement as fast, or as far, as we would anticipate, if at all, to provide us with the milestone and royalty payments we expected when we signed the agreement. In addition, Lilly may decide to allocate internal resources to other projects and slow down, or stop the work, under our collaboration agreement for a period of time, which could cause our technology under the agreement not to be advanced at the rate we expected, or not be advanced at all. Such a situation could have a material adverse effect on our operations and prospects and we may have to shut down, or scale back, our operations unless we could enter into a new partnership arrangement or raise capital. The demand for diagnostic products for Alzheimer’s disease may be limited because there is currently no cure or effective therapeutic products to treat the disease Since there is currently no cure or therapy that can stop the progression of Alzheimer’s disease, the market acceptance and financial success of a diagnostic technology capable of detecting Alzheimer’s disease may be limited. As a result, even if we successfully develop a safe and effective diagnostic technology for identifying this disease, its commercial value might be limited. The value of our research could diminish if we cannot protect, enforce and maintain our intellectual property rights adequately The pharmaceutical and diagnostic industries place considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes, and where possible, we actively pursue both domestic and foreign patent protection for our proprietary products and technologies. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technologies and to preserve our trade secrets. When patent protection is available, it is our policy to file patent applications in the United States and selected foreign jurisdictions. During our review of our patent portfolio in 2007 and 2008, we stopped maintaining some older method patents that we determined did not have the potential for any future benefit. We currently hold and maintain 4 issued United States patents and various related foreign patents. One of the issued United States patents is for our Alzheimer's diagnostic technology, two of the issued United States patents are for our Alzheimer's therapeutic technology and one of the issued United States patents relates to transgenic animals. One of the patents, issued in October 2007, relates to a gene that is nested within the tau gene that in turn creates the tau protein. One of the issued AD patents is assigned to AECOM and is licensed to us, and two of the issued AD patents are assigned to us. We currently have three patent applications filed, one has Alzheimer's diagnostic applications, one has Alzheimer's therapeutic applications, and one has both Alzheimer's diagnostic and therapeutic applications. The issued United States Alzheimer's technology patents expire between 2014 and 2023. No assurance can be given that our issued patents will provide competitive advantages for our technologies or will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors. With respect to already issued patents, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or that the patents will provide us proprietary protection or a commercial advantage. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached. The ability to develop our technologies and to commercialize products will depend on avoiding the infringement of patents of others. While we are aware of patents issued to competitors, we are not aware of any claim of patent infringement against us, except as described in the following two paragraphs. Any potential patent infringement may require us to acquire licensing rights to allow us to continue the development and commercialization of our products. Any such future claims concerning us infringing patents and proprietary technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, litigation may also be necessary to enforce any of our patents or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that our patents would be held valid by a court of competent jurisdiction. We may have to file suit to protect our patents or to defend use of our patents against infringement claims brought by others. Because we have limited cash resources, we may not be able to afford to pursue or defend against litigation in order to protect our patent rights. 16 In March 2004 we were notified by email from Innogenetics, a Belgian biopharmaceutical company involved in specialty diagnostics and therapeutic vaccines, that it believes the CSF diagnostic test we have been developing uses technology that is encompassed by the claims of its’ U.S. patents. Innogenetics also informed us that it could be amenable to entering into a licensing arrangement or other business deal with APNS regarding its patents. We had some discussions with Innogenetics concerning a potential business relationship, however no further discussions have been held since the second quarter of 2006. We have reviewed these patents with our patent counsel on several occasions prior to receipt of the email from Innogenetics and subsequent to receipt of the email. Based on these reviews, we believe that our CSF diagnostic test does not infringe the claims of these Innogenetics patents. If we were unable to reach a mutually agreeable arrangement with Innogenetics, we may be forced to litigate the issue. Expenses involved with litigation may be significant, regardless of the ultimate outcome of any litigation. An adverse decision could prevent us from possibly marketing a future diagnostic product and could have a material adverse impact on our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary technologies, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect. We rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and others to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy if unauthorized disclosure of confidential information occurs. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. None of our employees, consultants, scientific researchers or collaborators has any rights to publish scientific data and information generated in the development or commercialization of our products without our approval, with the exception of Eli Lilly and Company’s rights under our collaboration agreement. Under the license agreements with us, AECOM has a right to publish scientific results relating to the diagnosis of AD and precursor or related conditions in scientific journals, provided, that AECOM must give us pre-submission review of any such manuscript to determine if it contains any of our confidential information or patentable materials. We face large competitors and our limited financial and research resources may limit our ability to develop and market new products The biotechnology, diagnostic and pharmaceutical markets generally involve rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. Many companies, both public and private, are developing products to diagnose and to treat Alzheimer’s disease. Most of these companies have substantially greater financial, research and development, manufacturing and marketing experience and resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may more rapidly develop effective diagnostic products as well as therapeutic products that are more effective or less costly than any product that we may develop. Under our agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, however, all aspects of our therapeutic collaboration will be largely funded by Lilly. We also face competition from colleges, universities, governmental agencies and other public and private research institutions. These competitors are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties for use of technology that they have developed. Some of these technologies may compete directly with the technologies being developed by us. Also, these institutions may also compete with us in recruiting highly qualified scientific personnel. We do not have manufacturing capability and we must rely on third party manufacturers to produce our products, giving us limited control over the quality of our products and the volume of products produced While we have internally manufactured some of the reagents and materials necessary to conduct our activities related to research and development of our diagnostic products, we do not currently have any large scale manufacturing capability, expertise or personnel and expect to rely on outside manufacturers to produce material that will meet applicable standards for clinical testing of our products and for larger scale production if marketing approval is obtained. 17 We will either find our own manufacturing facilities, rely upon third-party manufacturers to manufacture our proposed products in accordance with appropriate regulations, or we will most likely utilize the capabilities of our partners and/or collaborators. Under our agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly has an exclusive world-wide license to manufacture, market and sell any AD therapeutic that comes to market from our collaboration agreement. We do not have any outside manufacturing agreements for our proposed diagnostic products. If we, or Lilly, choose to utilize an outside manufacturer, we cannot assure that any outside manufacturer that we, or Lilly, select will perform suitably or will remain in the contract manufacturing business, in which instances we (or Lilly) would need to find a replacement manufacturer or we would have to develop our own manufacturing capabilities. If we are unable to do so, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products could be delayed or impaired. Our ability, and Lilly’s ability, to market our products could also be affected by the failure of our third party manufacturers or suppliers to comply with the good manufacturing practices required by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. We do not have marketing and sales staff to sell our products and we must rely on third parties to sell and market our products, the cost of which may make our products less profitable for us We do not have marketing and sales experience or personnel. As we currently do not intend to develop a marketing and sales force, we will depend on arrangements with partners or other entities for the marketing and sale of our proposed products. Under our agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly has an exclusive world-wide license to market and sell any AD therapeutic that comes to market from our collaboration agreement. We do not currently have any agreements with corporate partners or other entities to provide sales and marketing services for our proposed diagnostic products. We may not succeed in entering into any satisfactory third-party arrangements for the marketing and sale of our proposed products, or we may not be able to obtain the resources to develop our own marketing and sales capabilities. We may never have an AD therapeutic come to market under the Lilly agreement, or we may never have a diagnostic product come to market. The failure to develop those capabilities, either externally or internally, may adversely affect future sales of our proposed products. We must rely on third party relationships to develop, manufacture and market our products without which we may fail We do not possess all the resources necessary to complete the development, clinical testing, regulatory process, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of our diagnostic and therapeutic products and we will need to obtain such resources from third parties. In order to obtain such resources, we will need to enter into collaborations with corporate partners, licensors, licensees and possibly relationships with third parties from whom we will outsource the necessary expertise and resources. Our success may depend on securing such relationships. This business strategy would utilize the expertise and resources of third parties in a number of areas including: · performing various activities associated with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; · preparing submissions seeking regulatory approvals; · manufacture of kits and solutions; and · sales and marketing of our products. This strategy of reliance on third party relationships creates risks to us by placing critical aspects of our business in the hands of third parties, whom we may not be able to control as effectively as our own personnel. For example, under our agreement with Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly has an exclusive world-wide license to manufacture, market and sell any AD therapeutics that comes to market from our collaboration agreement. We cannot be sure that the Lilly agreement or any future collaborative agreements will be successful. If these third parties, such as Eli Lilly and Company, do not perform in a timely and satisfactory manner, we may incur additional costs and lose time in our development and clinical programs as well as the commercialization our products. To the extent we choose not to, or are not able to, establish such arrangements, we could experience increased risk and capital requirements. We do not have the ability to conduct clinical trials independently. We intend to rely on our partners, clinical investigators and third-party clinical research organizations to perform a significant portion of these functions. There can be problems with using third-party clinical research organizations such as: 18 · we are not able to locate acceptable contractors to run this portion of our clinical trials; · we can not enter into favorable agreements with them; · third parties may not successfully carryout their contractual duties; and/or · third parties may not meet expected deadlines If any of these problems occur, we will be unable to obtain required regulatory approvals and will be unable to commercialize our products on a timely basis, if at all. We are dependent on our key employees and consultants, who may not readily be replaced We are highly dependent upon the principal members of our management team, especially Ellen R. Hoffing, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Peter Davies, Ph.D., our founding scientist, as well as our other officers and directors. Ms. Hoffing’s employment agreement is effective through August 29, 2009. Our consulting agreement with Dr. Davies was renewed in November 2008 and is effective through November 2011. We do not have employment agreements with John DeBernardis, Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer, and David Ellison, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary. We do not currently maintain key-man life insurance and the loss of any of these persons' services, and the resulting difficulty in finding sufficiently qualified replacements, could adversely affect our ability to develop and market our products and obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Our success also will depend in part on the continued service of other key scientific personnel, and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional staff, if necessary. We face intense competition for qualified employees and consultants. Large pharmaceutical companies and other competitors, which have greater resources and experience than we have, can, and do, offer superior compensation packages to attract and retain skilled personnel. As a result, we may have difficulty retaining such employees and consultants because we may not be able to match the packages offered by such competitors and large pharmaceutical companies, and we may have difficulty attracting suitable replacements. We expect that our potential expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as clinical trials, governmental approvals, contract and manufacturing and sales and marketing, will be done by working with outside contractors who have the appropriate expertise or by utilizing collaborators / partners. The management of these processes may require an increase in management and scientific personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could materially adversely affect prospects for our success. If our current research collaborators, scientific advisors, and specifically our founding scientist, Dr. Peter Davies, terminate their agreements with us, or develop relationships with competitors, our ability to advance existing programs and add new tools and technologies could be adversely impacted. We derive significant support and benefit from research collaborators and other expertise that we utilize. These collaborators are not our employees and operate under consulting agreements that are subject to termination provisions. Our core technology in the AD field is based on exclusive licenses with AECOM covering virtually all of our diagnostic and therapeutic applications in the field of neurodegenerative diseases. We therefore cannot control the explicit amount of time or output that is derived from our collaborators through our agreements. Dr. Davies is currently actively deploying the time and resources at his lab at AECOM that is necessary to advance our collaboration agreement with Eli Lilly and Company as well as providing support to our diagnostic development programs. We may not derive any new or additional tools or technologies from our relationship with Dr. Davies at AECOM, that would be appropriate for us to develop, or that fall outside of the rights of the Lilly collaboration. We use hazardous materials in our research and that may subject us to liabilities in excess of our resources Our research and development involves the controlled use of hazardous materials such as acids, caustic agents, flammable solvents and carcinogens. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply in all material respects with the standards prescribed by government regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result. Although we have insurance coverage for third-party liabilities of this nature, such liability beyond this insurance coverage could exceed our resources. Our insurance for hazardous materials liabilities has a deductible of $5,000 and a cap on coverage for damages of $250,000. There can be no assurance that current or future environmental or transportation laws, rules, regulations or policies will not have a material adverse effect on us. 19 If we have any products used in clinical trials or products sold commercially, potential product liability claims against us could result in reduced demand for our products or extensive damages in excess of insurance coverage The use of our products in clinical trials or from commercial sales will expose us to potential liability claims if such use, or even their misuse, results in injury, disease or adverse effects. We intend to obtain product liability insurance coverage before we initiate clinical trials for any of our products. This insurance is expensive and insurance companies may not issue this type of insurance when needed. Any product liability claim resulting from the use of our diagnostic test in a clinical study, even one that was not in excess of our insurance coverage or one that is meritless, could adversely affect our ability to complete our clinical trials or obtain FDA approval of our product, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The healthcare reimbursement environment is uncertain and our customers may not get significant insurance reimbursement for our products, which could have a materially adverse affect on our sales and our ability to sell our products Recent efforts by governmental and third-party payors, including private insurance plans, to contain or reduce the costs of health care could affect the levels of revenues and profitability of pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology products and companies. For example, in some foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, there have been a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government control. Pricing constraints on our potential products could negatively impact revenues and profitability. In the United States and elsewhere, successful commercialization of our products will depend in part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer using our products from third-party health care payors. Insufficient reimbursement levels could affect demand for our products, and therefore, our ability to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Third-party health care payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. If we succeed in bringing one or more products to market, and the government or third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage or reimbursement rates for those products, it could reduce our product revenues and profitability. Current proposed regulations for reference laboratory developed diagnostic tests may impact our ability to sell our proposed diagnostic tests under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment (“CLIA”) exemption Governmental agencies are currently reviewing additional regulations to be imposed on reference laboratory developed diagnostic tests, so called “homebrew” tests, including evidence of analytic and clinical validity and enhanced labeling requirements. In addition, there have been discussions concerning lower Medicare reimbursement for non-FDA approved tests. Increased FDA regulation of reference laboratory developed diagnostic tests could significantly increase the costs and significantly reduce the demand for such tests. We must enroll a sufficient number of participants in our clinical trials and generate clinical data that shows our products are safe and effective in order to obtain the necessary regulatory approval to market our products In order to sell our products, we must receive regulatory approval to market our products. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through all necessary regulatory studies, including pre-clinical and clinical trials, that the product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. If our products fail in research, development and/or clinical trials, this may have a significant negative impact on us. In addition, the results from pre-clinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in late stage clinical trials. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain regulatory approvals. The completion rate of our clinical trials is dependent on, among other factors, the patient enrollment rate. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors including: 20 · patient population size; · access to patients; · competitive trials; · the nature of the protocol to be used in the trial; · patient proximity to clinical sites; and · eligibility criteria for the study Delays in patient enrollment would increase costs and delay ultimate sales, if any, of our products. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly due to reasons unrelated to our operations, our products or our financial results. Our stock price may decrease if we have to issue a large number of shares of common stock in order to raise the additional funds needed prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009. Stock prices for many technology companies fluctuate widely for reasons which may be unrelated to operating performance or new product or service announcements. Broad market fluctuations, earnings and other announcements of other companies, general economic conditions or other matters unrelated to us or our operations and outside our control also could affect the market price of the Common Stock. During the 2008 fiscal year, the highest closing price of our stock was $0.13 and the lowest closing price of our stock during the same period was $0.02. At our current level of operations, we have sufficient cash to last into the middle of the third quarter of 2009, and we will need to raise additional funds prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009. In order to raise additional funds, we may have to sell a significant number of shares of our common stock and/or issue warrants exercisable to purchase shares of our common stock. While the inflow of additional funds may cause our stock price to increase, the prospect of issuing, or the actual issuance of, a substantial number of additional shares of common stock may cause our stock price to decrease. We will need to increase the number of our authorized shares of common stock in order to raise a meaningful amount of capital through the sale of equity securities. Such increase has been approved by our stockholders. We have 200,000,000 authorized shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had 130,217,808 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, and we have reserved (i) 43,273,903 shares of common stock for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and (ii) 19,430,497 shares of common stock for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options. In January 2009, 234,370 stock options expired, unexercised. In February 2009, 34,690,824 warrants expired, unexercised and 799,752 options were issued. In March 2009, we had a stock option exchange program that resulted in a net decrease of 7,208,627 stock options outstanding. As of March 26, 2009, we have 48,411,861 shares of common stock available for issuance in any capital raising transaction. Because we may have to issue warrants in any equity deal to raise capital, we could have significantly less than 48.4 million shares to sell, which reduces the amount of capital we could raise. In order to be able to raise a significant amount of capital for future operations, we will need to increase our available shares of authorized common stock. In September 2008, at our annual stockholders meeting, the stockholders approved a proposal to amend our certificate of incorporation to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock at any time prior to June 30, 2009 at a ratio between 1-for-20 and 1-for-30 as determined by our Board of Directors and to decrease our authorized common stock from 200 million shares to 100 million shares. After the reverse stock split and the change in authorized shares of common stock have occurred, we will have sufficient available authorized shares of common stock to issue in a funding and for other uses as deemed appropriate by our Board of Directors. Our share price may decline due to a large number of shares of our common stock eligible for sale in the public markets and a large number of shares of our common stock that could be issued upon the exercise of warrants and options should our stock price increase to a level above the exercise price of the warrants and options As of March 26, 2009, we had outstanding 130,217,808 shares of Common Stock, without giving effect to shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of (i) warrants issued to SF Capital, exercisable for 6,214,286 shares of or common stock, (ii) 10,120,585 options granted under our stock option plan, (iv) 2,666,667 options granted outside of our stock option plan, and (iv) 2,368,793 other warrants previously issued. Of such outstanding shares of common stock, all are freely tradable, except for any shares not yet registered, shares underlying stock options that are not yet vested, and any shares held by our "affiliates" within the meaning of the Securities Act (officers, directors and 10% security holders), which shares will be subject to the resale limitations of Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. We will need to raise capital prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009 and this may cause us to issue additional shares of our common stock in 2009. 21 The holders of our outstanding warrants and stock options may not exercise them, or they may expire before we are able to receive any proceeds from the exercise of these warrants and stock options As of March 26, 2009, we had 8,583,079 outstanding warrants and 12,787,252 outstanding stock options. The outstanding warrants have an average exercise price of $0.18 and have expiration dates between 2009 and 2013. The outstanding stock options have exercise prices ranging from $0.039 to $1.50 and have expiration dates between 2010 and 2019. We may not receive any significant proceeds from the exercise of these outstanding warrants and stock options due to market conditions and/or the expiration of the warrants and stock options prior to exercise. This could impact our future fund raising options. We have not paid any dividends and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future A predecessor of Applied NeuroSolutions liquidated most of its assets and paid a dividend to its shareholders in August 2001. We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Investors who require dividend income should not rely on an investment in our common stock to provide such dividend income. Potential income to investors in our common stock would only come from any rise in the market price of our common stock, which is uncertain and unpredictable. A limited market for our common stock and “Penny Stock” rules may make buying or selling our common stock difficult Our common stock presently trades in the over-the-counter market on the OTC Bulletin Board. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to sell, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our securities. In addition, our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The SEC regulations generally define a penny stock to be an equity that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Unless an exception is available, those regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions and high net worth individuals). In addition, the broker-dealer must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. Moreover, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to transactions prior to sale. Regulations on penny stocks could limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and thus the ability of purchasers of our common stock to sell their shares in the secondary market. Our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal controls over financial reporting are not adequate and may result in our failure to disclose items that we may be required to disclose under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act or may result in financial statements that are incomplete or subject to restatement Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) requires significant additional procedures and review processes of our system of internal controls. Section 404 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting beginning with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. In addition, our independent auditors must report on management’s evaluation of those controls for the year ending December 31, 2009. The additional costs associated with this process may be significant. Our internal controls under Section 404 may not be adequate. After documenting and testing our system, we have identified the following material weaknesses: · We lack segregation of duties in the period-end financial reporting process, and · Our accounting software has inherent control deficiencies. Due to these material weaknesses, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that as of December 31, 2008, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms. Consequently, we may fail to disclose items that we are required to report in our SEC filings, including registration statements, proxy statements and periodic reports. If we are required to amend prior reports as a result of failing to disclose required information, investors may react adversely to such amendments and our stock price may decrease. 22 Our Independent Registered Public Accountants have substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern We have had net losses for each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and we have an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008. Since the financial statements for each of these periods were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, in the view of our independent registered public accountants, these conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We anticipate that our cash balances at December 31, 2008, coupled with our R & D support from Eli Lilly and Company for 2009, should be sufficient to fund our current level of operations through the middle of the third quarter of 2009. We will need additional funding prior to the middle of the third quarter of 2009 in order to continue our research, product development and our operations. Since we do not expect to generate any material revenues for the foreseeable future, our ability to continue as a going concern depends, in large part, on our ability to raise additional capital prior to the middle of the third quarter 2009, either through some form of collaboration or joint venture or debt or equity financing, which may include the exercise of outstanding stock options and/or warrants. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to discontinue our business. ITEM 