Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Financial Condition If we are unable to develop the Delcath chemosaturation system, obtain regulatory approval outside the EEA or market and sell the system, we will not generate operating revenue or become profitable. The Delcath chemosaturation system, a platform technology for the isolation of various organs or regions of the body to permit the regional delivery of high doses of drugs, is our only product. Our entire focus has been on developing, commercializing, and obtaining regulatory authorizations and approvals of this product and currently we have only developed this system for the treatment of cancers in the liver with melphalan. If the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan fails as a commercial product, we have no other products to sell. In addition, since the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System is currently only authorized for marketing in the EEA, if we are unsuccessful in commercializing the product in the EEA and the Delcath chemosaturation system is not approved in the United States and elsewhere, we will have no other means of generating revenue. Continuing losses may exhaust our capital resources. As of December 31, 2011, we had $30.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and certificates of deposit. We have had no revenue to date, a substantial accumulated deficit, recurring operating losses and negative cash flow. We expect to continue to incur losses while generating minimal revenues over the next year. From our inception on August 5, 1988 through December 31, 2011, we have incurred cumulative net losses of approximately $145.4 million. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we incurred net losses of approximately $30.9 million, $46.7 million, and $22.1 million, respectively, with these amounts being effected by derivative accounting related to warrants as described in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. To date, we have funded our operations through a combination of private placements and public offerings of our securities. If we continue to incur losses, we may exhaust our capital resources, and as a result may be unable to complete our clinical trials, product development, regulatory approval process and commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan or any other versions of the system. If we cannot raise additional capital, our potential to generate future revenues will be significantly limited since we may not be able to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system, resubmit our NDA to the FDA or conduct future development and clinical trials. We may require additional financing to commercialize our product in the EEA and any other markets where we receive approval for our system, to resubmit our NDA seeking U.S. marketing approval or seek other approvals and to conduct future development and clinical trials. We do not know if additional financing will be available when needed at all or on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain additional financing as needed, we may not be able to able to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system commercially, obtain regulatory approvals or complete our development projects or our clinical trials. Our liquidity and capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: o our research and product development programs, including clinical studies; o the timing and costs of our various U.S. and foreign regulatory filings, obtaining approvals and complying with regulations; o the timing and costs associated with developing our manufacturing operations; o the timing of product commercialization activities, including marketing and distribution arrangements overseas; o the timing and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing intellectual property rights; and o the impact of competing technological and market developments. Insufficient funds may require us to curtail or stop our commercialization activities, submissions for regulatory approval, research and development and clinical trials, which will significantly limit our potential to generate future revenues. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to FDA and Foreign Regulatory Approval Our failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Delcath chemosaturation system is subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation by the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies. The FDA regulates the research, development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, record keeping, reporting, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, import and export of pharmaceutical and medical device products. Failure to comply with FDA and other applicable regulatory requirements may, either before or after product approval, subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. In the United States, the FDA regulates drug and device products under the FFDCA, and its implementing regulations. The Delcath chemosaturation system is subject to regulation by the FDA as a combination product, which means it is composed of both a drug product and device product. If marketed individually, each component would therefore be subject to different regulatory pathways and reviewed by different centers within the FDA. A combination product, however, is assigned to a center that will have primary jurisdiction over its pre-market review and regulation based on a determination of the product’s primary mode of action, which is the single mode of action that provides the most important therapeutic action. In the case of the Delcath chemosaturation system, the primary mode of action is attributable to the drug component of the product, which means that the CDER has primary jurisdiction over its pre-market development and review. We are not permitted to market the Delcath chemosaturation system in the United States unless and until we obtain regulatory approval from the FDA. To market the product in the United States, we must submit to the FDA and obtain FDA approval of an NDA. An NDA must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the applicable product candidate. Regulatory approval of an NDA is not guaranteed. The number and types of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required varies depending on the product candidate, the disease or condition that the product candidate is designed to target and the regulations applicable to any particular product candidate. Despite the time and expense associated with preclinical and clinical studies, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional preclinical studies, CMC studies or clinical trials. The FDA and similar foreign authorities could delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including because they: o may not deem a product candidate to be adequately safe and effective; o may not find the data from preclinical studies, CMC studies and clinical trials to be sufficient to support a claim of safety and efficacy; o may interpret data from preclinical studies, CMC studies and clinical trials significantly differently than we do; o may not approve the manufacturing processes or facilities associated with our product candidates; o may change approval policies (including with respect to our product candidates’ class of drugs) or adopt new regulations; or o may not accept a submission due to, among other reasons, the content or formatting of the submission. Undesirable side effects caused by any product candidate that we develop could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications or cause us to evaluate the future of our development programs. The regulatory review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and inherently uncertain. As part of the U.S. Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA has a goal to review and act on a percentage of all submissions in a given time frame. The general review goal for a drug application is ten months for a standard application and six months for a priority review application. The FDA’s review goals are subject to change and it is unknown whether the review of an NDA filing for any of our product candidates will be completed within the FDA’s review goals or will be delayed. Moreover, the duration of the FDA’s review may depend on the number and types of other NDAs that are submitted to FDA around the same time period. The development and approval process may take many years, require substantial resources and may never lead to the approval of a product. Failure to obtain or delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals may: o adversely affect the commercialization of the current Delcath chemosaturation system or any products that we develop in the future; o impose additional costs on us; o diminish any competitive advantages that may be attained; and o adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. We have obtained the right to affix the CE Mark for the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System as a medical device for the delivery of melphalan. Since we may only promote the device within this specific indication, if physicians are unwilling to obtain melphalan separately for use with the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System , our ability to commercialize the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System in the EEA will be significantly limited. In the EEA, the Delcath chemosaturation system is regulated as a medical device indicated for the intra-arterial administration of a chemotherapeutic agent, melphalan, to the liver with additional extracorporeal filtration of the venous blood return. Our ability to market and promote the Delcath chemosaturation system is limited to this approved indication. To the extent that our promotion of the Delcath chemosaturation system is found to be outside the scope of our approved indication, we may be subject to fines or other regulatory action, limiting our ability to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system in the EEA. 16 Table of Contents Our product instructions and indication reference the chemotherapeutic agent melphalan. However, no melphalan labels in the EEA reference our product, and the labels vary from country to country with respect to the approved indication of the drug and its mode of administration. As a result, the delivery of melphalan with our device may not be within the applicable melphalan label with respect to some indications in some Member States of the EEA where the drug is authorized for marketing. In the exercise of their professional judgment in the practice of medicine, physicians are generally allowed, under certain conditions, to use or prescribe a product in ways not approved by regulatory authorities. Physicians intending to use our device must obtain melphalan separately for use with the Delcath CHEMOSAT system and must use melphalan independently at their discretion. If physicians are unwilling to obtain melphalan separately from our product and/or to prescribe the use of melphalan independently, our sales opportunities in the EEA will be significantly impaired. While we have obtained the right to affix the CE Mark, we will be subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight in the EEA and in any other country where we receive marketing authorization or approval. In April 2011, we obtained the required certification from our European Notified Body, enabling us to complete an EC Declaration of Conformity with the essential requirements of the EU Medical Devices Directive and affix the CE Mark to the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System. In order to maintain the right to affix the CE Mark in the EEA, we are subject to compliance obligations, and any material changes to the approved product, such as manufacturing changes, product improvements or revised labeling, may require further regulatory review. Additionally, we will be subject to ongoing audits by our European Notified Body, and the right to affix the CE Mark to the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System m may be withdrawn for a number of reasons, including the later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product. To the extent that the Delcath chemosaturation system is approved by the FDA or any other regulatory agency, we will be subject to similar ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight in those countries where we obtain approval. For example, we may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase IV clinical trials, and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. In addition, if the FDA approves a product candidate, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs, good clinical practices, or GCPs, and good laboratory practices, which are regulations and guidelines enforced by the FDA for all products in clinical development, for any clinical trials that we conduct post-approval. In addition, post-marketing requirements for the Delcath chemosaturation system may include implementation of a REMS to ensure that the benefits of the product outweigh its risks. A REMS may include a Medication Guide, a patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare professionals and/or other elements to assure safe use of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with our third-party manufacturers or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: o refusals or delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications; o refusal of a regulatory authority to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications; o restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of the product, withdrawal of the product from the market or voluntary or mandatory product recalls or seizures; o fines, Warning Letters or holds on clinical trials; o import or export restrictions; o injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; o restrictions on product administration, requirements for additional clinical trials or changes to product labeling or REMS programs; or o recommendations by regulatory authorities against entering into governmental contracts with us. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. The development and approval process in the United States may take many years, require substantial resources and may never lead to the approval of the Delcath chemosaturation system by the FDA for use in the United States. We cannot sell or market the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agents in the United States without prior FDA approval of an NDA for the Delcath chemosaturation system. Although melphalan and other drugs have been approved by the FDA for use as chemotherapeutic agents, regulatory approval is required in the United States for the combined medical device component and drug component and the specific indication, dose and route of administration of melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agent used in our system. We are seeking approval of the Delcath chemosaturation system for a substantially higher dose of melphalan than prior approved doses of melphalan and such other drugs. We must obtain separate regulatory approvals for the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan and every other chemotherapeutic agent or other compound used with our system that we intend to market, and all the manufacturing facilities used to manufacture components or assemble our system must be inspected and meet legal requirements. Securing regulatory approval requires the submission of extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and other supporting information for each proposed therapeutic indication in order to establish to the FDA’s satisfaction the product’s safety, efficacy, potency and purity for each intended use. The pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan or any other chemotherapeutic agent or compound we use in our system must comply with the regulations of the FDA and other federal, state and local government authorities in the United States. Clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays. We may encounter delays or rejections for various reasons, including our inability to enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials. Moreover, approval policies or regulations may change. If we do not obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our system and our use of melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agents, the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. 17 Table of Contents In December 2010, we submitted our Section 505(b)(2) NDA to the FDA, seeking an indication for the percutaneous intra-arterial administration of melphalan for use in the treatment of patients with metastatic melanoma in the liver. An NDA submitted under Section 505(b)(2) of the FFDCA permits the application to incorporate information required for approval from studies not conducted by or for the application and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. Our Section 505(b)(2) application cited the safety information for melphalan submitted by prior NDA applicants for this drug. In February 2011, we received an RTF from the FDA for the NDA. In accordance with applicable regulations, the FDA has the ability to formally file or refuse to file an application within 60 days of the completion of the submission. The FDA will issue an RTF if it determines upon an initial review that the NDA is not sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. Neither the acceptance nor non-acceptance of an NDA for filing is a determination of the ultimate approvability of the drug product at issue. The RTF represented a determination by the FDA that, based on its preliminary review, the NDA is not sufficiently complete to permit a substantive review. The RTF requested information on a number of items, including manufacturing plant inspection timing, product and sterilization validations, statistical analysis clarification concerning randomization and additional safety information regarding patient hospitalization data in order to allow the FDA to properly assess the risk-benefit profile of the product candidate. On January 12, 2012, we held a pre-NDA meeting with the FDA to discuss our NDA submission and provide an update on the items identified in the RTF. Based upon the meeting and FDA correspondence received in response to our meeting request and the briefing packet we submitted, we are satisfied with the responses that we received from the FDA to certain questions we had regarding the NDA submission. Accordingly, we will continue with the preparation of our NDA submission as planned and expect to make the submission in the second quarter of 2012. If we are unable to properly address the issues raised in the RTF to the FDA’s satisfaction, we may be unable to resubmit our NDA to the FDA. Further, if we resubmit the NDA and subsequently receive a second RTF from the FDA, or, if it is accepted for filing and the FDA fails to approve the application after a substantive review, we will not be able to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system in the United States and our value and our results of operations will be harmed. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system in the United States, our ability to market the Delcath chemosaturation system would be limited to those uses that are approved. The FDA closely regulates the post-approval marketing and promotion of drugs, including standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, dissemination of off-label information, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and promotional activities involving the Internet. Drugs may be marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. In the United States, we intend to seek approval for use of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan in the treatment of ocular and cutaneous melanoma that has metastasized to the liver. If the FDA approves this application, our ability to market and promote the Delcath chemosaturation system would be limited to this indication for use only with melphalan in treating that specific disease, so even with FDA approval, the Delcath chemosaturation system may only be promoted in this limited market. Physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties, including oncology. Physicians may believe that such off-label uses are the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA does, however, impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers’ communications regarding off-label use, and FDA approval may otherwise limit our sales practices and our ability to promote, sell and distribute the product. Thus, we may only market the Delcath chemosaturation system, if approved by the FDA, for its approved indication and we could be subject to enforcement action for off-label marketing. Further, if there are any modifications to the product, including changes in indications, labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, we may be required to submit and obtain FDA approval of a new or supplemental NDA, which may require us to develop additional data or conduct additional preclinical studies and clinical trials. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in adverse publicity, Warning Letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties. 18 Table of Contents If we do not obtain required approvals in the United States and in the countries outside of the EEA in which we aim to market the Delcath chemosaturation system, we may not be able to export or sell the Delcath chemosaturation system in those markets, which will limit our sales opportunities. We intend to leverage our CE Mark to obtain required regulatory approvals for the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System in other parts of the world, including Asia. However, our lack of experience conducting clinical trials outside the United States may negatively impact the approval process in foreign countries where we intend to seek approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system. We have not previously conducted multi-national clinical trials, and, particularly in countries where melphalan has not yet been approved, obtaining approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system may be challenging. If we are unable to obtain and maintain required approval from one or more foreign countries outside of the EEA where we would like to sell the Delcath chemosaturation system, we will be unable to market our product as intended, our international market opportunity will be limited and the value of our company and our results of operations will be harmed. If future clinical trials are unsuccessful, significantly delayed or not completed, we may not be able to market the Delcath chemosaturation system for other indications. The clinical trial data on our product is limited to specific types of liver cancer. In 2010, we concluded a Phase III clinical trial of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan in patients with metastatic ocular and cutaneous melanoma to the liver and also completed a multi-arm Phase II clinical trial of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan in patients with primary and metastatic melanoma stratified into four arms. We currently have no clinical trials on any other major forms of liver cancer. We intend to conduct clinical trials for other indications, and it may take several years to complete the testing of the Delcath chemosaturation system with melphalan, doxorubicin or other chemotherapeutic agents for use in the treatment of the indications we wish to obtain approval of, and failure can occur at any stage of development, for many reasons, including: o any pre-clinical or clinical test may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities; o pre-clinical or clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; o negative or inconclusive results from a pre-clinical study or clinical trial or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a pre-clinical study or clinical trial to be repeated or a program to be terminated, even if other studies or trials relating to the program are successful; o the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities can place a clinical hold on a trial if, among other reasons, it finds that patients enrolled in the trial are or would be exposed to an unreasonable and significant risk of illness or injury; o we may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we are developing a system or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval; o our clinical trials may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any system or result in marketable products; o the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may request additional clinical trials, including an additional Phase III trial, relating to our NDA submissions; o the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations that may negatively affect or delay our ability to bring a system to market or require additional clinical trials; and o a system may not be approved for all the requested indications. The failure or delay of clinical trials could cause an increase in the cost of product development, delay filing of an application for marketing approval or cause us to cease the development of the Delcath chemosaturation system for other indications. If we are unable to develop the Delcath chemosaturation system for other indications the future growth of our business could be negatively impacted. While we have received approval of our clinical trial protocol from the FDA under a SPA, our failure to execute the clinical trial according to the agreed upon trial protocol may result in loss of FDA approval and invalidation of our clinical trials. Prior to initiating our Phase III clinical trial, we submitted a proposal for the design, execution, and analysis under a SPA. A SPA is an evaluation by the FDA of a protocol with the goal of reaching an agreement that the Phase III trial protocol design, clinical endpoints, and statistical analyses are acceptable to support regulatory approval of the drug product candidate with respect to effectiveness for the indication studied. Under a SPA, the FDA agrees to not later alter its position with respect to adequacy of the design, execution, or analyses of the clinical trial intended to form the primary basis of an effectiveness claim in an NDA, without the sponsor’s agreement, unless the FDA identifies a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or efficacy of the drug after testing begins. Pursuant to the FDA’s guidance on SPAs, a SPA is documented in a SPA letter and/or the minutes of a Type A meeting. We conducted our Phase III trial under a SPA. The SPA may be invalidated for a number of reasons including our failure to execute the clinical trial according to the agreed upon trial protocol. While we believe our SPA is currently valid, our failure to execute the clinical trial according to the agreed upon trial procedures, or the FDA’s identification of a substantial scientific issue essential to determining the safety or efficacy of the drug after testing begins, may lead to the invalidation of the SPA, and as a result, the trial itself may not be sufficient to serve as the primary basis of an effectiveness claim. 19 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct certain of the clinical trials for the Delcath chemosaturation system, and if they do not perform their obligations to us, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals for our system. We design the clinical trials for the Delcath chemosaturation system, but we rely on academic institutions, corporate partners, contract research organizations and other third parties to assist us in managing, monitoring and otherwise carrying out these trials. We rely heavily on these parties for the execution of our clinical studies and control only certain aspects of their activities. Accordingly, we may have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. In particular, we relied on a third party to conduct monitoring of our Phase II and Phase III clinical trials and collect the data for our planned resubmission of an NDA. We intend to rely upon third parties to conduct monitoring and data collection of our future clinical trials. Although we rely on these third parties to manage the data from these clinical trials, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with GCPs for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that the data and results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. The FDA enforces these GCP regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements, and if we or the third parties upon whom we rely for our clinical trials fail to comply with the applicable GCPs, the data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA may require us to perform additional trials before approving our marketing application. We cannot assure you that, upon inspection, the FDA will determine that any of our clinical trials comply or complied with GCPs. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product that complies with the FDA’s cGMP requirements. Our failure to comply with these regulations may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process, and we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for the Delcath chemosaturation system if these requirements are not met. Purchasers of the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System in the EEA may not receive third-party reimbursement or such reimbursement may be inadequate. Without adequate reimbursement, we may not be able to successfully commercialize the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System in the EEA. We have obtained the right to affix the CE Mark for the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System , and we intend to seek third-party or government reimbursement within those countries in the EEA where we expect to market and sell the Delcath CHEMOSAT. Until we obtain government reimbursement, we will rely on private payors or local pre-approved funds where available. New technology payment programs may provide interim funding, but there are no assurances that we will qualify for such funding. Even if we do qualify, the amount and the duration of this funding may be limited. There are also no assurances that third-party payors or government health agencies of members states of the EEA will reimburse the product’s use in the long term or at all. Further, each country has its own protocols regarding reimbursement, so successfully obtaining third party or government health agency reimbursement in one country does not necessarily translate to similar reimbursement in other EEA countries. Physicians, hospitals and other health care providers may be reluctant to purchase the Delcath CHEMOSAT System if they do not receive substantial reimbursement for the cost of using our product from third-party payors or government entities. The lack of adequate reimbursement may significantly limit sales opportunities in the EEA. As the Delcath chemosaturation system is not currently approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies outside the EEA, Australia or New Zealand, third-party payors in the United States and elsewhere will not reimburse the use of our product. Even if approval is obtained, inadequate reimbursement may harm results of operations. The Delcath chemosaturation system is currently not approved by the FDA or any other regulatory body outside the EEA, Australia or New Zealand. Medicare, Medicaid, private health insurance plans and their foreign equivalents will not reimburse the Delcath chemosaturation system’s use since the product is currently not approved outside the EEA, Australia or New Zealand. We will seek reimbursement by third-party payors of the cost of the Delcath chemosaturation system after its use is approved, but there are no assurances that third-party payors in the United States or other countries will agree to cover the cost of procedures using the Delcath chemosaturation system at all or at rates that are adequate to cover the actual costs. Further, third-party payors may deny reimbursement if they determine that the Delcath chemosaturation system is not used in accordance with established payor protocols regarding cost effective treatment methods or is used outside its approved indication or for forms of cancer or with drugs not specifically approved by the FDA or other foreign regulatory bodies in the future. Without reimbursement, physicians, hospitals and other health care providers will be less likely to purchase the Delcath chemosaturation system, thereby harming our results of operations. Risks Related to Manufacturing, Commercialization and Market Acceptance of the Delcath Chemosaturation System There is only one approved third-party manufacturer of melphalan in the EEA. If this manufacturer fails to provide end-users with adequate supplies of melphalan or fails to comply with the requirements of regulatory authorities, we may be unable to successfully commercialize our product in the EEA. Under the regulatory scheme in the EEA, the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System is approved for marketing as a device only, and doctors will separately obtain melphalan for use with the Delcath CHEMOSAT system. Although melphalan has been approved in the EEA for over a decade, we are aware that there is currently only one approved manufacturer of melphalan in the EEA, with whom we have no supply arrangements or other affiliation, and therefore we will not have any control over the quality, availability, price or labeling of melphalan in that market. As a result, there may not be sufficient supply of melphalan for use with our system, and any adverse change in the sole manufacturer’s commercial operations or regulatory approval status may seriously impair our sales opportunities in the EEA. Additionally, melphalan is not available in certain foreign countries outside the EEA where we intend to market the Delcath CHEMOSAT system. If supply of melphalan remains limited or unavailable, we will be unable to commercialize our product in these markets, thereby limiting future sales opportunities. 20 Table of Contents We purchase components for the Delcath chemosaturation system from third parties, some of which are sole-source suppliers. The components of the Delcath system, including catheters, filters, introducers and chemotherapy agents, must be manufactured and assembled in accordance with approved manufacturing and predetermined performance specifications and must meet cGMP and quality systems requirements. Some states also have similar regulations. Many of the components of the Delcath chemosaturation system are manufactured by sole-source suppliers that may have proprietary manufacturing processes. If Delcath or any of our suppliers fails to meet those regulatory obligations, we may be forced to suspend or terminate our clinical trials, and, once a product is approved for marketing, the manufacture, assembly or distribution thereof. Further, if we need to find a new source of supply, we may face long interruptions in obtaining necessary components for the Delcath chemosaturation system, in obtaining FDA or foreign regulatory agency approval of these components and in establishing the manufacturing process, which could jeopardize our ability to supply the Delcath chemosaturation system to the market. All of the manufacturers of the components for the Delcath chemosaturation system must comply with a number of FDA and International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, and foreign regulatory agency requirements and regulations. If we or one of our suppliers fails to meet such requirements, we may need to change suppliers. If we are unable to successfully change suppliers, the successful completion of some of our future clinical trials and/or commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system could be jeopardized. If we cannot maintain or enter into acceptable arrangements for the production of melphalan and other chemotherapeutic agents we will be unable to successfully commercialize the Delcath system in the United States. We have entered into a manufacturing and supply agreement with Synerx Pharma, LLC, or Synerx, and Bioniche Teoranta, or Bioniche, an affiliate of Mylan, Inc., for the supply of our branded melphalan for injection. The agreement with Synerx and Bioniche currently represents our sole source of branded melphalan in the United States. We intend to pursue agreements with additional contract manufacturers to produce melphalan and other chemotherapeutic agents that we will use in the future for the commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system, as well as for labeling and finishing services. We may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. To manufacture melphalan or other chemotherapeutic agents on our own, we would first have to develop a manufacturing facility that complies with FDA requirements and regulations for the production of melphalan and each other chemotherapeutic agent we choose to manufacture for our system. Developing these resources would be an expensive and lengthy process and would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. If we are unable to obtain sufficient melphalan and labeling services on acceptable terms, if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with our current and future suppliers or if our current and future suppliers of melphalan do not comply with applicable regulations for the manufacturing and production of melphalan, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. If we cannot successfully manufacture the Delcath chemosaturation system, our ability to develop and commercialize the system would be impaired. We will manufacture the Delcath chemosaturation system for distribution in the EEA in our Queensbury, NY facility. We have a limited manufacturing history and we may not be able to manufacture the system in commercial quantities, in a cost-effective manner or in compliance with the regulatory requirements applicable to such manufacturing. Additionally, we may have difficulty obtaining components for the system from our third-party suppliers in a timely manner or at all which may adversely affect our ability to deliver the Delcath chemosaturation system to purchasers. In addition to limiting sales opportunities, delays in manufacturing the Delcath chemosaturation system may adversely affect our ability to obtain regulatory approval in other jurisdictions. Our ability to conduct timely clinical trials in the United States and abroad depends on our ability to manufacture the system, including sourcing the chemotherapeutic agents or other compounds through third parties in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. If we are unable to manufacture the Delcath chemosaturation system in a timely manner, we may not be able to conduct the clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product. If our Queensbury, NY facility fails to maintain compliance with ISO 13485, a comprehensive management system for the design and manufacture of medical devices, and FDA cGMP or fails to pass facility inspection or audits, our ability to manufacture at the facility could be limited or terminated. In the future, we may manufacture and assemble the Delcath chemosaturation system in the EEA, and any facilities in the EEA would have to obtain and maintain similar approvals or certifications of compliance. 21 Table of Contents We do not have written contracts with all of our suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath chemosaturation system. We do not have written contracts with all our suppliers for the manufacture of components for the Delcath chemosaturation system. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of the necessary components or negotiate acceptable terms, we may not be able to manufacture the system in commercial quantities or in a cost-effective manner, and commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system in the EEA may be delayed. In addition, certain components are available from only a limited number of sources. Components of the Delcath chemosaturation system are currently manufactured for us in small quantities for use in our preclinical and clinical studies. We will require significantly greater quantities to commercialize the product. We may not be able to find alternate sources of comparable components. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of components from our existing suppliers or need to switch to an alternate supplier and obtain FDA or other regulatory agency approval of that supplier, commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system may be delayed. We have limited experience in marketing and commercializing our products, and as a result, we may not be successful in commercializing the Delcath CHEMOSAT System in the EEA. We intend to pursue a two-pronged commercialization strategy in the EEA under which we will directly and indirectly market the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System. To pursue a direct marketing strategy in the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands, we intend to utilize a contract sales organization to provide MSLs to educate the medical oncologists, and we intend to utilize a direct sales force to sell our product to interventional radiologists and hospitals. In France, Italy and Spain, where we intend to pursue an indirect marketing strategy, we will enter into agreements with third-party distributors. However, we have not previously sold, marketed or distributed any products and have limited experience in building a sales and marketing organization and in entering into and managing relationships with third-party distributors. Even though we have obtained the right to affix the CE Mark, we currently have limited sales, marketing, commercial or distribution capabilities in any countries in the EEA. In order to pursue our strategy to commercialize the Delcath CHEMOSAT system in the EEA, we must acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure and/or enter into strategic alliances to perform these services. The development of sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure is difficult, time consuming and requires substantial financial and other resources. If we cannot successfully develop the infrastructure to market and commercialize the Delcath CHEMOSAT system, our ability to generate revenues in the EEA may be harmed, and we may be required to enter into strategic alliances to have such activities carried out on our behalf, which may not be on favorable terms. Competition for sales and marketing personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Our inability to attract and retain skilled sales and marketing personnel or to reach an agreement with a third party could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, since our marketing strategy in the EEA includes establishing a network of third-party distributors, we must enter into collaborative arrangements with these third-party distributors. We may not be able to enter into such arrangements on reasonable terms or at all. Even if we receive FDA or other foreign regulatory approvals, we may be unsuccessful in commercializing the Delcath chemosaturation system in markets outside the EEA, because of inadequate infrastructure or an ineffective commercialization strategy. Outside the EEA, even if we obtain regulatory approval from the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies, our ability to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system may be limited due to our inexperience in developing a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure. In the United States, we intend to develop and train our own sales force to market our products, and in foreign countries other than in the EEA, we intend to market our products primarily through strategic partners and distributors. If we are unable to develop this infrastructure in the United States or to collaborate with an alliance partner to market our products in foreign countries, particularly in Asia, our efforts to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system or any other product outside of the EEA may be less successful. Even if we are successful in commercializing the Delcath chemosaturation system in the EEA, we may not be successful in the United States and other foreign countries. Each country requires a different commercialization strategy, so our EEA strategy may not translate to other markets. Without a successful commercialization strategy tailored for each market, our efforts to promote and market the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System in each of our target markets may fail in any or all of those markets. Our plan to use collaborative arrangements with third parties to help finance and to market and sell the Delcath chemosaturation system may not be successful. We have entered into a collaborative agreement with Chi Fu Trading Company for the country of Taiwan and intend to enter into one or more strategic alliances to further address markets outside the United States, particularly in Asia, and to help fund the development of additional indications or for use with additional chemotherapy agents within the United States. We may be unable to enter into collaborative agreements without additional clinical data or unable to continue a collaborative agreement as a result of unsuccessful future clinical trials. Additionally, we may face competition in our search for alliances. As a result, we may not be able to enter into any additional alliances on acceptable terms, if at all. 22 Table of Contents Our collaborative relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of the Delcath chemosaturation system or any other product. The success of any collaboration will depend upon our ability to perform our obligations under any agreements as well as factors beyond our control, such as the commitment of our collaborators and the timely performance of their obligations. The terms of any such collaboration may permit our collaborators to abandon the alliance at any time for any reason or prevent us from terminating arrangements with collaborators who do not perform in accordance with our expectations or our collaborators may breach their agreements with us. In addition, any third parties with which we collaborate may have significant control over important aspects of the development and commercialization of our products, including research and development, market identification, marketing methods, pricing, composition of sales force and promotional activities. We are not able to control or influence the amount and timing of resources that any collaborator may devote to our research and development programs or the commercialization, marketing or distribution of our products. We may not be able to prevent any collaborators from pursuing alternative technologies or products that could result in the development of products that compete with the Delcath chemosaturation system or the withdrawal of their support for our products. The failure of any such collaboration could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to overcome the challenges inherent in international operations, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Currently we have only received authorization to market the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System in the EEA, Australia and New Zealand, and intend to seek similar authorization or approvals in other foreign countries. As a result, we expect international sales of our products to account for a significant portion of our revenue, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. To accommodate our international sales, we will need to further invest financial and management resources to develop an international infrastructure that will meet the needs of our customers. Accordingly, we will face additional risks resulting from our international operations including: o difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in a timely manner through the legal systems of many countries outside the United States; o the failure to fulfill foreign regulatory requirements to market our products on a timely basis or at all; o availability of, and changes in, reimbursement within prevailing foreign healthcare payment systems; o difficulties in managing foreign relationships and operations, including any relationships that we establish with foreign sales or marketing employees and agents; o limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; o fluctuations in currency exchange rates; o the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; o the possibility of any material shipping delays; o significant changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region; o protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; and o trade restrictions, including the imposition of, or significant changes to, the level of tariffs, customs duties and export quotas. If we fail to overcome the challenges we encounter in our international operations, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The Delcath CHEMOSAT System has been used a limited number of times in a clinical setting in the EEA, so market acceptance of our product will depend on EEA healthcare professionals’ efforts to learn about our product. Since all of our prior clinical studies were conducted in the United States and the Delcath CHEMOSAT system has had limited use in a clinical setting in the EEA, physicians in the EEA have no clinical experience with our product. As a result, the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System may not gain significant market acceptance among physicians, hospitals, patients and healthcare payors in the EEA until healthcare professionals are properly educated about the procedure. Market acceptance of the CHEMOSAT system in the EEA will depend upon a variety of factors including: o whether our future clinical trials demonstrate significantly improved patient outcomes; o our ability to educate and train physicians to perform the procedure and drive acceptance of the use of the CHEMOSAT system; o our ability to convince healthcare payors that use of the CHEMOSAT system results in reduced treatment costs and improved outcomes for patients; 23 Table of Contents o whether the CHEMOSAT system replaces and/or complements treatment methods in which many hospitals have made a significant investment; and o whether doctors and hospitals are willing to replace their existing technology with a new medical technology until the new technology’s value has been demonstrated. We intend to establish clinical training and centers of excellence to educate and train physicians and healthcare payors in the EEA, but the key opinion thought leadership required for initial market acceptance within the healthcare arena may take time to develop. Without effort from healthcare professionals to become educated about our product, the market may not accept the CHEMOSAT system and our efforts to commercialize the CHEMOSAT system in the EEA may be unsuccessful. Similar considerations apply in any other market where we receive approval. Successful commercialization of the CHEMOSAT system in these markets will depend on market acceptance by healthcare professionals. Rapid technological developments in treatment methods for liver cancer and competition with other forms of liver cancer treatments could affect our ability to achieve meaningful revenues or profit. Competition in the cancer treatment industry is intense. The Delcath chemosaturation system competes with all forms of liver cancer treatments that are alternatives to the “gold standard” treatment of surgical resection. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources and considerable experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals. If these competitors develop more effective or more affordable products or treatment methods, or achieve earlier product development, our revenues or profitability will be substantially reduced. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. The loss of a member of our senior executive staff could delay our obtaining FDA approval, our introducing the Delcath chemosaturation system commercially and our generating revenues and profits. Competition for experienced personnel is intense. If we cannot retain our current personnel or attract additional experienced personnel, our ability to compete could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Patents, Trade Secrets and Proprietary Rights Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties and commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system prior to the expiration of our patent protection. Our patent portfolio consists of seven U.S. patents, one pending Patent Cooperation Treaty application, 22 issued foreign counterpart patents and four pending foreign counterpart patent applications. Certain of our U.S., European and other foreign patents have already expired and other U.S. patents relating to the Delcath chemosaturation system will expire beginning in 2012 through 2016. Due to the uncertainty of the patent prosecution process, there are no guarantees that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. Even if we are successful in obtaining a patent, there is no assurance that it will be upheld if later challenged or will provide significant protection or commercial advantage. Because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new medical drugs and devices to the market, the healthcare industry has traditionally placed considerable emphasis on patent and trade secret protection for significant new technologies. Other parties may challenge patents, patent claims or patent applications licensed or issued to us or may design around technologies we have patented, licensed or developed. Companies in the medical drug/device industry may use intellectual property infringement litigation to gain a competitive advantage. In the United States, patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not publicly available until the patent issues. As a result, avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce any patents issued or assigned to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation could be costly and could divert our attention from our business. There are no guarantees that we will receive a favorable outcome in any such litigation. If a third party claims that we infringed its patents, any of the following may occur: o we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent; o a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents; and o we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds or time. If others file patent applications with respect to inventions for which we already have patents issued to us or have patent applications pending, we may be forced to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could also be costly and could divert our attention from our business. If a third party violates our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to enforce our rights because of our limited resources. Use of our limited funds to enforce or to defend our intellectual property rights or to defend against legal proceedings alleging infringement of third party proprietary rights may also affect our financial condition adversely. 24 Table of Contents Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before the Delcath chemosaturation system or any other product can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. Not all of our U.S. patent rights have corresponding patent rights effective in Europe or other foreign jurisdictions. Similar considerations apply in any other country where we are prosecuting patent applications, have been issued patents, or have decided not to pursue patent protection relating to our technology. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do laws of the United States. Since we rely solely on trade secret protection in the EEA, our inability to maintain this trade secret protection will significantly limit our ability to commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system in the EEA. We presently only have valid issued patents for the current version of the Delcath chemosaturation system in the United States. Without patent protection in the EEA, the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System will only be covered by trade secret protection. Unlike patents, trade secrets are only recognized under applicable law if they are kept secret by restricting their disclosure to third parties. We protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. However, certain consultants and third parties with whom we have business relationships, and to whom in some cases we have disclosed trade secrets and other proprietary knowledge, may also provide services to other parties in the medical device industry, including companies, universities and research organizations that are developing competing products. In addition, some of our former employees who were exposed to certain of our trade secrets and other proprietary knowledge in the course of their employment may seek employment with, and become employed by, our competitors. We cannot be assured that consultants, employees and other third parties with whom we have entered into confidentiality agreements will not breach the terms of such agreements by improperly using or disclosing our trade secrets or other proprietary knowledge or that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach. Trade secret protection does not prevent independent discovery of the technology or proprietary information or use of the same. Competitors may independently duplicate or exceed our technology in whole or in part. If we are not successful in maintaining the confidentiality of our technology, the loss of trade secret protection or know-how relating to the Delcath chemosaturation system will significantly impair our ability to commercialize the Delcath Hepatic CHEMOSAT Delivery System in the EEA, and our value and results of operations will be harmed. Similar considerations apply in any other foreign country where we receive approval. Since we do not have valid issued patents for the current version of the Delcath chemosaturation system in these countries, our ability to successfully commercialize the Delcath chemosaturation system will depend on our ability to maintain trade secret protection in these markets. Risks Related to Products Liability We may be the subject of product liability claims or product recalls, and we may be unable to maintain insurance adequate to cover potential liabilities. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that may arise from the testing, manufacture, marketing, sale and use of the Delcath chemosaturation system. In addition, because the Delcath chemosaturation system is intended for use in patients with cancer, there is an increased risk of death among the patients treated with our system which may increase the risk of product liability lawsuits. We may be subject to claims against us even if the injury is due to the actions of others. For example, if the medical personnel that use our system on patients are not properly trained or are negligent in the use of our system, the patient may be injured through the use of our system, which may subject us to claims. Were such a claim asserted we would likely incur substantial legal and related expenses even if we prevail on the merits. Claims for damages, whether or not successful, could cause delays in clinical trials and result in the loss of physician endorsement, adverse publicity and/or limit our ability to market and sell the system, resulting in loss of revenue. In addition, it may be necessary for us to recall products that do not meet approved specifications, which would also result in adverse publicity, as well as resulting in costs connected to the recall and loss of revenue. A successful products liability claim or product recall would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently carry product liability and clinical trial insurance coverage, but it may be insufficient to cover one or more large claims. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in unpredictable pricing of our equity securities. The equity markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: o results of our clinical trials; o regulatory delays, non-acceptance or non-approval of our product; o manufacturing difficulties; o unexpected adverse events caused by the Delcath chemosaturation system; o product recalls; o actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; o changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; o announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; o a challenge to one of our patents, either in court or via administrative proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office; o conditions generally affecting the healthcare and cancer treatment industries; o the success of our operating strategy; o our ability to repay our debt; o future sales of equity or equity-related securities; and o general financial, economic, domestic, international and other market conditions. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential impact on the price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Our insiders beneficially own a significant portion of our stock. As of December 31, 2011, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons beneficially owned approximately 6.5% of our common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors and affiliated persons will have significant influence to: o elect or defeat the election of our directors; o amend or prevent amendment of our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; o effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and o affect the outcome of any other matter submitted to the stockholders for vote. Sales of significant amounts of shares held by our directors and executive officers, or the prospect of these sales, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our warrants contain anti-dilution provisions that, if triggered, could cause dilution to our existing stockholders. The warrants issued in our September 2007 and June 2009 private placements contain anti-dilution provisions. The September 2007 warrants are subject to “full ratchet” protection upon certain equity issuances below $3.44 per share (as may be further adjusted). The June 2009 warrants are subject to an exercise price adjustment upon certain equity issuances below $3.60 per share (as may be further adjusted). In addition to the potential dilutive effect of these provisions, there is the potential that a large number of the shares may be sold in the public market at any given time, which could place additional downward pressure on the trading price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws may reduce the likelihood of a potential change of control, or make it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of our stockholders rights agreement could have the effect of making it more difficult for our stockholders to replace management at a time when a substantial number of our stockholders might favor a change in management. These provisions include: o providing for a staggered board; and o authorizing the board of directors to fill vacant directorships or increase the size of our board of directors. Furthermore, our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to determine the rights and preferences of the shares of any such series without stockholder approval. Any series of preferred stock is likely to be senior to the common stock with respect to dividends, liquidation rights and, possibly, voting rights. Our board’s ability to issue preferred stock may have the effect of discouraging unsolicited acquisition proposals, thus adversely affecting the market price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents We also have a stockholder rights agreement that could have the effect of substantially increasing the cost of acquiring us unless our board of directors supports the transaction even if the holders of a majority of our common stock are in favor of the transaction. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. If we fail to meet the requirements of The NASDAQ Capital Market for continued listing, our common stock could be delisted. To keep such listing, we are required to maintain: (i) a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, (ii) a certain public float, (iii) a certain number of round lot shareholders and (iv) one of the following: a net income from continuing operations (in the latest fiscal year or two of the three last fiscal years) of at least $500,000, a market value of listed securities of at least $35 million or a stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million. We are presently in compliance with these requirements. We are also required to maintain certain corporate governance requirements. In the event that in the future we are notified that we no longer comply with NASDAQ’s corporate governance requirements, and we fail to regain compliance within the applicable cure period, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may be subject to the risks relating to penny stocks. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price of the common stock were below $5.00 per share on the date the common stock were delisted, trading in our common stock would also be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Exchange Act. These rules require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a “penny stock” and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors, generally institutions. These additional requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in securities that are classified as penny stocks, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of such securities and the ability of purchasers to sell such securities in the secondary market. A penny stock is defined generally as any non-exchange listed equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. We have never declared or paid any dividends to the holders of our common stock and we do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all earnings for use in connection with the expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Our board of directors will have the sole discretion in determining whether to declare and pay dividends in the future. The declaration of dividends will depend on our profitability, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Our ability to pay cash dividends in the future could be limited or prohibited by the terms of financing agreements that we may enter into or by the terms of any preferred stock that we may authorize and issue. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, holders of our common stock must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions or otherwise will dilute all other stockholdings. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock, or from issuing securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of 21,762,370 shares of common stock authorized but unissued. Subject to certain volume limitations imposed by The NASDAQ Capital Market, we may issue all of these shares without any action or approval by our shareholders. We have established an "at the market" equity offering program, and we may issue shares under this program without any action or approval by our shareholders. We may expand our business through complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies and assets, and we may issue shares of common stock in connection with those acquisitions or otherwise. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of our issuance of a large number of shares of common stock, particularly if the per share consideration we receive for the stock we issue is less than the per share book value of our common stock or if we are not expected to be able to generate earnings with the proceeds of the issuance that are as great as the earnings per share we are generating before we issue the additional shares. In addition, any shares issued in connection with these activities, the exercise of stock options or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by our investors. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 