Item 1A. Risk Factors Related to Our Business Because of our dependence on certain customers, the loss of, or a substantial decline in sales to, a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. During 2006, we derived 66.7% of our revenues from five customers. These five customers were Nokia, Nortel, Comverse, Philips Medical Systems and Avaya. During 2006, revenues attributable to Nokia and Nortel were 39.4% and 10.3%, respectively. A financial hardship experienced by, or a substantial decrease in sales to any one of our top customers could materially affect revenues and profitability. Generally, these customers are not the end-users of our products. If any of these customers’ efforts to market the end products we design and manufacture for them or the end products into which our products are incorporated are unsuccessful in the marketplace our design wins, sales and/or profitability will be significantly reduced. Furthermore, if these customers experience adverse economic conditions in the markets into which they sell our products (end markets), we would expect a significant reduction in spending by these customers. Some of the end markets that these customers sell our products into are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change and economic uncertainty. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in demand from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. We are shifting our business from predominately perfect fit (custom) solutions to more standards-based products, such as ATCA, COM Express and Media Servers. This requires substantial expenditures for R&D that could adversely affect our short-term earnings and, if this strategy is not successful could have a material adverse effect on our long-term revenues, profitability and financial condition. We are shifting our business from predominately perfect fit solutions to more standards-based solutions, such as ATCA, COM Express and Media Server products. There can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful. This strategy requires us to make substantial expenditures for R&D in new technologies that we reflect as a current expense in our financial statements. We believe that these investments in standards-based products and new technologies will allow us to provide a broader set of products and building blocks to take to market and position us to grow on a long-term basis. Most of these investments are not expected to result in significant revenues for at least twelve to twenty-four months. Accordingly, these expenditures could adversely 10 Table of Contents affect our short-term earnings. In addition, there is no assurance that these new products and technologies will be accepted by our customers and, if accepted, how large the market will be for these products or what the timing will be for any meaningful revenues. If we are unable to successfully develop and sell standards-based products to our customers, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if we successfully develop standards-based products we may incur incremental R&D expenses as we tailor the standards-based products for our customers. Furthermore, we are building standards-based products to meet industry standards that define the basis of compatibility in operation and communication of a system supported by different vendors. Those standards constantly change and new competing standards emerge. The development or adaptation of products and technologies require us to commit financial resources, personnel and time significantly in advance of sales. In order to compete, our decisions with respect to those commitments must accurately anticipate, sometimes two years or more in advance, both future demand and the technologies that will win market acceptance to meet that demand. Our projections of future revenues and earnings are highly subjective and may not reflect future results which could cause volatility in the price of our common stock. Most of our major customers have contracts but these contracts do not commit them to purchase a minimum amount of our products. These contracts generally require our customers to provide us with forecasts of their anticipated purchases. However, our experience indicates that customers can change their purchasing patterns quickly in response to market demands and therefore these forecasts may not be relied upon to accurately forecast sales. From time to time we provide projections to our shareholders and the investment community of our future sales and earnings. Since we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order cycle is short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our sales and related earnings in any given period. Our projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data, information from customers and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their customers and the relevant markets. Our period to period revenues have varied in the past and may continue to vary in the future. In addition and as stated above, we have a high degree of customer concentration. Any significant change in purchases by any one of our largest customers can significantly affect our sales and profitability. If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: • changes in customer product needs; • changes in the level of customers’ inventory; • changes in business and economic conditions, including a downturn in the semiconductor industry; and • market acceptance of our products. We have recently experienced significant changes in purchases by one of our large customers which adversely impacted the fiscal period in which it occurred. If our actual sales or earnings are less than the projected amounts, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected and accordingly our shareholders should not place undue reliance on these projections. In addition, the price of our common stock may be adversely affected due to other factors, such as changes in analysts’ estimates regarding earnings, or may be due to factors relating to the commercial systems and communication networking markets in general. Shareholders should be willing to incur the risk of such fluctuations. 11 Table of Contents Not all new design wins ramp into production, and if ramped into production the volumes derived from such projects may not be as significant as we had originally estimated, which could have a substantial negative impact on our anticipated revenues and profitability. From time to time we estimate the revenue from design wins, which represents three years of revenue once product development has ramped into production. If a design win actually ramps into production, the average ramp into production begins about 12 to 18 months after the initial design win, although some more complex projects can take up to 24 months or longer. After that, there is an additional time lag from the start of production ramp to peak revenue. Not all design wins ramp into production and even if a design win ramped into production, the volumes derived from such projects may be less than we had originally estimated. Design wins are sometimes canceled or delayed, or can perform below original expectations, which can adversely impact anticipated revenues and profitability. Our business depends on the communications networking and commercial systems markets in which demand can be cyclical, and any inability to sell products to these markets or forecast customer demand could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin. We derive our revenues from a number of diverse end markets, some of which are subject to significant cyclical changes in demand. In 2006, we derived 74.4% and 25.6% of our revenues from the communications networking and commercial systems markets, respectively. We believe that our revenues will continue to be derived primarily from these two markets. Communications networking revenues include, but are not limited to, sales to Airvana, Aspect Medical Systems, Avaya, Comverse, Hewlett Packard, Huawei Technologies Co., IBM, Intel Corporation, Intercall, a division of West Corporation, Lucent, NexTone Communications, Nokia, Nortel and Siemens AG. Commercial systems revenues include, but are not limited to, sales to Agilent Technologies, Arrow Electronics, Fluke Electronics, Philips Medical Systems, Tektronix and Universal Instruments. Generally, our customers are not the end-users of our products. If our customers experience adverse economic conditions in the markets into which they sell our products (end markets), we would expect a significant reduction in spending by our customers. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change and economic uncertainty. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in customer demand in these end markets could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. Significant reduction in our customers’ spending, such as what we experienced in 2001 and 2002, will result in decreased revenues and earnings. We continue to execute on our strategy of expanding into new end markets either through new product development projects with our existing customers or through new customer relationships, but no assurance can be given that this strategy will be successful. We forecast manufacturing needs based on our customer demand mentioned above. Changes in this demand could cause us or our contract manufacturers to hold excess or obsolete inventory that may not be salable to other customers on commercially reasonable terms, and which could require inventory valuation write downs that reduce our gross margin and profitability. This risk is exacerbated by a current trend from our customers of requiring shorter lead times between placing orders with us and the shipment date. That typically necessitates an increase in our inventory or inventory of our products at our contract manufacturers’ locations, raising the likelihood that upon cancellation or deferral, we may be holding greater amounts of inventory and/or incurring additional costs. Additionally, we are contractually obligated to reimburse our contract manufacturers for the cost of excess inventory used in the manufacture of our products for which there is no forecasted or alternative use. Unexpected decreases in customer demand or our inability to accurately forecast customer demand could result in increases in our adverse purchase commitment liability and have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. 12 Table of Contents Because of our dependence and our contract manufacturers’ dependence on a few suppliers, or in some cases one supplier, for some of the components we use, as well as our dependence on a few contract manufacturers to supply a majority of our products, a loss of a supplier, a decline in the quality of these components, a shortage of any of these components, or a loss or degradation in performance of a contract manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our business or our profitability. We depend on a few suppliers, or in some cases one supplier, for a continuing supply of the components we use in the manufacture of our products and any disruption in supply could adversely impact our financial performance. For example, we currently solely rely on Intel for the supply of some microprocessors and other components. Alternative sources of components that are procured from one supplier or a limited number of suppliers would be difficult to locate and/or it would require a significant amount of time and resources to establish. We also rely on contract manufacturers for the supply of approximately 80% of all of our unit volume. If these third party manufacturers fail to adequately perform our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Among other things, inadequate performance from our contract manufacturers could include the production of products that do not meet our high quality standards or schedule and delivery requirements and could cause us to invest in additional internal resources as we lose productivity on other important projects. In addition, alternative internal or external sources of manufacturing for RadiSys products could require significant time and resources to establish or transition. We have experienced less than optimal service from one of our contract manufacturers in North America. As a result, we have discontinued our relationship with this contract manufacturer and are currently transitioning the majority of this production to our Hillsboro facility. However, we may incur additional and unanticipated expenses or delays which may have a material adverse effect on our business or our financial performance. Also, due to the inherent risks associated with the transfer of production we may incur additional expenses related to adverse purchase commitments or excess and obsolete inventory. The failure to successfully integrate Convedia’s business into our operations in the expected time frame, or at all, may adversely affect our future results. We believe that the acquisition of Convedia, completed in September 2006 will result in certain benefits, including expanded global reach and increased product offerings. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, Convedia’s business must be successfully integrated into RadiSys’ operations by focusing on general and administrative, manufacturing and marketing and sales cooperation. The success of the Convedia acquisition will depend on our ability to realize these anticipated benefits from integrating Convedia’s business into our operations. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Convedia acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: • failure to effectively coordinate sales and marketing efforts to communicate the capabilities of the Company; • potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting or other critical systems; and • the loss of key employees. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may not be able to successfully develop and market these new products; the products we invest in and develop may not be 13 Table of Contents well received by customers; and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect the demand for our products. These types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our profitability and financial condition, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize and record impairments of our assets. Competition in the market for embedded systems is intense, and if we lose our market share, our revenues and profitability could decline. We compete with a number of companies providing embedded systems, including Advantech Co., AudioCodes, Embedded Communications Computing, a division of Motorola, a division within Emerson, a division within General Electric Company, Hewlett Packard, divisions within both Intel Corporation and IBM, Interphase, IP Unity, Kontron AG, Mercury Computer Systems and Sun Microsystems. Because the embedded systems market is growing, it is attracting new non-traditional competitors. These non-traditional competitors include contract-manufacturers that provide design services and Asian-based original design manufacturers. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have a number of significant advantages over us, including: • a longer operating history; • greater name recognition and marketing power; • preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customers; and • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements. Furthermore, existing or potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. As a result of increased competition, we could encounter significant pricing pressures. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in the number of customers, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, many of the industries we serve, such as the communications industry, are encountering market consolidation, or are likely to encounter consolidation in the near future, which could result in increased pricing pressure and additional competition thus weakening our position or causing delays in new design wins and their associated production. Potential acquisitions and partnerships may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated and may adversely affect the price of our company stock. Future acquisitions and partnerships may involve the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities, issuance of debt and amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives. We may also be required to charge against earnings upon consummation of the acquisition the value of an acquired business’ technology that does not meet the accounting definition of “completed technology.” Moreover, to the extent that any proposed acquisition or strategic investment is not favorably received by shareholders, analysts and others in the investment community, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions or strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • performance below expectations by an acquired business. 14 Table of Contents In the event that an acquisition or a partnership does occur and we are unable to successfully integrate operations, technologies, products or personnel that we acquire, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may expend additional resources without receiving benefit from strategic alliances with third parties. Our international operations expose us to additional political, economic and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. In 2006, as measured by delivery destination, we derived 4.0% of our revenues from Canada and Mexico, 48.1% of our revenues from EMEA and 17.3% from Asia Pacific. In 2004 we opened a development center in Shanghai, China and began to utilize a contract manufacturer in Shenzhen, China. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 52% of our total revenues were associated with products produced at our China contract manufacturer. Also during 2006 we completed the acquisition of Convedia which includes significant operations in Vancouver, British Columbia. As a result of all these activities, we are subject to worldwide economic and market condition risks generally associated with global trade, such as fluctuating exchange rates, tariff and trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest, wars and other acts of terrorism and changes in other economic conditions. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. Additionally, some of our sales to overseas customers are made under export licenses that must be obtained from the United States Department of Commerce. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States of America or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws, trade restrictions resulting from war or terrorism, or other trade policies could adversely affect our ability to sell or to manufacture in international markets. Furthermore, revenues from outside the United States of America are subject to inherent risks, including the general economic and political conditions in each country. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. If we are unable to generate sufficient income in the future, we may not be able to fully utilize our net deferred tax assets or support our current levels of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. We cannot provide absolute assurance that we will generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize the net deferred tax assets of $30.3 million as of December 31, 2006. We may not generate sufficient taxable income due to earning lower than forecasted net income or incurring charges associated with unusual events, such as restructurings and acquisitions. Accordingly, we may record a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets if our expectations of future taxable income are not achieved. On the other hand, if we generate taxable income in excess of our expectations, the valuation allowance may be reduced accordingly. We also cannot provide absolute assurance that future income will support the carrying amount of goodwill and intangibles of $110.1 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006, and therefore, we may incur an impairment charge in the future. Our products for embedded solutions are based on industry standards, which are continually evolving, and any failure to conform to these standards or lack of success of these standards could have a substantial negative impact on our revenues and profitability. In addition, these standards could take longer to be deployed or may not be deployed at all. We develop and supply a mix of perfect fit and standards-based products. Standards-based products for embedded computing applications are often based on industry standards, which are continually evolving. Our future success in these products will depend, in part, upon our capacity to invest in, and successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards. Our inability to invest in or conform to these standards could render parts of our product portfolio uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. As new standards are developed for our addressable markets standards, we may be unable to successfully invest in, design and manufacture new products that address the needs of our customers or achieve substantial market acceptance. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to incur costly litigation to protect our rights. We are a technology dependent company, and our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. At the same time, our products are complex, and are often not patentable in their entirety. We also license intellectual property from third parties and rely on those parties to maintain and protect their technology. We cannot be certain that our actions will protect proprietary rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, or if we are unable to continue to obtain or maintain licenses for protected technology from third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, some of our products are now designed, manufactured and sold outside of the United States of America. Despite our precautions to protect our intellectual property, this international exposure may reduce or limit protection of our intellectual property which is more prone to design piracy. Changes in stock-based compensation accounting rules have adversely impacted our operating results and may adversely impact our stock price. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”). SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized as expense in the financial statements based on their fair values and does not allow the pro forma disclosure previously used as an alternative to financial statement recognition. We were required to adopt SFAS 123R in the first quarter of 2006. Under SFAS 123R, we applied the Black-Scholes valuation model in determining the fair value of share-based payments, with adjustments to the methodology as necessary for reporting under SFAS 123R guidelines. As a result, our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2006 contain, and our operating results for future periods will contain, a charge for share-based compensation related to stock options and shares pursuant to the 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), in addition to the share-based compensation associated with our restricted share awards and restricted stock units (“restricted stock”). SFAS 123R had a significant impact on our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2006, with SFAS 123R charges of $6.6 million increasing operating losses to $22.2 million, and we expect the adoption of SFAS 123R will continue to have a significant adverse impact on our operating results in the future. We anticipate that stock-based compensation will increase by $3.4 million to approximately $10 million in 2007 due primarily to the 2004 acceleration of employee stock options with an option price greater than $15.99. As a result of the acceleration, we reduced the amount of stock based compensation expense recognized in 2006; however, in 2007 stock based compensation expense will increase as the benefit from the acceleration will have been fully utilized. The increase is also due to the acquisition of Convedia. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. Decreased effectiveness of share-based payment awards could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to retain employees and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. In accordance with SFAS 123R, we began recording charges to earnings for stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. As a result, we will incur increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs making it more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees in the future. Like other companies, we have reviewed our equity compensation strategy in light of the current regulatory and competitive environment and have decided to reduce the total number of options granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. Due to this change in our stock-based compensation strategy, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. 16 Table of Contents We depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. Due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if incentive programs we offer are not considered desirable by current and prospective employees, we could have difficulty retaining or recruiting qualified personnel. If we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, our product development, and marketing and sales could be harmed. Our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting do not guarantee the absence of error or fraud. Disclosure controls are procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this Annual Report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls are also designed to ensure that the information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Internal control over financial reporting (“internal controls”) are procedures which are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of RadiSys; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of RadiSys are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of RadiSys; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of RadiSys’ assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. To the extent that components of our Internal Controls are included in our disclosure controls, they are included in the scope of our quarterly controls evaluation. Our management, including the CEO and CFO, do not expect that our disclosure controls or internal controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 17 Table of Contents Oregon corporate law, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us even if the change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without prior shareholder approval to increase the number of outstanding shares and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; and • limit the ability of shareholders to take action by written consent, thereby effectively requiring all common shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our common shareholders. In addition, if our common stock is acquired in specified transactions deemed to constitute “control share acquisitions,” provisions of Oregon law condition the voting rights that would otherwise be associated with those common shares upon approval by our shareholders (excluding, among other things, the acquirer in any such transaction). Provisions of Oregon law also restrict, subject to specified exceptions, the ability of a person owning 15% or more of our common stock to enter into any “business combination transaction” with us. The foregoing provisions of Oregon law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Other Risk Factors Related to Our Business Other risk factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the mix of products sold, regulatory and tax legislation, changes in effective tax rates, inventory risks due to changes in market demand or our business strategies, potential litigation and claims arising in the normal course of business, credit risk of customers and other risk factors. Additionally, proposed changes to accounting rules could materially affect what we report under generally accepted accounting principles and adversely affect our operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 