Risk Factors Because of our dependence on certain customers, the loss of, or a substantial decline in sales to, a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. For 2007 and 2006, we derived 66.0% and 66.7%, respectively, of our revenues from our five largest customers during these periods. These five customers were Nokia Siemens Networks, Nortel, Comverse, Philips Healthcare and Avaya. During 2007, revenues attributable to Nokia Siemens Networks were 43.8%. During 2006, revenues attributable to Nokia Siemens Networks (including the revenues of Nokia and Siemens Networks 9 Table of Contents prior to their business combination) and Nortel were 40.9% and 10.3%, respectively. Because of our significant customer concentration, our largest customers have additional pricing power over us. Further, a financial hardship experienced by, or a substantial decrease in sales to, any one of our top customers could materially affect our revenues and profitability. Generally, these customers are not the end-users of our products. If any of these customers’ efforts to market the products we design and manufacture for them or the end products into which our products are incorporated are unsuccessful in the marketplace, our design wins, sales and/or profitability will be significantly reduced. Furthermore, if these customers experience adverse economic conditions in the end markets into which they sell our products, we would expect a significant reduction in spending by these customers. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change and economic uncertainty. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in demand from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. We are shifting our business from predominately perfect fit (custom) solutions to more standards-based products, such as ATCA, COM Express and IP Media Servers. This requires substantial expenditures for R&D that could adversely affect our short-term earnings and, if this strategy is not successful, could have a material adverse effect on our long-term revenues, profitability and financial condition. We are shifting our business from predominately perfect fit solutions, or custom, to more standards-based solutions, such as ATCA, Computer on Module Express and IP Media Server products. We believe that over the next several years customers will increasingly design their embedded computing platforms around standards-based architectures and increasingly source embedded solutions from third-party suppliers, such as RadiSys. However, there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful. This strategy requires us to make substantial expenditures for R&D in new technologies, which we reflect as a current expense in our financial statements. Most of these investments are not expected to result in significant revenues for at least 12 to 24 months. Accordingly, these expenditures could adversely affect our short-term earnings. In addition, there is no assurance that these new products and technologies will be accepted by our customers and, if accepted, how large the market will be for these products or what the timing will be for any meaningful revenues. Customers may not choose to use standards-based products to the extent that we are projecting or in the timeframe that we are projecting, and if customers instead continue to use perfect fit architectures when designing their systems, we may not be well positioned to receive orders for such projects, or if we do receive such orders, they may not be profitable given our operational focus on standards-based solutions. If we are unable to successfully develop and sell standards-based products to our customers, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if we successfully develop standards-based products we may incur incremental R&D expenses as we tailor the standards-based products for our customers. Furthermore, we are building standards-based products to meet industry standards that define the basis of compatibility in operation and communication of a system supported by different vendors. Those standards constantly change and new competing standards emerge. The development or adaptation of products and technologies requires us to commit financial resources, personnel and time significantly in advance of sales. In order to compete, our decisions with respect to those commitments must accurately anticipate, sometimes two years or more in advance, both future demand and the technologies that will win market acceptance to meet that demand. Our projections of future revenues and earnings are highly subjective and may not reflect future results which could cause volatility in the price of our common stock. We have contracts with most of our major customers but these contracts do not commit them to purchase a minimum amount of our products. These contracts generally require our customers to provide us with forecasts of their anticipated purchases. However, our experience indicates that customers can change their purchasing patterns quickly in response to market demands, changes in their management or strategy or other factors and therefore these forecasts may not be relied upon to accurately forecast sales. From time to time we provide projections to our shareholders and the investment community of our future sales and earnings. Since we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order cycle is short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our sales and related earnings in any given period. Our 10 Table of Contents projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data, information from customers and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their customers and the relevant markets. Our period to period revenues have varied in the past and may continue to vary in the future. Unanticipated reductions in purchase orders from our customers may also result in our having to write off excess or obsolete inventory. In addition and as stated above, we have a high degree of customer concentration. Any significant change in purchases by any one of our large customers can significantly affect our sales and profitability. If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: • changes in customer product needs; • changes in the level of customers’ inventory; • changes in business and economic conditions; • changes in the mix of products we sell; and • market acceptance of our products. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced unanticipated, significant reductions in anticipated purchases by Nokia, which adversely impacted our results of operations for the quarters in which it occurred. While it is difficult to forecast customer demand, we anticipate that we will experience a decline in purchases by Nokia Siemens Networks in the first quarter of 2008. In addition, our gross margin is impacted by the mix of revenue among our products. Revenues and profitability of our product lines have historically varied. Overall profitability in any given period is dependent partially on the product, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period’s net revenue, and therefore revenue and gross margin can fluctuate significantly. Also, we believe that our gross margin may increase to the extent our revenue from standards-based products and IP media servers increases. However, our overall gross margin may not grow as quickly as we are expecting, or at all. The price of our common stock and may be adversely affected due to other factors, such as changes in analysts’ estimates regarding earnings, or may be due to factors relating to the commercial systems and communication networking markets in general. We cannot accurately forecast all of the above factors. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons may not be indicative of future operating results. Our operating results in a future quarter or quarters may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. Our failure to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could harm our ability to attract and retain customers. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater speed and functionality. Therefore, we must continually design, develop and introduce new products with improved features to be competitive. To introduce these products on a timely basis we must: • design innovative and performance-improving features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets, including new standards for our products; • accurately define and design new products to meet market needs; • anticipate changes in end-user preferences with respect to our customers’ products; • rapidly develop and produce these products at competitive prices; 11 Table of Contents • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and • provide effective technical and post-sales support for these new products as they are deployed. Not all new design wins ramp into production, and even if ramped into production, the timing of such production may not occur as we or our customers had estimated or the volumes derived from such projects may not be as significant as we had estimated, which could have a substantial negative impact on our anticipated revenues and profitability. We have historically estimated the revenue from design wins, which can represent up to three years of revenue once product development has ramped into production. If a design win actually ramps into production, the average ramp into production begins about 12 to 18 months after the initial design win, although some more complex projects can take up to 24 months or longer. After that, there is an additional time lag from the start of production ramp to peak revenue. Not all design wins ramp into production and, even if a design win ramps into production, the volumes derived from such projects may be less than we had originally estimated. Products related to design wins are sometimes canceled or delayed, or can perform below original expectations, which can adversely impact anticipated revenues and profitability. In particular, the volumes and time to production ramp associated with new design wins depend on the adoption rate of new technologies in our customers’ end markets, especially in the communications networking sector. Should technologies such as Voice over IP, IP Multimedia Subsystem, 3G wireless technologies, IPTV, advanced multimedia applications and other emerging technologies not be adopted as fast as we or our customers anticipate, actual volumes from new design wins may be lower than we are expecting, which could adversely affect our revenue and gross margin. Our business depends on conditions in the communications networking and commercial systems markets. Demand in these markets can be cyclical and volatile, and any inability to sell products to these markets or forecast customer demand due to unfavorable or volatile market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin. We derive our revenues from a number of diverse end markets, some of which are subject to significant cyclical changes in demand. In 2007, we derived 76.0% and 24.0% of our revenues from the communications networking and commercial systems markets, respectively. In 2006, we derived 74.4% and 25.6% of our revenues from the communications networking and commercial systems markets, respectively. We believe that our revenues will continue to be derived primarily from these two markets. Communications networking revenues include, but are not limited to, sales to Alcatel Lucent, AT&T, Avaya, Comverse, Danaher, Fujitsu, Hewlett Packard, Huawei Technologies Co., IBM, Intercall, a division within West Corporation, Italtel, NEC, Nokia Siemens Networks, and Nortel. Commercial systems revenues include, but are not limited to, sales to Agilent Technologies, Arrow Electronics, Danaher, Philips Healthcare and Universal Instruments. Generally, our customers are not the end-users of our products. If our customers experience adverse economic conditions in the end markets into which they sell our products, we would expect a significant reduction in spending by our customers. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change and economic uncertainty. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in customer demand in these end markets could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. Significant reduction in our customers’ spending, such as what we experienced in 2001 and 2002, will result in decreased revenues and earnings. We are expanding into applications either through new product development projects with our existing customers or through new customer relationships, but no assurance can be given that this strategy will be successful. We forecast manufacturing needs based on customer demand. Changes in this demand could cause us or our contract manufacturers to hold excess or obsolete inventory that may not be salable to other customers on commercially reasonable terms, and which could require inventory valuation write downs that reduce our gross margin and profitability. This risk is exacerbated by a current trend from our customers of requiring shorter lead times between placing orders with us and the shipment date. That typically necessitates an increase in our inventory or inventory of our products at our contract manufacturers’ locations, raising the likelihood that upon 12 Table of Contents cancellation or deferral, we may be holding greater amounts of inventory and/or incurring additional costs. Additionally, we have adverse purchase commitment liabilities, which means we are contractually obligated to reimburse our contract manufacturers for the cost of excess inventory used in the manufacture of our products for which there is no forecasted or alternative use. In addition, customer demand for our products is subject to significant fluctuation. If we overestimate demand, we may experience underutilized capacity and excess inventory levels. If we underestimate demand, we may miss sales opportunities and incur additional costs for labor overtime, equipment overuse and logistical complexities. Unexpected decreases in customer demand or our inability to accurately forecast customer demand could also result in increases in our adverse purchase commitment liability and have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. Because of our dependence and our contract manufacturers’ dependence on a few suppliers, or in some cases one supplier, for some of the components we use, as well as our dependence on a few contract manufacturers to supply a majority of our products, a loss of a supplier, a decline in the quality of these components, a shortage of any of these components, or a loss or degradation in performance of a contract manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our business or our profitability. We depend on a few suppliers, or in some cases one supplier, for a continuing supply of the components we use in the manufacture of our products and any disruption in supply could adversely impact our financial performance. For example, we currently solely rely on Intel for the supply of some microprocessors and other components. Alternative sources of components that are procured from one supplier or a limited number of suppliers would be difficult to locate and/or would require a significant amount of time and resources to establish. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience difficulty obtaining adequate quantities of key components used in certain of our products, which have resulted and may result in delayed or lost sales. We also rely on contract manufacturers. In 2007, contract manufacturers provided approximately 80% of all of our unit volume, most of which was attributable to Foxconn and Jabil. If these third party manufacturers fail to adequately perform, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Among other things, inadequate performance by our contract manufacturers could include the production of products that do not meet our quality standards or schedule and delivery requirements and could cause us to manufacture products internally or seek additional sources of manufacturing. In addition, alternative internal or external sources of manufacturing for our products could require significant time and resources to establish or transition. Late in 2006, we discontinued a relationship with a North American contract manufacturer, which created additional expense for us through June 30, 2007. In the future we may make changes to our manufacturing strategy, which could include the transfer of production and may result in additional production and transition expenses as well as costs related to adverse purchase commitments or excess and obsolete inventory. The failure to successfully integrate the ATCA and compact PCI product lines acquired from Intel in the MCPD acquisition into our operations in the expected time frame, or at all, may adversely affect our future results. We believe that the acquisition of the ATCA and compact PCI product lines from Intel in September 2007 will result in certain benefits, including the acquisition of new customers, expanded global reach and increased product offerings. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, the ATCA and compact PCI product lines must be successfully integrated into our operations. In addition, the MCPD business was historically operated at a significant loss when it was owned by Intel. The success of this acquisition will depend on our ability to support customers as well as reduce the costs associated with it and realize these anticipated benefits. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of this acquisition on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: • the loss of key employees; 13 Table of Contents • failure to transition manufacturing operations from Intel and their partners; • failure to accurately estimate the costs of production and ongoing operations for this business; • failure to effectively coordinate sales, service and marketing efforts; and • failure to meet the needs of acquired customers. If we do not successfully integrate this business into our operations, support the acquired customers and reduce the related costs, we may not realize the anticipated revenues and profits from this acquisition. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. Similarly, if there are changes to technology requirements, it can render our products and technologies uncompetitive. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may not be able to successfully develop and market these new products; the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers; and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect the demand for our products. These types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our profitability and financial condition, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin, and requiring us to recognize and record impairments of our assets. Competition in the market for embedded systems is intense, and if we lose our market share, our revenues and profitability could decline. We face competition in the design of embedded solutions from a number of sources. Our principal competition remains the internal design resources of our own customers. Many of our customers retain the ability to design embedded solutions in-house. In order to achieve design wins and receive subsequent orders, we must convince our customers of the benefits associated with using our design services and solutions rather than solutions designed by their in-house personnel. While we believe that many of our customers will increase the proportion of their solutions sourced from merchant suppliers, we will need to continue to demonstrate the benefits of our solutions relative to similar products that could be developed by our customers’ internal personnel in order to successfully execute our strategy. In addition, consolidation of our customers can cause material changes in their use of third parties to realize new product designs. We also compete with a number of companies and divisions of companies that focus on providing embedded solutions, including, but not limited to, Advantech Co., AudioCodes, a division within Emerson, a division within General Electric Company, Hewlett-Packard, Interphase, IBM, IP Unity, Kontron AG, Mercury Computer Systems, and Sun Microsystems. Because the embedded systems market is growing, the market is attracting new non-traditional competitors. These non-traditional competitors include contract manufacturers that provide design services and Asian-based original design manufacturers. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have a number of significant advantages over us, including: • a longer operating history; • greater name recognition and marketing power; 14 Table of Contents • preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customers; • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements; • broader product and service offering to provide more complete and valued solutions; and • lower cost structures which, among other things, could include different accounting principles relative to US GAAP. Furthermore, existing or potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. As a result of increased competition, we could encounter significant pricing pressures and/or suffer losses in market share. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in the number of customers, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, many of the industries we serve, such as the communications industry, are encountering market consolidation, or are likely to encounter consolidation in the near future, which could result in increased pricing pressure and additional competition thus weakening our position or causing delays in new design wins and their associated production. Acquisitions and partnerships may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Future acquisitions and partnerships may involve the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities, issuances of debt and amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives. We may also be required to record a charge against earnings upon consummation of the acquisition in respect of the value of an acquired business’ technology that does not meet the accounting definition of “completed technology.” Moreover, to the extent that any proposed acquisition or strategic investment is not favorably received by shareholders, analysts and others in the investment community, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions or strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • unanticipated liabilities; • performance by the acquired business below our expectations; and • issues with meeting the needs of acquired customers. In the event that we make an acquisition or enter into a partnership and we are unable to successfully integrate operations, technologies, products or personnel that we acquire, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may expend additional resources without receiving a related benefit from strategic alliances with third parties. Our international operations expose us to additional political, economic and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. In 2007 and 2006, as measured by delivery destination, we derived 2.1% and 4.0%, respectively, of our revenues from Canada and Mexico, 40.6% and 48.1%, respectively, of our revenues from EMEA and 26.8% and 17.3%, respectively, from Asia Pacific. In 2004 we opened a development center in Shanghai, China and began 15 Table of Contents to utilize a contract manufacturer in Shenzhen, China. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 50% of our unit volume consisted of products produced by our China contract manufacturer. Also during 2006 we completed the acquisition of Convedia, which includes significant operations in Vancouver, British Columbia. Also, in September 2007, we acquired assets from Intel that include operations in Malaysia. In January 2008, we opened an office in Penang, Malaysia which will house operational staff to support our new Malaysian contract manufacturer as well as a small group of support and design engineers. As a result of all these activities, we are subject to worldwide economic and market condition risks generally associated with global trade, such as fluctuating exchange rates, tariff and trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest, wars and other acts of terrorism and changes in other economic conditions. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. Additionally, some of our sales to overseas customers are made under export licenses that must be obtained from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws, trade restrictions resulting from war or terrorism, or other trade policies could adversely affect our ability to sell or to manufacture in international markets. Furthermore, revenues from outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including the general economic and political conditions in each country. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. If we are unable to generate sufficient income in the future, we may not be able to fully utilize our net deferred tax assets or support our current levels of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. We cannot provide assurance that we will generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our net deferred tax assets, which were $46.6 million as of December 31, 2007. We may not generate sufficient taxable income due to earning lower than forecasted net income or incurring charges associated with unusual events, such as restructurings and acquisitions. Accordingly, we may record a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets if our expectations of future taxable income are not achieved. On the other hand, if we generate taxable income in excess of our expectations, the valuation allowance may be reduced accordingly. We also cannot provide assurance that future income will support the carrying amount of our goodwill and intangibles, which were $106.4 million as of December 31, 2007, and therefore, we may incur an impairment charge in the future. Our products for embedded solutions are based on industry standards, which are continually evolving, and any failure to conform to these standards or lack of success of these standards could have a substantial negative impact on our revenues and profitability. In addition, these standards could take longer to be deployed or may not be deployed at all. We develop and supply a mix of perfect fit (custom) and standards-based products. The industry standards upon which standards-based products for embedded computing are based are continually evolving. Our future success in these products will depend, in part, upon the success of these standards in the market and our capacity to invest in, and successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards. Reduced market acceptance of these standards and our inability to invest in or conform to these standards could render parts of our product portfolio uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. As new standards are developed for our addressable markets, we may be unable to successfully invest in, design and manufacture new products that address the needs of our customers or achieve substantial market acceptance. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to endure costly litigation. We are a technology dependent company, and our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. At the same time, our products are complex and are often not patentable in their entirety. We also license intellectual property from third parties and rely on those parties to maintain and protect their technology. We cannot be certain that our actions will protect our proprietary rights. Any patents owned by us may be 16 Table of Contents invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, or if we are unable to continue to obtain or maintain licenses for protected technology from third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, some of our products are now designed, manufactured and sold outside of the United States. Despite the precautions we take to protect our intellectual property, this international exposure may reduce or limit protection of our intellectual property, which is more prone to design piracy outside of the United States. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in stock-based compensation accounting rules have adversely impacted our operating results and may adversely impact our stock price. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued a Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”). SFAS 123R requires all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized as expense in the financial statements based on their fair values and does not allow the pro forma disclosure previously used as an alternative to financial statement recognition. We were required to adopt SFAS 123R in the first quarter of 2006. Under SFAS 123R, we applied the Black-Scholes valuation model in determining the fair value of share-based payments, with adjustments to the methodology as necessary for reporting under SFAS 123R guidelines. As a result, our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 contain, and our operating results for future periods will contain, a charge for share-based compensation related to stock options issued pursuant to our incentive plans and shares pursuant to our 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, in addition to the share-based compensation associated with our restricted share awards and restricted stock units (“restricted stock”). SFAS 123R had a significant impact on our operating results for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, with stock-based compensation expenses of $9.9 million and $6.6 million, respectively, for such periods. We expect the adoption of SFAS 123R will continue to have a significant adverse impact on our operating results in the future due primarily to the 2004 acceleration of employee stock options with an option price greater than $15.99. As a result of the acceleration, we reduced the amount of stock based compensation expense recognized in 2006; however, in 2007 stock based compensation expense has increased as the benefit from the acceleration will have been fully utilized. The increase in stock-based compensation expense is also due in part to the acquisition of Convedia in which we granted additional non-qualified stock options and restricted stock units to former Convedia employees. Decreased effectiveness of share-based payment awards could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to retain employees and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. In accordance with SFAS 123R, we began recording charges to earnings for stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. As a result, we have and will continue to incur increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs making it more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees in the future. Like other companies, we have reviewed our equity compensation strategy in light of the current regulatory and competitive environment and have decided to reduce the total number of options granted to employees and the number of employees who 17 Table of Contents receive share-based payment awards. Due to this change in our stock-based compensation strategy, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. We rely on our key management and depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. A small number of key executives manage our business. Their departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if incentive programs we offer are not considered desirable by current and prospective employees, we could have difficulty retaining or recruiting qualified personnel. If we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, our product development, and marketing and sales could be harmed. Our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting do not guarantee the absence of error or fraud. Disclosure controls are procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls are also designed to ensure that the information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Internal control over financial reporting (“Internal Controls”) are procedures which are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, do not expect that our disclosure controls or Internal Controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 18 Table of Contents Oregon corporate law, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us even if the change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions: • authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,663,952 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without prior shareholder approval, which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; and • limit the ability of shareholders to take action by written consent, thereby effectively requiring all common shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our common shareholders. In addition, if our common stock is acquired in specified transactions deemed to constitute “control share acquisitions,” provisions of Oregon law condition the voting rights that would otherwise be associated with those common shares upon approval by our shareholders (excluding, among other things, the acquirer in any such transaction). Provisions of Oregon law also restrict, subject to specified exceptions, the ability of a person owning 15% or more of our common stock to enter into any “business combination transaction” with us. The foregoing provisions of Oregon law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and value of our convertible notes. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public markets could depress the market price of our common stock, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. On February 6, 2008, we offered and sold $55.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2013 convertible senior notes. The price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity which we expect to occur involving our common stock. The capped call transaction may affect the value of our common stock. The capped call transaction, which we entered into with a hedge counterparty transaction in connection with the issuance of our 2013 convertible senior notes, is expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes in the event that the market value per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the capped call transaction, at the time of exercise is greater than the strike price of the capped call transaction, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the notes and is subject to certain adjustments similar to those contained in the 2013 convertible senior notes. If, however, the market value per share of our common stock exceeds the cap price of the capped call transaction, as measured under the terms of the capped call transaction, the dilution mitigation under the capped call transaction will be limited, which means 19 Table of Contents that there would be dilution to the extent that the then market value per share of our common stock exceeds the cap price of the capped call transaction. In connection with hedging the capped call transaction, the hedge counterparty or its affiliates: • expect to purchase our common stock and/or enter into various derivatives and/or enter into various derivatives transactions with respect to our common stock; and • may enter into or unwind various derivatives and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. These activities could have had the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the price of our common stock concurrently with or following the pricing of the 2013 convertible senior notes and could have the effect of decreasing the price of our common stock during the period immediately prior to a conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes. The hedge counterparty or its affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions in relation to the capped call transaction from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling our common stock, other of our securities, or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In addition, we intend to exercise options we hold under the capped call transaction whenever 2013 convertible senior notes are converted. In order to unwind its hedge positions with respect to those exercised options, the counterparty or affiliates thereof expect to sell our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the period immediately prior to conversion for the converted 2013 convertible senior notes. We have also agreed to indemnify the hedge counterparty and affiliates thereof for losses incurred in connection with a potential unwinding of their hedge positions under certain circumstances. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue the market value of our investments in auction rate securities may decline leading to impairment charges which could negatively affect the company’s financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings At December 31, 2007, our short-term investments were comprised of Auction Rate Securities (“ARS”) which are pools of highly rated debt instruments with a long-term nominal maturity for which the interest rate is set through a “Dutch Auction” process. Our investments in ARS represent interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of government backed student loans with AAA ratings. With the liquidity issues experienced in global credit and capital markets, in February 2008 $9.5 million of par value ARS we held experienced a failed auction as the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. As of February 26, 2008, we held $62.8 million of par value ARS. If recent uncertainties continue or markets deteriorate further and we are unable to or decide not to hold our ARS to maturity, we may incur impairment charges, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings and we may need to at least partially utilize our line of credit facility to meet our liquidity needs. Conversion of our convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders, including holders who have previously converted their convertible senior notes. Upon conversion of our convertible senior notes, some or all of the ownership interests of existing shareholders may be diluted. Although the capped call transaction is expected to reduce potential dilution upon conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes, the conversion of our convertible senior notes could still have a 20 Table of Contents dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the cap price of the capped call. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of our convertible senior notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Other Risks Related to Our Business Other risk factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the mix of products sold, changes in regulatory and tax legislation, changes in effective tax rates, inventory risks due to changes in market demand or our business strategies, potential litigation and claims arising in the normal course of business, credit risk of customers and other risk factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 