Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Because of the significant percentage of our sales to certain customers, the loss of, or a substantial decline in sales to, a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. For 2010, 2009 and 2008, we derived 63.4%, 64.6%, and 59.7%, respectively, of our revenues from our five largest customers during these periods. These five customers were Arrow Electronics, Danaher, G.E. Healthcare, Nokia Siemens Networks and Philips Healthcare, which each purchase a variety of products from us. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, revenues attributable to Nokia Siemens Networks were 37.4%, 45.9%, and 43.5%, respectively. Because of our significant customer concentration, our largest customers have additional pricing power over us that can adversely affect revenues, gross margins or cause us to gradually exit lines of business with them that do not meet profitability objectives. Further, a financial hardship experienced by, or a substantial decrease in sales to, any one of our customers could materially affect our revenues and profitability. Generally, our products are components for our customers’ products and, in certain instances, our customers are not the end-users of our products. If any of these customers’ efforts to market the products we design and manufacture for them or the end products into which our products are incorporated are unsuccessful in the marketplace or if these customers experience a decrease in demand for such products, our design wins, sales and/or profitability will be significantly reduced. Furthermore, if these customers experience adverse economic conditions in the end markets into which they sell our products, we would expect a significant reduction in spending by these customers in addition to increasing our exposure to credit risk, which may limit our ability to collect. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change and economic uncertainty and as such there is no guarantee that the revenues associated with the potential loss of a key customer will be replaced by the establishment of new business relationships. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in demand from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. We use two major contract manufacturers to assemble certain RadiSys products, and a loss or degradation in performance of a contract manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our business or our profitability. In 2010, we completed the transition to a fully outsourced model of manufacturing. Furthermore, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we began a process to consolidate all of our manufacturing capabilities with one contract manufacturer. If our third party manufacturers fail to adequately perform, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Among other things, inadequate performance by our contract manufacturers could include the production of products that do not meet our quality standards or schedule and delivery requirements and could cause us to manufacture products internally or seek additional sources of manufacturing. Additionally, our contract manufacturers may decide in the future to discontinue conducting business with us. If we are required to change contract manufacturers or assume internal manufacturing operations due to any termination of the agreements with our contract manufacturers, we may lose revenue, experience manufacturing delays, incur increased costs or otherwise damage our customer relationships. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish alternative manufacturing relationships on similar terms. Also, once the transition to one contract manufacturer is complete, the loss of this manufacturer, a deterioration of our relationship with them, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Additionally, if our contract manufacturers are responsible for a patent or copyright infringement (including through the supply of counterfeit parts), we may or may not be able to hold them responsible and we may incur costs in defending claims or providing remedies. Such infringements may also cause our customers to abruptly discontinue selling the impacted products, which would adversely affect our net sales of those products, and could affect our customer relationships more broadly. 11Table of ContentsOur ability to successfully transition all of our manufacturing to one contract manufacturer depends on the performance of our current contract manufacturers as well as our own management. If our contract manufacturers do not perform as expected, we underestimate the cost of the transfer or our internal measures to mitigate this risk are not effective, we could have a material adverse affect on our business or our profitability. In 2010, we made the decision to consolidate all of our manufacturing capabilities with one manufacturer. During 2011, we will begin the process of transitioning manufacturing to Jabil, which is expected to be substantially complete by September 30, 2011. The successful transition of our manufacturing to Jabil is partly dependent upon the cooperation and continued performance of our other contract manufacturer. During the transition period, we must establish procedures to ensure that our contract manufacturer maintains its high standards of quality and on time delivery with a reasonable cost structure despite the pending termination of our relationship. Our master supplier agreement provides for a six month notification period for the termination of the agreement. Although we have not yet provided formal notice of termination of the master supplier agreement, we must still ensure that the transition is completed smoothly with sustained high performance before setting a formal termination date.As part of the transition, we plan to increase our inventory to mitigate the risk of not being able to meet customer demand during the transition and to be able to fulfill last time buy orders of products that will not be transferred to Jabil. Holding increased levels of inventory could expose us to increased excess and obsolete charges that could negatively impact our operating results. Not maintaining adequate levels of inventory could result in missed sales opportunities and a loss of market share, negatively impacting revenues and our overall operating results. If the transition does not go as expected, in addition to other issues noted above, each of the following events could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and our business reputation: • delay of shipments; • unexpected cost overruns; and• quality issues with outsourced products. Once the transition is complete, our use of one primary contract manufacturer to produce all of our products could increase our exposure to product quality problems, late deliveries and increased costs. While we will have influence as their customer, we will not have complete control. Our ability, as well as our contract manufacturers’ ability, to meet customer demand depends largely on our ability to obtain raw materials and a reduction or disruption in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our business. The continued global economic contraction has caused many of our component suppliers to reduce their manufacturing capacity. As the global economy improves, our component suppliers are experiencing and will continue to experience supply constraints until they expand capacity to meet increased levels of demand. These supply constraints may adversely affect the availability and lead times of components for our products. Increased lead times mean we may have to forsake flexibility in aligning our supply to customer demand changes and increase our exposure to excess inventory since we may have to order material earlier and in larger quantities. Further, supply constraints will likely result in increased expedite and overall procurement costs as we attempt to meet customer demand requirements. In addition, these supply constraints may affect our ability, as well as our contract manufacturers’ ability, to meet customer demand and thus result in missed sales opportunities and a loss of market share, negatively impacting revenues and our overall operating results. Because of the limited number of direct and indirect suppliers, or in some cases, one supplier, for some of the components we and our contract manufacturers use, a loss of a supplier, a decline in the quality of these components, or a shortage of any of these components could have a material adverse effect on our business or our profitability. There are only a limited number of direct and indirect suppliers, or in some cases, only one supplier, for a continuing supply of the components our contract manufacturers use in the manufacture of our products and any disruption in supply could adversely impact our financial performance. For example, we have some silicon that is solely sourced from companies like Intel, Texas Instruments, Cavium or Broadband, to name a few. We obtain these components from resellers, integrators and component manufacturers. Alternative sources of components that are procured from one supplier or a limited number of suppliers could be difficult to locate and/or would require a significant amount of time and resources to establish. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience difficulty obtaining adequate quantities of key components used in certain of our products, which have resulted and may result in delayed or lost sales. Delayed sales can also result from our silicon vendor's delays or cancellations of new technologies and products as these technologies and products are often designed into new RadiSys products before they are fully available from our suppliers. In addition, current economic conditions expose us to an increased risk of vendor insolvency, which, given our reliance upon a limited supply base, could result in an inability to 12Table of Contentsprocure adequate quantities of materials and components to meet our customers’ demand and/or ability to procure the quality of materials and components our customers require. Our failure to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could harm our ability to attract and retain customers. Our industry is characterized by rapidly evolving technology, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater performance and functionality. Therefore, we must continually identify, design, develop and introduce new and updated products with improved features to remain competitive. To introduce these products on a timely basis we must: • design innovative and performance-improving features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors;• identify emerging technological trends in our target markets, including new standards for our products in a timely manner;• accurately define and design new products to meet market needs;• anticipate changes in end-user preferences with respect to our customers’ products;• rapidly develop and produce these products at competitive prices;• anticipate and respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and• provide effective technical and post-sales support for these new products as they are deployed. We intend to develop new products and expand into new markets, which may not be successful and could harm our operating results. We intend to expand into new markets and develop new products and applications based on our existing technologies integrated with new technologies organically developed or acquired. These efforts have required and will continue to require us to make substantial investments, including but not limited to significant research, development and engineering expenditures. Additionally, many of the new products and applications we are working on may take longer and more resources to develop and commercialize than originally anticipated. Specific risks in connection with expanding into new products and markets include, but are not limited to the inability to transfer our quality standards and technology into new products, the failure of customers to accept our new products, longer product development cycles and competition and intellectual property disputes. We may not be able to successfully manage expansion into new markets and products and these unsuccessful efforts may harm our financial condition and operating results. Our projections of future purchase orders, revenues and earnings are highly subjective and may not reflect future results which could negatively affect our financial results and cause volatility in the price of our common stock. We have several contracts with most of our major customers but these contracts do not commit them to purchase a minimum amount of our products. These contracts generally require our customers to provide us with forecasts of their anticipated purchases. However, our experience indicates that customers can change their purchasing patterns quickly in response to market demands, changes in their management or strategy, among other factors, and therefore these forecasts may not be relied upon to accurately forecast sales. From time to time we provide projections to our shareholders and the investment community of our future sales and earnings. Since we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order cycle is short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our sales and related earnings in any given period. Our projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data, information from customers and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their customers and the relevant markets. Our period to period revenues have varied in the past and may continue to vary in the future. Unanticipated reductions in purchase orders from our customers may also result in us having to write off excess or obsolete inventory. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available or if our customers experience a financial hardship or if we experience unplanned cancellations of customer contracts, the current provision for the inventory reserves may be inadequate and as a result we could forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition and as stated above, we have a high degree of customer concentration. Any significant change in purchases by any one of our large customers can significantly affect our sales and profitability. If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: • changes in customer product needs;13Table of Contents• changes in the level of customers’ inventory;• changes in business and economic conditions;• changes in the mix of products we sell; and• market acceptance of our products. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by numerous factors, such as general economic and market conditions, changes in analysts’ estimates regarding earnings as well as factors relating to the commercial systems and communication networking markets in general. We cannot accurately forecast all of the above factors. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons may not be indicative of future operating results. Our operating results in any future period may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. Our business depends on conditions in the communications networks and commercial systems markets. Demand in these markets can be cyclical and volatile, and any inability to sell products to these markets or forecast customer demand due to unfavorable or volatile market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin. We derive our revenues from a number of diverse end markets, some of which are subject to significant cyclical changes in demand. In 2010, we derived 73.8% and 26.2% of our revenues from the communications networks and commercial systems markets, respectively. In 2009, we derived 78.5% and 21.5% of our revenues from the communications networks and commercial systems markets, respectively. In 2008, we derived 79.2% and 20.8% of our revenues from the communications networks and commercial systems markets, respectively. We believe that our revenues will continue to be derived primarily from these two markets. Communications networks revenues include, but are not limited to, sales to AT&T (fulfilled through Nokia Siemens Networks), Bigband Networks, Cisco Systems, Comverse Technology, IBM, IP Access, Italtel, Kineto Wireless, LG Ericsson, Motorola, Danaher (fulfilled through NEI), Nokia Siemens Networks, Okaya (end customer Fujitsu), PGi (formerly Premiere Global), PointRed, Qwest, Samsung, Tellabs, NEC, UTStarcom, Viasat, Webex, West Corporation, and ZTE. Commercial systems revenues include, but are not limited to, sales to AAI, Agilent Technologies, Arrow Electronics, G.E. Healthcare, IBM, Lestina International, Miltope, Philips Healthcare, and Siemens Medical. Generally, our products are components for our customers’ products and, in certain instances, our customers are not the end-users of our products. If our customers experience adverse economic conditions in the end markets into which they sell our products, we would expect a significant reduction in spending by our customers. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, consolidation of providers and economic uncertainty. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in customer demand in these end markets could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. We are expanding into applications either through new product development projects with our existing customers or through new customer relationships, but no assurance can be given that this strategy will be successful. In addition, customer demand for our products is subject to significant fluctuation. A prolonged economic downturn in the business or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a decline in our revenue, gross margin and overall profitability. Volatility and disruption of financial and credit markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and invest in network infrastructure and therefore could also reduce demand for our products and result in a decline revenue, gross margin and overall profitability. If we overestimate demand, we may experience underutilized capacity and excess inventory levels. As such, if we underestimate demand, we may miss sales opportunities and incur additional costs for labor overtime, equipment overuse and logistical complexities. Additionally, we have adverse purchase commitment liabilities, which means we are contractually obligated to reimburse our contract manufacturers for the cost of excess inventory used in the manufacture of our products for which there is no forecasted or alternative use. Unexpected decreases in customer demand or our inability to accurately forecast customer demand could also result in increases in our adverse purchase commitment liability and have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. Not all new design wins ramp into production, and even if ramped into production, the timing of such production may not occur as we or our customers had estimated or the volumes derived from such projects may not be as significant as we had estimated, which could have a substantial negative impact on our anticipated revenues and profitability. Our revenue growth expectations for our Next Generation products are highly dependent upon successful ramping of our design wins. The time between when we achieve a design win with a customer and when we begin shipping to that customer at production levels generally has been shortened with our standards-based model. In some cases there is no time in between when a design win is achieved and when production level shipments begin. With many new design wins with our ATCA platforms and our COM Express module’s, customers may require us to provide customization to our products. In addition, customers may require significant time to port their own applications to our systems. Customization of our products as well as porting of customer specific applications can take six to twelve months and in some circumstances can be as long as 24 months. After that, there is an additional time lag from the start of production ramp to peak revenue. Not all design wins ramp into 14Table of Contentsproduction and, even if a design win ramps into production, the volumes derived from such projects may be less than we had originally estimated. Customer projects related to design wins are sometimes canceled or delayed, or can perform below original expectations, which can adversely impact anticipated revenues and profitability. In particular, the volumes and time to production ramp associated with new design wins depend on the adoption rate of new technologies in our customers’ end markets, especially in the communications networking sector. Program delays or cancellations could be more frequent during times of meaningful economic downturn or due to the consolidation of one or more of our end customers. Should technologies such as Voice over IP, IMS, 3G and 4G/LTE wireless technologies, IPTV, advanced multimedia applications, Femtocell applications and other emerging technologies not be adopted as fast as we or our customers anticipate, actual volumes from new design wins may be lower than we are expecting, which could adversely affect our revenue growth and gross margin expectations. We rely on our key management and depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. A small number of key executives manage our business. Their departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if incentive programs we offer are not considered desirable by current and prospective employees, we could have difficulty retaining or recruiting qualified personnel. If we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, our product development, and marketing and sales could be harmed. As of December 31, 2010, we had 1.9 million outstanding stock options awarded to our executive management team with an average grant price of $12.49. As the average grant price of our outstanding options is greater than our current stock price, our stock option program may become less effective as an incentive to retain our current management team. The growth of our business is dependent in part on successfully implementing our international expansion strategy. In 2010, we completed the transition to a fully outsourced manufacturing model utilizing Asian-based contract manufacturers. We also increased our international headcount partly due to our strategic plan to increase our engineering presence in Asia. Both of these strategic initiatives increase our international presence, which along with our existing international operations involve risks inherent in doing business on an international level. These risks include the following: • difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language, and cultural differences;• different or conflicting laws and regulations;• accounting (including managing internal control over financial reporting in our non-U.S. subsidiaries), tax and legal complexities arising from international operations;• burdensome regulatory requirements and unexpected changes in these requirements, including data protection requirements;• political and economic instability;• fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and• different laws and regulations surrounding taxes and their potentially adverse consequences. Our foreign currency exchange risk management program reduces, but does not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. If we cannot manage our international operations successfully, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Acquisitions and partnerships may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Future acquisitions and partnerships may involve the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities, issuances of debt and amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives. Moreover, to the extent that any proposed acquisition or strategic investment is not favorably received by shareholders, analysts and others in the investment community, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions or strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: 15Table of Contents• difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company;• the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;• the risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience;• the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company;• unanticipated liabilities;• performance by the acquired business below our expectations; and• issues with meeting the needs of acquired customers. In the event that we make an acquisition or enter into a partnership and we are unable to successfully integrate operations, technologies, products or personnel that we acquire, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may expend additional resources without receiving a related benefit from strategic alliances with third parties. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. Similarly, if there are changes to technology requirements, it can render our products and technologies uncompetitive. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful marketing and R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may not be able to successfully develop and market these new products; the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers; and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect the demand for our products. These types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our profitability and financial condition, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin, reducing our profitability and/or requiring us to recognize and record impairments of our assets. There are a number of trends and factors affecting our markets, including economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia, which are beyond our control. These trends and factors may result in increasing upward pressure on the costs of products and an overall reduction in demand. There are trends and factors affecting our markets and our sources of supply that are beyond our control and may negatively affect our cost of sales. Such trends and factors include: adverse changes in the cost of raw commodities and increasing freight, energy, and labor costs in developing regions such as China. Our business strategy has been to provide customers with faster time-to-market and greater value solutions in order to help them compete in an industry that generally faces downward pricing pressure. In addition, our competitors have in the past lowered, and may again in the future lower, prices in order to increase their market share, which would ultimately reduce the price we may realize from our customers. If we are unable to realize prices that allow us to continue to compete on this basis of performance, our profit margin, market share, and overall financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Some of the products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us incorporate open source software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Certain of our products and technologies incorporate software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License (“GPL”), GNU Lesser General Public License (“LGPL”), the Common Public License, "Apache-style" licenses, "Berkley Software Distribution or BSD-style" licenses, among other open source licenses. Some of these open source licenses contain requirements that we offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license, granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. If an author or other third-party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be enjoined from the distribution of our products that contained the open source software and required to make the source code for the open source software available to others, to grant third parties certain rights of further use of our software or to remove the open source software from our products, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our products. Further, if we 16Table of Contentscombine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. If an author or other third-party that distributes open source software were to obtain a judgment against us based on allegations that we had not complied with the terms of any such open source licenses, we could also be subject to liability for copyright infringement damages and breach of contract for our past distribution of such open source software. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensor's generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. We monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to unwanted conditions. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses, and therefore the potential impact of these terms on our business is somewhat unknown and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow and ability to commercialize our products or technologies. Competition in the market for embedded systems is intense, and if we lose our market share, our revenues and profitability could decline. We face competition in the design of embedded solutions from a number of sources. Our principal competition remains the internal design resources of our own customers. Many of our customers retain the ability to design embedded solutions in-house. In order to achieve design wins and receive subsequent orders from these customers, we must convince them of the benefits associated with using our design services and solutions rather than solutions designed by their in-house personnel. While we believe that many of our customers will increase the proportion of their solutions sourced from merchant suppliers, we will need to continue to demonstrate the benefits of our solutions relative to similar products that could be developed by our customers’ internal personnel in order to successfully execute our strategy. In addition, consolidation of our customers can cause material changes in their use of third parties to realize new product designs. We also compete with a number of companies and divisions of companies that focus on providing embedded solutions, including, but not limited to, ADLink Technologies, Advantech Co., AudioCodes, Continuous Computing, Dialogic, Emerson Network Power, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Kontron AG, and Movius. Because the embedded systems market is growing, the market is attracting new non-traditional competitors. These non-traditional competitors include contract manufacturers that provide design services and Asian-based original design manufacturers. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have a number of significant advantages over us, including: • a longer operating history;• greater name recognition and marketing power;• preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customers;• significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements;• broader product and service offering to provide more complete and valued solutions; and• lower cost structures which, among other things, could include different accounting principles relative to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Furthermore, existing or potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. As a result of increased competition, we could encounter significant pricing pressures and/or suffer losses in market share. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in the number of customers, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, many of the industries we serve, such as the communications industry, are encountering market consolidation, or are likely to encounter consolidation in the near future, which could result in increased pricing pressure and additional competition thus weakening our position or causing delays in new design wins and their associated production. 17Table of ContentsWe have incurred, and may in the future incur, restructuring and other charges, the amounts of which are difficult to predict accurately. From time to time, we have sought to optimize our operational capabilities and efficiencies and focus our efforts and expertise through business restructurings. In the future we may decide to engage in discrete restructurings of our operations if business or economic conditions warrant. Possible adverse consequences related to such actions may include various charges for such items as idle capacity, disposition costs, severance costs, loss of propriety information and in-house knowledge. We may be unsuccessful in any of our current or future efforts to restructure our business, which may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our international operations expose us to additional political, economic and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, as measured by delivery destination, we derived 0.3%, 0.9% and 1.6%, respectively, of our revenues from Canada and Mexico, 28.2%, 27.2% and 37.0%, respectively, of our revenues from EMEA and 37.5%, 39.9% and 30.5%, respectively, from Asia Pacific. During 2010, we continued to globally diversify our operations and completed our transition to a fully outsourced manufacturing model. As part of this plan we transferred our remaining internally manufactured products from our plant in Hillsboro, Oregon to lower cost manufacturing partners in Asia. As of December 31, 2010, 100% of our manufacturing was completed by our Asian contract manufacturing partners. As a result of all these activities, we are subject to worldwide economic and market conditions risks generally associated with global trade, such as fluctuating exchange rates, tariff and trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest, wars and other acts of terrorism and changes in other economic conditions. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. Additionally, some of our sales to overseas customers are made under export licenses that must be obtained from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws, trade restrictions resulting from war or terrorism, or other trade policies could adversely affect our ability to sell or to manufacture in international markets. Additionally, U.S. federal and state agency restrictions imposed by the Buy American Act or the Trade Agreement Act may apply to our products manufactured outside the United States. Furthermore, revenues from outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including the general economic and political conditions in each country. As a result of the recent financial crisis and tightening of the credit markets, our customers and suppliers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair our customers’ ability to make timely payments to us and could cause key suppliers to delay shipments and face serious risks of insolvency. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. Our ability to procure contracts, maintain and increase revenues in foreign markets may be negatively impacted by increasing protectionism of foreign governments. Some foreign governments have come under increased pressure to protect their domestic economy and national security. Economic and security concerns have resulted in increasing protectionism that excludes foreign market participants from successfully procuring contracts and gaining sales in foreign markets. As a result, our revenues could decrease and business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to endure costly litigation. We are a technology dependent company, and our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. At the same time, our products are complex and are often not patentable in their entirety. We also license intellectual property from third parties and rely on those parties to maintain and protect their technology. We cannot be certain that our actions will protect our proprietary rights. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, or if we are unable to continue to obtain or maintain licenses for protected technology from third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, some of our products are now designed, manufactured and sold outside of the United States. Despite the precautions we take to protect our intellectual property, this international exposure may reduce or limit protection of our intellectual property, which is more prone to design piracy outside of the United States. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on 18Table of Contentscommercially reasonable terms. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes to the inputs used to value our share based awards could adversely affect our operating results. We are required to recognize the fair value of stock options and other share-based payment compensation to employees and Board of Directors as compensation expense in the statement of income. Option pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including stock price volatility, expected life and forfeiture rate of such options. We base our estimates on historical experience as well as other assumptions management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time of updating our assumptions. Accordingly, actual results may differ significantly from these estimates, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. Given the unpredictable nature and current significant volatility of the “Black-Scholes” variables and other management assumptions such as number of options to be granted, underlying strike price and associated income tax impact, share based payment costs may differ from estimates as well as increase in future periods. Total share-based compensation expense decreased for the year end December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, however unfavorable changes in the other assumptions used to value our share-based payment arrangements could result in future increased compensation costs. Any such increase will be driven by significant fluctuations to the inputs used in applying our Black-Scholes valuation model, which may have a material impact on our operating results. Our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting do not guarantee the absence of error or fraud. Disclosure controls are procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls are also designed to ensure that the information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Internal controls over financial reporting are procedures which are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, do not expect that our disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Oregon corporate law, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us even if the change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions: 19Table of Contents• authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,663,952 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without prior shareholder approval, which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock;• establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings;• prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; and• limit the ability of shareholders to take action by written consent, thereby effectively requiring all common shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our common shareholders. In addition, if our common stock is acquired in specified transactions deemed to constitute “control share acquisitions,” provisions of Oregon law condition the voting rights that would otherwise be associated with those common shares upon approval by our shareholders (excluding, among other things, the acquirer in any such transaction). Provisions of Oregon law also restrict, subject to specified exceptions, the ability of a person owning 15% or more of our common stock to enter into any “business combination transaction” with us. The foregoing provisions of Oregon law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and value of our convertible notes. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public markets could depress the market price of our common stock, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2013 convertible senior notes outstanding. The price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity which we expect to occur involving our common stock. The capped call transaction may affect the value of our common stock and any desired dilution mitigation will be limited to the extent that our stock price remains below $23.08 per share. The capped call transaction, which we entered into with a hedge counterparty in connection with the issuance of our 2013 convertible senior notes, is expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes in the event that the market value per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the capped call transaction, at the time of exercise is greater than the strike price of the capped call transaction, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the notes and is subject to certain adjustments similar to those contained in the 2013 convertible senior notes. Because the maximum number of shares deliverable under the capped call transaction is less than the number of shares issuable upon conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes, we refer to this effect as “dilution mitigation.” If, however, the market value per share of our common stock exceeds the cap price of the capped call transaction of $23.08 per share, as measured under the terms of the capped call transaction, no additional shares would be delivered under the capped call transaction, and correspondingly, the dilution mitigation under the capped call transaction will be limited, which means that there would be dilution to the extent that the then market value per share of our common stock exceeds the cap price of the capped call transaction. In connection with hedging the capped call transaction, the hedge counterparty or its affiliates: • expect to purchase our common stock in the open market and/or enter into various derivatives and/or enter into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock; and• may enter into or unwind various derivatives and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. These activities could have had the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the price of our common stock concurrently with or following the pricing of the 2013 convertible senior notes and could have the effect of decreasing the price of our common stock during the period immediately prior to a conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes. The hedge counterparty or its affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions in relation to the capped call transaction 20Table of Contentsfrom time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling our common stock, other of our securities, or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In addition, we intend to exercise options we hold under the capped call transaction whenever 2013 convertible senior notes are converted. In order to unwind its hedge positions with respect to those exercised options, the counterparty or affiliates thereof expect to sell our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the period immediately prior to conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes. We have also agreed to indemnify the hedge counterparty and affiliates thereof for losses incurred in connection with a potential unwinding of their hedge positions under certain circumstances. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. For further information regarding the mechanics of our capped call transaction refer to our discussion in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Conversion of our convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders, including holders who have previously converted their convertible senior notes. Our 2013 convertible senior notes have a conversion price of equivalent to $13.03 per share. Upon conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes, some or all of the ownership interests of existing shareholders may be diluted. Although the capped call transaction is expected to reduce potential dilution upon conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes, the conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes could still have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the cap price of $23.08 per share for the capped call. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 