Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Because of our dependence on certain customers, the loss of, or a substantial decline in sales to, a top customer could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. For 2008 and 2007, we derived 59.7% and 66.0%, respectively, of our revenues from our five largest customers during these periods. These five customers were Nokia Siemens Networks, Philips Healthcare, Danaher, Agilent and Fujitsu. During 2008, revenues attributable to Nokia Siemens Networks were 43.5%. During 2007, revenues attributable to Nokia Siemens Networks were 44.8%. Because of our significant customer concentration, our largest customers have additional pricing power over us. Further, a financial hardship experienced by, or a substantial decrease in sales to, any one of our customers could materially affect our revenues and profitability. Generally, these customers are not the end-users of our products. If any of these customers’ efforts to market the products we design and manufacture for them or the end products into which our products are incorporated are unsuccessful in the marketplace or if these customers experience a decrease in demand for such products, our design wins, sales and/or profitability will be significantly reduced. Furthermore, if these customers experience adverse economic conditions in the end markets into which they sell our products, we would expect a significant reduction in spending by these customers in addition to increasing our exposure to credit risk, which may limit our ability to collect. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change and economic uncertainty and as such there is no guarantee that the revenues associated with the potential loss of a key customer will be replaced by the establishment of new business relationships. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in demand from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and macro- economic uncertainties and fears. Recently general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a significant downturn due to the credit conditions impacted by factors such as the subprime-mortgage turmoil, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation and deflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity, the ongoing effects of the war in Iraq, recent international conflicts and terrorist and military activity, and the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products and services, which would lengthen sales cycles and, ultimately, reduce our revenues and profitability. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, depth or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the markets in which we operate. If the economy 11 Table of Contents or markets in which we operate do not continue at their present levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. All the aforementioned macro-economic challenges and conditions could negatively impact our results of operations. We have shifted our business from predominately perfect fit (custom) solutions to more standards-based products, such as ATCA, IP Media Servers, and COM Express. This required substantial expenditures for R&D and if this strategy is not successful, our long-term revenues, profitability and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected We have shifted our business from predominately perfect fit solutions, or custom, to more standards-based solutions, such as ATCA, IP Media Server, and COM Express products. We believe that over the next several years customers will continue to increasingly design their embedded computing platforms around standards-based architectures and increasingly source embedded solutions from third-party suppliers, such as RadiSys. However, there can be no assurance that this strategy will be successful and the current state of the economy could further delay or prolong the transition or adoption of standards-based products. This strategy required us to make substantial expenditures for R&D in new technologies, which were reflected as current expenses in our financial statements. There is no assurance that these new products and technologies will be accepted by all of our customers and, if accepted, how large the market will be for these products or what the timing will be for any meaningful revenues. Customers may not choose to use standards-based products to the extent that we are projecting or in the timeframe that we are projecting, and if customers instead continue to use perfect fit architectures when designing their systems, we may not be well positioned to receive orders for such projects, or if we do receive such orders, they may not be profitable given our operational focus on standards-based solutions. If we are unable to successfully develop and sell standards-based products to our customers, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if we successfully develop standards-based products we may incur incremental R&D expenses as we tailor the standards-based products for our customers. Furthermore, we are building standards-based products to meet industry standards that define the basis of compatibility in the operation and communication of a system supported by different vendors. Those standards constantly change and new competing standards emerge. The development or adaptation of products and technologies requires us to commit financial resources, personnel and time significantly in advance of sales. In order to compete, our decisions with respect to those commitments must accurately anticipate, sometimes two years or more in advance, both future demand and the technologies that will gain market acceptance to meet that demand. Our projections of future revenues and earnings are highly subjective and may not reflect future results which could cause volatility in the price of our common stock. We have contracts with most of our major customers but these contracts do not commit them to purchase a minimum amount of our products. These contracts generally require our customers to provide us with forecasts of their anticipated purchases. However, our experience indicates that customers can change their purchasing patterns quickly in response to market demands, changes in their management or strategy, among other factors, and therefore these forecasts may not be relied upon to accurately forecast sales. From time to time we provide projections to our shareholders and the investment community of our future sales and earnings. Since we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our major customers and the customer order cycle is short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the amount of our sales and related earnings in any given period. Our projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data, information from customers and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales to our customers can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their customers and the relevant markets. Our period to period revenues have varied in the past and may continue to vary in the future. Unanticipated reductions in purchase orders from our customers may also result in our having to write off excess or obsolete inventory. In addition and as stated above, we have a high degree of customer concentration. Any significant change in purchases by any one of our large customers can significantly affect our sales and profitability. 12 Table of Contents If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenues, profitability and financial condition could be adversely affected. Important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: • changes in customer product needs; • changes in the level of customers’ inventory; • changes in business and economic conditions; • changes in the mix of products we sell; and • market acceptance of our products. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by numerous factors, such as general economic and market conditions, changes in analysts’ estimates regarding earnings as well as factors relating to the commercial systems and communication networking markets in general. We cannot accurately forecast all of the above factors. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons may not be indicative of future operating results. Our operating results in any future period may fall below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. Our failure to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis could harm our ability to attract and retain customers. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, frequent product introductions and ongoing demands for greater speed and functionality. Therefore, we must continually design, develop and introduce new products with improved features to be competitive. To introduce these products on a timely basis we must: • design innovative and performance-improving features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; • identify emerging technological trends in our target markets, including new standards for our products; • accurately define and design new products to meet market needs; • anticipate changes in end-user preferences with respect to our customers’ products; • rapidly develop and produce these products at competitive prices; • respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and • provide effective technical and post-sales support for these new products as they are deployed. Not all new design wins ramp into production, and even if ramped into production, the timing of such production may not occur as we or our customers had estimated or the volumes derived from such projects may not be as significant as we had estimated, which could have a substantial negative impact on our anticipated revenues and profitability. We have historically estimated the revenue from design wins, which can represent up to three years of revenue once product development has ramped into production. If a design win actually ramps into production, the average ramp into production begins about 12 to 18 months after the initial design win, although some more complex projects can take up to 24 months or longer. After that, there is an additional time lag from the start of production ramp to peak revenue. Not all design wins ramp into production and, even if a design win ramps into production, the volumes derived from such projects may be less than we had originally estimated. Products related to design wins are sometimes canceled or delayed, or can perform below original expectations, which can adversely impact anticipated revenues and profitability. In particular, the volumes and time to production ramp associated with new design wins depend on the adoption rate of new technologies in our customers’ end markets, especially in the communications networking sector. Program delays or cancellations could be more frequent during times of meaningful economic downturn. Should technologies such as Voice over IP, IP Multimedia Subsystem, 3G wireless technologies, IPTV, advanced multimedia applications and other emerging technologies 13 Table of Contents not be adopted as fast as we or our customers anticipate, actual volumes from new design wins may be lower than we are expecting, which could adversely affect our revenue and gross margin. Our business depends on conditions in the communications networking and commercial systems markets. Demand in these markets can be cyclical and volatile, and any inability to sell products to these markets or forecast customer demand due to unfavorable or volatile market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin. We derive our revenues from a number of diverse end markets, some of which are subject to significant cyclical changes in demand. In 2008, we derived 78.5% and 21.5% of our revenues from the communications networking and commercial systems markets, respectively. In 2007, we derived 76.0% and 24.0% of our revenues from the communications networking and commercial systems markets, respectively. We believe that our revenues will continue to be derived primarily from these two markets. Communications networking revenues include, but are not limited to, sales to Alcatel Lucent, Aspect Telecom, Avaya, Bigband Networks, British Telecom, Cisco Systems, Comverse, Danaher, Fujitsu, Hewlett Packard, Huawei Technologies Co., IBM, IP Access, Italtel, Kineto Wireless, Italtel, NEC, Nokia Siemens Networks, Nortel, West Corporation, and ZTE. Commercial systems revenues include, but are not limited to, sales to Agilent Technologies, Arrow Electronics, Danaher, Miltope, Mindray, Philips Healthcare, Siemens Medical and Universal Instruments. Generally, our customers are not the end-users of our products. If our customers experience adverse economic conditions in the end markets into which they sell our products, we would expect a significant reduction in spending by our customers. Some of these end markets are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change and economic uncertainty. Our exposure to economic cyclicality and any related fluctuation in customer demand in these end markets could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. We are expanding into applications either through new product development projects with our existing customers or through new customer relationships, but no assurance can be given that this strategy will be successful. We forecast manufacturing needs based on customer demand. Changes in this demand could cause us or our contract manufacturers to hold excess or obsolete inventory that may not be salable to other customers on commercially reasonable terms, and which could require inventory valuation write downs that reduce our gross margin and profitability. This risk is exacerbated by a current trend from our customers of requiring shorter lead times between placing orders with us and the shipment date. That typically necessitates an increase in our inventory or inventory of our products at our contract manufacturers’ locations, raising the likelihood that upon cancellation or deferral, we may be holding greater amounts of inventory and/or incurring additional costs. Additionally, we have adverse purchase commitment liabilities, which means we are contractually obligated to reimburse our contract manufacturers for the cost of excess inventory used in the manufacture of our products for which there is no forecasted or alternative use. In addition, customer demand for our products is subject to significant fluctuation. A prolonged economic downturn in the business or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a decline in our revenue, gross margin and overall profitability. Volatility and disruption of financial and credit markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and invest in network infrastructure and therefore could also reduce demand for our products and result in a decline revenue, gross margin and overall profitability. If we overestimate demand, we may experience underutilized capacity and excess inventory levels. As such, if we underestimate demand, we may miss sales opportunities and incur additional costs for labor overtime, equipment overuse and logistical complexities. Unexpected decreases in customer demand or our inability to accurately forecast customer demand could also result in increases in our adverse purchase commitment liability and have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. 14 Table of Contents Because of our dependence and our contract manufacturers’ dependence on a few suppliers, or in some cases one supplier, for some of the components we use, as well as our dependence on a few contract manufacturers to supply a majority of our products, a loss of a supplier, a decline in the quality of these components, a shortage of any of these components, or a loss or degradation in performance of a contract manufacturer could have a material adverse effect on our business or our profitability. We depend on a few suppliers, or in some cases one supplier, for a continuing supply of the components we use in the manufacture of our products and any disruption in supply could adversely impact our financial performance. For example, we currently solely rely on Intel for the supply of some microprocessors and other components. Alternative sources of components that are procured from one supplier or a limited number of suppliers would be difficult to locate and/or would require a significant amount of time and resources to establish. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience difficulty obtaining adequate quantities of key components used in certain of our products, which have resulted and may result in delayed or lost sales. In addition, current economic conditions expose us to an increased risk of vendor insolvency, which, given our reliance upon a limited supply base, could result in an inability to procure adequate quantities of materials and components to meet our customers’ demand and/or ability to procure the quality of materials and components our customers require. We also rely on contract manufacturers. In 2008, contract manufacturers provided approximately 85% of all of our unit volume, most of which was attributable to Foxconn and Jabil. Furthermore, we intend to continue transferring manufacturing capabilities to our contract manufacturers in the future, and there is no guarantee that these transitions will be successful and timely. In addition, if these third party manufacturers fail to adequately perform, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Among other things, inadequate performance by our contract manufacturers could include the production of products that do not meet our quality standards or schedule and delivery requirements and could cause us to manufacture products internally or seek additional sources of manufacturing. Additionally, if our contract manufacturers are responsible for a patent or copyright infringement (including through the supply of counterfeit parts), we may or may not be able to hold them responsible and we may incur costs in defending claims or providing remedies. Such infringements may also cause our customers to abruptly discontinue selling the impacted products, which would adversely affect our net sales of those products, and could affect our customer relationships more broadly. In addition, alternative internal or external sources of manufacturing for our products could require significant time and resources to establish or transition. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. Similarly, if there are changes to technology requirements, it can render our products and technologies uncompetitive. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may not be able to successfully develop and market these new products; the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers; and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect the demand for our products. These types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our profitability and financial condition, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin, and requiring us to recognize and record impairments of our assets. 15 Table of Contents Competition in the market for embedded systems is intense, and if we lose our market share, our revenues and profitability could decline. We face competition in the design of embedded solutions from a number of sources. Our principal competition remains the internal design resources of our own customers. Many of our customers retain the ability to design embedded solutions in-house. In order to achieve design wins and receive subsequent orders, we must convince our customers of the benefits associated with using our design services and solutions rather than solutions designed by their in-house personnel. While we believe that many of our customers will increase the proportion of their solutions sourced from merchant suppliers, we will need to continue to demonstrate the benefits of our solutions relative to similar products that could be developed by our customers’ internal personnel in order to successfully execute our strategy. In addition, consolidation of our customers can cause material changes in their use of third parties to realize new product designs. We also compete with a number of companies and divisions of companies that focus on providing embedded solutions, including, but not limited to, Advantech Co., AudioCodes, a division within Emerson, a division within General Electric Company, Hewlett-Packard, Interphase, IBM, Kontron AG, Mercury Computer Systems, Movius, and Sun Microsystems. Because the embedded systems market is growing, the market is attracting new non-traditional competitors. These non-traditional competitors include contract manufacturers that provide design services and Asian-based original design manufacturers. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have a number of significant advantages over us, including: • a longer operating history; • greater name recognition and marketing power; • preferred vendor status with our existing and potential customers; • significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, which allow them to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements; • broader product and service offering to provide more complete and valued solutions; and • lower cost structures which, among other things, could include different accounting principles relative to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Furthermore, existing or potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships with each other or with third parties or adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. As a result of increased competition, we could encounter significant pricing pressures and/or suffer losses in market share. These pricing pressures could result in significantly lower average selling prices for our products. We may not be able to offset the effects of any price reductions with an increase in the number of customers, cost reductions or otherwise. In addition, many of the industries we serve, such as the communications industry, are encountering market consolidation, or are likely to encounter consolidation in the near future, which could result in increased pricing pressure and additional competition thus weakening our position or causing delays in new design wins and their associated production. Acquisitions and partnerships may be more costly or less profitable than anticipated and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Future acquisitions and partnerships may involve the use of significant amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity or equity-linked securities, issuances of debt and amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives. We may also be required to record a charge against earnings upon consummation of the 16 Table of Contents acquisition in respect of the value of an acquired business’ technology that does not meet the accounting definition of “completed technology.” Moreover, to the extent that any proposed acquisition or strategic investment is not favorably received by shareholders, analysts and others in the investment community, the price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions or strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • unanticipated liabilities; • performance by the acquired business below our expectations; and • issues with meeting the needs of acquired customers. In the event that we make an acquisition or enter into a partnership and we are unable to successfully integrate operations, technologies, products or personnel that we acquire, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may expend additional resources without receiving a related benefit from strategic alliances with third parties. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, restructuring and other charges, the amounts of which are difficult to predict accurately. From time to time, we seek to optimize our operational capabilities and efficiencies and focus our efforts and expertise through business restructurings. In the future we may decide to further restructure our operations, and possible adverse consequences related to such actions may include various charges for such items as idle capacity, disposition costs, severance costs, loss of propriety information and in-house knowledge. We may be unsuccessful in any of our current or future efforts to restructure our business. Our restructuring activities may have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our international operations expose us to additional political, economic and regulatory risks not faced by businesses that operate only in the United States. In 2008 and 2007, as measured by delivery destination, we derived 1.6% and 2.1%, respectively, of our revenues from Canada and Mexico, 37.0% and 40.6%, respectively, of our revenues from EMEA and 30.5% and 26.8%, respectively, from Asia Pacific. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 78% of our unit volume consisted of products manufactured by our China contract manufacturer. During 2006, we completed the acquisition of Convedia, which includes significant operations in Burnaby, British Columbia. Also, in September 2007, we acquired assets from Intel that include operations in Malaysia. In January 2008, we opened an office in Penang, Malaysia, which houses operational staff to support our Malaysian contract manufacturer as well as a small group of support and design engineers. As a result of all these activities, we are subject to worldwide economic and market conditions risks generally associated with global trade, such as fluctuating exchange rates, tariff and trade policies, domestic and foreign tax policies, foreign governmental regulations, political unrest, wars and other acts of terrorism and changes in other economic conditions. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. Additionally, some of our sales to overseas customers are made under export licenses that must be obtained from the U.S. Department of Commerce. Protectionist trade legislation in either the United States or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, export compliance laws, trade restrictions resulting from war or terrorism, or other trade policies could adversely affect our ability to sell or to manufacture in international markets. Additionally, U.S. federal and state 17 Table of Contents agency restrictions imposed by the Buy American Act or the Trade Agreement Act may apply to our products manufactured outside the United States. Furthermore, revenues from outside the United States are subject to inherent risks, including the general economic and political conditions in each country. As a result of the recent financial crisis and tightening of the credit markets, our customers and suppliers may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair our customers’ ability to make timely payments to us and could cause key suppliers to delay shipments and face serious risks of insolvency. These risks, among others, could adversely affect our results of operations or financial position. Our ability to procure contracts, maintain and increase revenues in foreign markets may be negatively impacted by increasing protectionism of foreign governments. Some foreign governments have come under increased pressure to protect their domestic economy and national security. Economic and security concerns have resulted in increasing protectionism that excludes foreign market participants from successfully procuring contracts and gaining sales in foreign markets. As a result, our revenues could decrease and business and operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to generate sufficient income in the future, we may not be able to fully utilize our net deferred tax assets or support our current levels of intangible assets on our balance sheet. We cannot provide assurance that we will generate sufficient taxable income to fully utilize our net deferred tax assets, which were $56.4 million as of December 31, 2008. We may not generate sufficient taxable income due to earning lower than forecasted net income or incurring charges associated with unusual events, such as restructurings and acquisitions. Accordingly, we may record a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets if our expectations of future taxable income are not achieved. On the other hand, if we generate taxable income in excess of our expectations, the valuation allowance may be reduced accordingly. We also cannot provide assurance that future income will support the carrying amount of our remaining intangible assets, which were $19.8 million as of December 31, 2008, and therefore, we may incur an impairment charge in the future. Our products for embedded solutions are based on industry standards, which are continually evolving, and any failure to conform to these standards or lack of success of these standards could have a substantial negative impact on our revenues and profitability. In addition, these standards could take longer to be deployed or may not be deployed at all. We develop and supply a mix of perfect fit (custom) and standards-based products. The industry standards upon which standards-based products for embedded computing are based are continually evolving. Our future success in these products will depend, in part, upon the success of these standards in the market and our capacity to invest in, and successfully develop and introduce new products based on emerging industry standards. Reduced market acceptance of these standards and our inability to invest in or conform to these standards could render parts of our product portfolio uncompetitive, unmarketable or obsolete. As new standards are developed for our addressable markets, we may be unable to successfully invest in, design and manufacture new products that address the needs of our customers or achieve substantial market acceptance. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a valuable competitive advantage or be forced to endure costly litigation. We are a technology dependent company, and our success depends on developing and protecting our intellectual property. We rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property. At the same time, our products are complex and are often not patentable in their entirety. We also license intellectual property from third parties and rely on those parties to maintain and protect their technology. We cannot be certain that our actions will protect our proprietary rights. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. If we are unable to adequately protect our technology, or if we are unable to continue to obtain or maintain licenses for protected technology 18 Table of Contents from third parties, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, some of our products are now designed, manufactured and sold outside of the United States. Despite the precautions we take to protect our intellectual property, this international exposure may reduce or limit protection of our intellectual property, which is more prone to design piracy outside of the United States. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes to the inputs used to value our share based awards, could adversely affect our operating results. In accordance with SFAS 123R, Share-Based Payment, we are required to recognize the fair value of stock options and other share-based payment compensation to employees as compensation expense in the statement of income. Option pricing models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price, stock price volatility, expected life and forfeiture rate of such options. We base our estimates on historical experience as well as other assumptions management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time of updating our assumptions. Accordingly, actual results may differ significantly from these estimates, which could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. Given the unpredictable nature and current significant volatility of the “Black-Scholes” variables and other management assumptions such as number of options to be granted, underlying strike price and associated income tax impact, share based payment costs may differ from estimates as well as increase in future periods. Total share-based compensation expense decreased for the year end December 31, 2008, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, however our stock price volatility has increased during the fourth quarter of 2008, which along with unfavorable changes in the other assumptions used to value our share based payment arrangements could result in future increased costs. Any such increase will be driven by significant fluctuations to the inputs used in applying our Black-Scholes valuation model, which may have a material impact on our operating results. Decreased effectiveness of share-based payment awards could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of share-based payment awards as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to retain employees and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. In accordance with SFAS 123R, we began recording charges to earnings for stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2006. As a result, we have and will continue to incur increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs making it more expensive for us to grant share-based payment awards to employees in the future. Like other companies, we have reviewed our equity compensation strategy in light of the current regulatory and competitive environment and have decided to reduce the total number of options granted to employees and the number of employees who receive share-based payment awards. Due to this change in our stock-based compensation strategy, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had 2.1 million outstanding stock options awarded to our employees with an average grant price of $15.46. In addition, approximately 97% of outstanding options were issued at a price above the closing price of our stock on December 31, 2008. If our stock price continues to decline, our stock option program will become ineffective as an incentive to retain key employees. 19 Table of Contents We rely on our key management and depend on the recruitment and retention of qualified personnel, and our failure to attract and retain such personnel could seriously harm our business. A small number of key executives manage our business. Their departure could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, due to the specialized nature of our business, our future performance is highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales and management personnel for our operations. Competition for personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our failure to compete for these personnel could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if incentive programs we offer are not considered desirable by current and prospective employees, we could have difficulty retaining or recruiting qualified personnel. If we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, our product development, and marketing and sales could be harmed. As of December 31, 2008, we had 972,000 outstanding stock options awarded to our executive management team with an average grant price of $14.68. As the average grant price of our outstanding options is greater than our current stock price, our stock option program may become less effective as an incentive to retain our current management team. Our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting do not guarantee the absence of error or fraud. Disclosure controls are procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls are also designed to ensure that the information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Internal controls over financial reporting (“Internal Controls”) are procedures which are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Our management, including our CEO and CFO, do not expect that our disclosure controls or Internal Controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 20 Table of Contents Oregon corporate law, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could prevent or discourage a third party from acquiring us even if the change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions: • authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 5,663,952 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without prior shareholder approval, which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of outstanding shares of preferred stock or common stock; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of shareholders to elect director candidates; and • limit the ability of shareholders to take action by written consent, thereby effectively requiring all common shareholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our common shareholders. In addition, if our common stock is acquired in specified transactions deemed to constitute “control share acquisitions,” provisions of Oregon law condition the voting rights that would otherwise be associated with those common shares upon approval by our shareholders (excluding, among other things, the acquirer in any such transaction). Provisions of Oregon law also restrict, subject to specified exceptions, the ability of a person owning 15% or more of our common stock to enter into any “business combination transaction” with us. The foregoing provisions of Oregon law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and value of our convertible notes. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities in the public markets could depress the market price of our common stock, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 2013 convertible senior notes outstanding. The price of our common stock could be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity which we expect to occur involving our common stock. The capped call transaction may affect the value of our common stock. The capped call transaction, which we entered into with a hedge counterparty in connection with the issuance of our 2013 convertible senior notes, is expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes in the event that the market value per share of our common stock, as measured under the terms of the capped call transaction, at the time of exercise is greater than the strike price of the capped call transaction, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the notes and is subject to certain adjustments similar to those contained in the 2013 convertible senior notes. If, however, the market value per share of our common stock exceeds the cap price of the capped call transaction, as measured under the terms of the capped call transaction, the dilution mitigation under the capped call transaction will be limited, which means that there would be dilution to the extent that the then market value per share of our common stock exceeds the cap price of the capped call transaction. 21 Table of Contents In connection with hedging the capped call transaction, the hedge counterparty or its affiliates: • expect to purchase our common stock and/or enter into various derivatives and/or enter into various derivatives transactions with respect to our common stock; and • may enter into or unwind various derivatives and/or purchase or sell our common stock in secondary market transactions. These activities could have had the effect of increasing or preventing a decline in the price of our common stock concurrently with or following the pricing of the 2013 convertible senior notes and could have the effect of decreasing the price of our common stock during the period immediately prior to a conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes. The hedge counterparty or its affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions in relation to the capped call transaction from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the notes by purchasing and selling our common stock, other of our securities, or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. In addition, we intend to exercise options we hold under the capped call transaction whenever 2013 convertible senior notes are converted. In order to unwind its hedge positions with respect to those exercised options, the counterparty or affiliates thereof expect to sell our common stock in secondary market transactions or unwind various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock during the period immediately prior to conversion of the 2013 convertible senior notes. We have also agreed to indemnify the hedge counterparty and affiliates thereof for losses incurred in connection with a potential unwinding of their hedge positions under certain circumstances. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. If the economic viability of our investment bank (UBS AG) deteriorates, we may incur permanent impairment charges which could negatively affect the company’s financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. We currently hold investments in auction rate securities (“ARS”), which are highly rated debt instruments with a long-term nominal maturity. The majority of our ARS represent interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of government-backed student loans with Standard and Poors (“S&P”) AAA ratings or Moody’s Investor Service (“Moody’s”) Aaa ratings at the time of purchase. These investments had previously been classified as available-for-sale investments. Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value, and unrealized holding gains and losses are recorded, net of tax, as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Between December 31, 2007 and February 7, 2008, we sold at par value $10.0 million in ARS of the total ARS balance of $72.8 million which was held at December 31, 2007. During the first quarter of 2008, due to liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, our remaining portfolio of ARS experienced multiple failed auctions as the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. An auction failure, which is not a default in the underlying debt instrument, occurs when there are more sellers than buyers at a scheduled interest rate auction date and parties desiring to sell their auction rate securities are unable to do so. When an auction fails, the interest rate is adjusted according to the provisions of the associated security agreement, which may result in an interest rate that is higher than the interest rate the issuer pays in connection with successful auctions. We will not be able to liquidate the investments until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside the auction process, the securities are called or refinanced by the issuer, or the securities mature. Due to the uncertainty of when we will be able to liquidate the investments, we reclassified the investments to long-term assets during the first quarter of 2008. 22 Table of Contents During August of 2008, UBS AG, the parent company of the securities firm with which we hold our ARS, announced an offer to its clients holding ARS. Under this offer, UBS AG would issue Auction Rate Securities Rights to us. Subsequently, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we accepted the offer from UBS AG, which gave us a non-transferable right to require the bank to purchase, at par value, $62.7 million in ARS at any time between June 30, 2010 and June 30, 2012. The agreement allows UBS AG, to purchase the ARS before than June 30, 2010, but it is under no obligation to do so. If the bank has not purchased the investments by June 30, 2010, we plan to exercise our non-transferable right to require the purchase at that time. In addition, under the terms of the offer, we also became eligible for a demand line of credit of up to 75% of the market value of our ARS until the time of purchase. As of December 31, 2008, we had drawn $39.5 million under the terms of this agreement. As a result of accepting the settlement right from UBS AG, in accordance with our policy as well as the provisions of SFAS No. 115, we transferred our ARS from available-for-sale to trading securities during the fourth quarter of 2008, as we plan to sell them on June 30, 2010. At the time of transfer, we recognized, in earnings, an unrealized loss in the amount of $11.5 million, based on our estimated valuation of our ARS at that time. Concurrently, we recognized, in earnings, an unrealized gain in the amount of $11.1 million, associated with our acceptance of the settlement right from UBS. This gain was due to our election of the fair value option under SFAS No. 159 – “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” upon initial recognition of this right. The fair value of both the settlement right and the ARS were derived based on estimates of their respective discounted cash flows. We considered various inputs to estimate future cash flows for our ARS at December 31, 2008, including the time believed to allow the market for such investments to recover, projected estimates of future interest income, as well premiums designed to account for liquidity and credit risks associated with our ARS holdings. For our non-transferable right, we considered inputs such as the issuer’s credit quality, expected term, and estimates of future risk free rates. Our valuation of both components of our ARS are contingent upon the financial viability of our investment bank and accordingly, we have assigned a credit risk component to our valuations based on market data available at the time of valuation. However, if market conditions change and our investment bank is unable to fulfil its commitment, we could incur a permanent impairment charge for the fair value assigned to our settlement right, which would materially and adversely affect our operating results and overall financial condition. Additionally, the inputs used in our valuation are based on managements’ estimates at the time of valuation and require significant judgment. If any of these inputs vary or market conditions change significantly, actual results may differ and our overall financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Conversion of our convertible senior notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders, including holders who have previously converted their convertible senior notes. Upon conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes, some or all of the ownership interests of existing shareholders may be diluted. Although the capped call transaction is expected to reduce potential dilution upon conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes, the conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes could still have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the cap price of the capped call. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion of our 2013 convertible senior notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. There are a number of trends and factors affecting our markets, including economic conditions in the United States, Europe and globally, which are beyond our control. These trends and factors may result in increasing upward pressure on the costs of products and an overall reduction in demand. There are trends and factors affecting our markets and our sources of supply that are beyond our control and may negatively affect our cost of sales. Such trends and factors include: adverse changes in the cost of raw commodities and increasing freight, energy, and labor costs in developing regions such as China. Our business 23 Table of Contents strategy has been to provide customers with faster time-to-market and greater value solutions in order to help them compete in an industry that generally faces downward pricing pressure. In addition, our competitors have in the past lowered, and may again in the future lower, prices in order to increase their market share, which would ultimately reduce the price we may realize from our customers. If we are unable to realize prices that allow us to continue to compete on this basis of performance, our profit margin, market share, and overall financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Other Risks Related to Our Business Other risk factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the mix of products sold, changes in regulatory and tax legislation, changes in effective tax rates, inventory risks due to changes in market demand or our business strategies, potential litigation and claims arising in the normal course of business, credit risk of customers and other risk factors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 