ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this filing deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our company. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose a part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Operations Our business plan and technologies are unproven. We have generated minimal revenues from our operation, and incurred substantial operating losses since our inception. We have very limited cash resources. Since June 2003, we have experienced operating losses and negative cash flows. We incurred an operating loss of approximately $10,509,746 for the year ended December 31, 2007; an operating loss of approximately $10,093,879 for the year ended December 31, 2006, and an operating loss of approximately $13,147,446 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2007, is approximately $69,654,122. Moreover, our business plan is unproven and we cannot assure you that we will ever achieve profitability or, if we achieve profitability, that it will be sustainable. The income potential of our businesses is unproven, and our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. We anticipate increased expenses as we continue to expand and improve our infrastructure, invest in or develop additional products, make acquisitions, develop our technology, expand our sales and ma rketing efforts and pursue additional industry relationships. Moreover, the acceptance of the products that we offer is uncertain, including acceptance by the healthcare and transportation security scanning markets. During the period of January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007, the Company raised $169,300 from the exercise of employee stock options, received $100,000 from a promissory note, received $815,641 net proceeds from the exercise of common stock purchase warrants, received gross proceeds of $2,550,000 (net proceeds of $2,540,000 after payment of sales commissions to a broker) from the issuance of common stock and warrants in a private placement offering, and completed the second closing of its Series A Debenture and Series D Warrant financing (the debenture financing). Gross proceeds from the second closing were $2,575,000, with net proceeds of $2,217,747 (after payment of sales commissions to a broker and related transaction costs). In addition, the Company repaid: (i) $100,000 in principal repayment to Mr. Trudnak, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, towards his outstanding non-interest bearing loans, with the remain ing amount outstanding being $202,000, and (ii) $800,000 in principal repayment to a bridge note holder. Management believes that the cash balance of $101,136 at December 31, 2007, and subsequently $29,079 of collections on outstanding trade receivables, $15,000 received from the exercise of stock options, $4,850,000 received from the sale of securities, and outstanding subscriptions receivable of $1,650,000 due on or about May 30, 2008, to be sufficient to fund the Company’s operations, absent any cash flow from operations, until approximately the end of February 2009. The Company is currently spending approximately $480,000 per month on operations and the continued research and development of our 3i technologies and products. Although there can be no assurance, management believes that with the cash balance and other sources of funds received to-date, the Company may not require additional financing to fund the Company’s existing operations through December 31, 2008. This assumes that the Company will be unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow to fund its operations during this period. Also, this assumes that holders of our outstanding debentures convert such debentures into shares of our common stock prior to November 7, 2008, the date we are required to pay the principal amount of such debentures. We may be required to raise additional capital through an equity or debt financing or though bank borrowing, in the event the debenture holders do not convert such debentures, partially convert such debentures, or effect the buy-in provision of the warrants related to the de bentures. We are also seeking research grant funding from sources in connection with the development of our Medical CAD product. There can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in its efforts to secure such additional financing, any bank borrowing or any grant funding. During fiscal 2007, the Company’s total stockholders’ deficit increased by $4,344,347 to $7,343,647. Notwithstanding the foregoing discussion of management’s expectations regarding future cash flows, the Company’s deepening insolvency continues to increase the uncertainties related to its continued existence. Both management and the Board of Directors are carefully monitoring the Company’s cash flows and financial position in consideration of these increasing uncertainties and the needs of both creditors and stockholders. We have a severe working capital deficit and, in addition to proceeds from financings, we continue to have outstanding loans from our chief executive officer and deferrals of salaries by our executive officers and a consultant to indirectly continue to fund operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had a working capital deficit of approximately $6,352,406. During 2007, our revenue generating activities had not produced sufficient funds for profitable operations and we have incurred operating losses since inception. During 2007, although we have obtained cash from certain financings, we continue to have outstanding loans from our chief executive officer of approximately $202,000, and deferrals of salaries of our executive officers and a consultant in the amount of $570,452. Dilutive effect of conversion of Series A 10% Senior Convertible Debentures and exercise of Series D Warrants and Midtown placement agent’s warrants. Under a Securities Purchase Agreement, dated November 3, 2006, between the Company and certain institutional accredited investors, the Company sold an aggregate of $5,150,000 in principal amount of our Series A Debentures and Series D Common Stock Purchase Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 4,453,709 shares of our common stock. The Company issued an aggregate of $2,575,000 in principal amount of Series A Debentures and 4,453,709 Series D Warrants at a first closing held on November 8, 2006, and, due to the conversion feature embedded in the debentures and the warrants, the transaction was recognized as a liability under generally accepted accounting principles. Due to milestone-related adjustments, the exercise price and the maximum number of shares to be issued under the debentures are indeterminable as of December 31, 2007 and, as the debentures are currently in default and otherwise due November 7, 2008, and given the C ompany’s uncertain ability to share-settle these warrant contracts due to the buy-in provisions, all liabilities for warrants related to the debentures are classified as current. The Company issued an additional $2,575,000 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures at a second closing held April 12, 2007, following the effectiveness of a registration statement registering the shares of our common stock underlying the Series A Debenture and Series D Warrants. The proceeds from the second closing were allocable to the embedded conversion features of the Series A Debentures and Series D Warrants, and are recognizable as a liability under generally accepted accounting principles. One-half of the Series D Warrants became exercisable on November 8, 2006 (2,226,854 warrants), and the remaining one-half became exercisable on April 12, 2007 (2,226,855 warrants). The Series D Warrants and the Placement Agent’s Warrants issued as compensation in the offering to Midtown Partners & Co. , LLC, may be exercised via a cashless exercise if certain conditions are met. The Company considered Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 00-19 (EITF 00-19), “Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock,” and concluded that there were insufficient shares to share settle the contracts. The Series D Warrants that became exercisable at the first closing will expire on November 8, 2011, and those related to the second closing will expire in April 12, 2012. The initial conversion price of our Series A 10% Senior Convertible Debentures was $1.15634 subject to certain adjustments. On May 18, 2007, the conversion price of the Series A Debentures and the exercise price of the Series D Warrants held by investors and Placement Agent’s Warrants issued as compensation to Midtown Partners & Co., LLC, were reset to a price of $0.6948 per share effective October 1, 2007. We may be required to further re-set the conversion or exercise price of such debentures and warrants and to issue additional shares in the event the price re-set provisions of the Series A Debentures and Series D Warrants are triggered. As of December 31, 2007, holders of our Series A Debentures have converted an aggregate of $1,921,795 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures and $3,228,205 in principal amount remains unconverted. A holder of our Series D Warrants exercised an aggregate of 864,798 of such warrants and we issued an aggregate of 864,798 Class E Warrants as an inducement for such exercise. The Class E Warrants are exercisable for a period of five years at an exercise price of $1.17 per share. Furthermore, as of the filing of this report, approximately 792,742 warrants (including the currently exercisable placement agent warra nts issued to Midtown Partners and Co. LLC, in connection with our debenture and warrant financing and the Class F Warrants) may be exercised pursuant to the cashless exercise provisions of such warrants which may be subsequently resold as “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Increased sales volume of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to drop. We have incurred substantial debt which could affect our ability to obtain additional financing and may increase our vulnerability to business downturns. Additionally, as disclosed below, we may be in default under the debenture agreements. On November 3, 2006, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with certain institutional and accredited investors under which we agreed to issue debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $5,150,000, of which we received an aggregate of $2,575,000 at a first closing on November 8, 2006, and the remaining $2,575,000 at a second closing on April 12, 2007. The principal amount of the debentures will be due November 7, 2008. On the date of issuance, the debentures were convertible into shares of our common stock at a price of $1.15634, subject to anti-dilution and price re-set provisions. On May 18, 2007, the conversion price of the Series A Debentures and the exercise price of the Series D Warrants and Placement Agent’s Warrants were reset to a price of $0.6948 per share effective November 12, 2007, and may be further reset in the event we do not meet certain milestones set forth in the debentures and war rants. As of December 31, 2007, holders of our Series A Debentures have converted an aggregate of $1,921,795 in principal amount of the Series A Debentures and $3,228,205 in principal amount remains unconverted and is due as of November 7, 2008. Due to milestone-related adjustments, the exercise price and the maximum number of shares to be issued under the debentures are indeterminable as of December 31, 2007 and, as the debentures are due November 7, 2008 and may be currently in default, all liabilities for warrants are classified as current given the Company’s uncertain ability to share-settle the contracts. During August through September 2006, we issued bridge notes in the principal amount of $1,100,000 that were initially due six months after the date of issuance. The bridge notes were extended as they became due in February and March 2007. During 2007, $800,000 in principal was paid and $300,000 was converted to equity. Also, in December 2007, we issued a promissory note in the principal amount of $100,000 that is due upon closing of a financing. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with substantial indebtedness, including that we are required to dedicate a portion of our cash flows from operations to pay debt service costs; it may be more expensive and difficult to obtain additional financing; we are more vulnerable to economic downturns; and if we default under our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to repay any accrued interest or outstanding principal. We did not make certain interest payments due under our Series A Debentures and may be deemed to be in default. Also, we may be deemed to be in non-compliance with a negative covenant under the debentures. We did not make timely payment of the interest due under our Series A 10% Senior Convertible Debentures on January 1, 2008. However, the Company has paid all of the interest and late fees due to debenture holders as of April 8, 2008. The debentures provide that any default in the payment of interest, which default is not cured within five trading days of the receipt of notice of such default or ten trading days after the Company becomes aware of such default, will be deemed an event of default. If an event of default occurs under the debentures, the debenture holders may elect to require the Company to make immediate repayment of the mandatory default amount, which equals the sum of (i) the greater of either (a) 120% of the outstanding principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued but unpaid interest, or (b) the outstanding principal amount plus accrued but unpaid interest divided by the conversion price on the date the mandatory default amount is either (1) demanded or otherwise due or (2) paid in full, whichever has the lower conversion price, multiplied by the variable weighted average price of the common stock on the date the mandatory default amount is either demanded or otherwise due, whichever has the higher variable weighted average price, and (ii) all other amounts, costs, expenses, and liquidated damages due under the debentures. Also, interest under the debentures accrues at a rate of 18% per annum or the maximum amount allowed under the law and the Company may be subject to a late fee equal to the lesser of 18% per annum or the maximum rate permitted by law. As of the date of this report, the debenture holders have not made an election requiring immediate repayment of the mandatory amount, although there can be no assurance they will not do so. In anticipation of such an election and measured as of December 31, 2007, the additional amount due is approximately $645,641, and is recorded as an increase to the carrying value of the debentures. Our debentures include a negative covenant prohibiting us from incurring any indebtedness except as permitted under the debenture to include debt that is expressly subordinate to the debentures pursuant to a written subordination agreement acceptable to the holders of the debentures. In December 2007, we issued a promissory note to an investor that did not include an agreement subordinating the note to the debentures. The debentures provide that, if we fail to materially observe or perform any covenant or agreement in the debentures, the holders of our debentures may send us a notice of default. If we do not cure a default within the earlier of five trading days of the receipt of such notice or within 10 trading days of the date we become aware of such failure, we could be deemed to be in default under our debentures. We have not received any notice from a debenture holder. Moreover, the holder of the note subseq uently converted the note into our common stock and warrants. Although there can be no assurance, we believe we have materially observed the covenants under the debentures and that no event of default has occurred as a result of the issuance of the promissory note. Our certifying officers evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005, as of March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006, December 31, 2006, September 30, 2007, and December 31, 2007, and concluded that our disclosure controls were not effective and that we had certain weaknesses in our internal controls over timely reporting. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (the “Certifying Officers”) are responsible for establishing and maintaining our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)). The Certifying Officers designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under their supervision, to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified by the SEC’s rules and forms, and is made known to management (including the Certifying Officers) by others within the Company, including its subsidiaries. We regularly evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls quarterly in our Forms 10-Q and annually in our Forms 10-K. In completing such reporting, we disclose, as appropriate, any significant change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent fiscal period that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. As we disclosed in our 2005 and 2006 Form 10-K, this Form 10-K, and our Forms 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006, September 30, 2006, and September 30, 2007, our Certifying Officers concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the periods covered by such reports. We also disclosed that there were certain material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Management (including the Certifying Officers) has undertaken specific measures to cure or mitigate the ineffective controls and procedures identified in our Exchange Act filings. While management is responsible for establishing and maintaining our disclosure controls and procedures and has taken steps to ensure that the disclosure controls are effective and free of “significant deficiencies” and/or “material weaknesses,” the ability of management to implement the remediation of such weaknesses and deficiencies and the inherent nature of our business and rapidly changing environment may affect management’s ability to be successful with this initiative. Current shareholdings may be diluted if we make future equity issuances or if outstanding debentures, warrants, and options are exercised for or converted into shares of common stock. “Dilution” refers to the reduction in the voting effect and proportionate ownership interest of a given number of shares of common stock as the total number of shares increases. Our issuance of additional stock, convertible preferred stock and convertible debt may result in dilution to the interests of shareholders and may also result in the reduction of your stock price. The sale of a substantial number of shares into the market, or even the perception that sales could occur, could depress the price of the common stock. Also, the exercise of warrants and options may result in additional dilution. The holders of outstanding options, warrants and convertible securities have the opportunity to profit from a rise in the market price of the common stock, if any, without assuming the risk of ownership, with a resulting dilution in the interests of other shareholders. We may find it more difficult to raise additional equity capital if it should be needed for our business while the options, warrants and convertible securities are outstanding. At any time at which the holders of the options, warrants or convertible securities might be expected to exercise or convert them, we would probably be able to obtain additional capital on terms more favorable than those provided by those securities. Also, some holders of the options and warrants have piggy back registration rights requiring us to register their shares underlying such options and warrants in any registration statement we file under the Securities Act. The cost to us for such required registration may be substantial. We may face competition from other developers or sellers of imaging and radiology technology and baggage screening technology. While the market for imaging and radiology technology is highly fragmented, we face competition from other companies which are developing products that are expected to be competitive with our products. We also face potential competition from other companies developing baggage screening technology. Business in general is highly competitive, and we compete with both large multinational solution providers and smaller companies. Some of our competitors have more capital, longer operating and market histories, and greater resources than we have, and may offer a broader range of products and at lower prices than we offer. We may undertake acquisitions which pose risks to our business. As part of our growth strategy, we have and may in the future acquire or enter into joint venture arrangements with, or form strategic alliances with complimentary businesses. Any such acquisition, investment, strategic alliance or related effort will be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in such transactions. These risks may include: · Difficulty of identifying appropriate acquisition candidates; · Paying more than the acquired company is worth; · Difficulty in assimilating the operations of the new business; · Costs associated with the development and integration of the operations of the new entity; · Existing business may be disrupted; · Entering markets in which we have little or no experience; · Accounting for acquisitions could require us to amortize substantial intangible assets (goodwill), adversely affecting our results of operations; · Inability to retain the management and key personnel of the acquired business; · Inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; or · Customer attrition with respect to customers acquired through the acquisition. We cannot assure you that we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems associated with any acquisition, investment, strategic alliances, or related efforts. Also, if we use our common stock in connection with an acquisition, your percentage ownership in us will be reduced and you may experience additional dilution. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed uncertainty regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might occur if we are unable to continue in business as a going concern. Investor confidence in the price of our stock may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As an SEC registrant, we are subject to the rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require us to include in our annual report on Form 10-K our management’s report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal control over financial reporting (“management’s report”). In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting (“independent registered public accountant’s report”). The requirement pertaining to management’s report is effective on our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, and the requirement pertaining to the independent registered public accountant’s report is expected to first apply to the annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, although the SEC has proposed to extend the date such requirement would first apply to non-accelerated filers to December 31, 2009. Our management identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, although management is undertaking specific measures to cure or mitigate the ineffective controls and procedure s identified in our Exchange Act filings. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting, particularly that relating to revenue recognition, is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss in investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Investor confidence and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In order to comply with public reporting requirements, we must continue to strengthen our financial systems and controls, and failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to provide timely and accurate financial statements. Due to the restatements of our consolidated unaudited quarterly financial statements, included in Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30th, June 30th and March 31st of 2005, and September 30, 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm, Goodman & Company, L.L.P., has informed us that a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting exists. In addition, Goodman & Company, L.L.P., informed us that we had certain material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. They also provided us with comments and recommendations concerning improvements in our internal controls in the following areas: Information Technology for the fiscal years ended 2005 and 2006; and accounting systems for Wise Systems, Limited (UK affiliate) in fiscal 2005. Also, management is undertaking specific measures to cur e or mitigate the ineffective controls and procedures identified in our Exchange Act filings. We believe we have made significant improvements in these areas, but we will need to make continued progress. Continued improvement of our internal controls and procedures will be required in order for us to manage future growth successfully and operate effectively as a public company. Continued improvement of our internal controls, as well as compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related requirements, will be costly and will place a significant burden on management. We cannot assure you that measures already taken, or any future measures, will enable us to provide accurate and timely financial reports, particularly if we are unable to hire additional personnel in our accounting and financial department, or if we lose personnel in this area. Any failure to improve our internal controls or other problems with our financial systems or internal controls could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information, or non-compliance with SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business and stock price. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and our failure to remedy effectively the material weaknesses identified as of December 31, 2007 could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our management identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weaknesses as of December 31, 2007, consist of the following: · Several matters involving the application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles to the Company’s complex financial instruments resulted in material audit adjustments to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The adjustments were related to certain complex provisions of derivative liabilities, including our convertible debentures and warrants, and the interpretation of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 00-19 (EITF 00-19), “Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock,” and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5 “Accounting for Contingencies.” These deficiencies did not result in errors to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. · As of December 31, 2007, the Company did not have personnel with the appropriate technical accounting expertise to sufficiently address the accounting and financial reporting issues that arise from time to time with respect to these complex financial instruments. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded as of December 31, 2007, that our internal control over financial reporting were not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. We are implementing remedial measures designed to address these material weaknesses. If these remedial measures are insufficient to address these material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements, we could be required to restate our prior period financial results, our operating results may be harmed, we may be subject to class action litigation, and our common stock could be delisted from the OTC Bulletin Board or any exchange on which our common stock is then listed or quoted. For example, material weaknesses that remain unremediated could result in material post-closing adjustments in future financial statements. Any failure to address the identified material weaknesses or any a dditional material weaknesses in our internal control could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required to be included in our annual reports on Form 10-K. Internal control deficiencies could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We can give no assurance that the measures we have taken to date or any future measures will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses or additional restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or errors or to facilitate the fair presentation of our consoli dated financial statements. A determination that there is a significant deficiency or material weakness in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. Our stock price is volatile. The stock market from time to time experiences significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to drop. In addition, the market price of our common stock is highly volatile. Factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to drop include: · Fluctuations in our results of operations; · Timing and announcements of new customer orders, new products, or those of our competitors; · Any acquisitions that we make or joint venture arrangements we enter into with third parties; · Changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock; · Failure of our results of operations to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors; · Increases in the number of outstanding shares of our common stock resulting from sales of new shares, or the exercise of warrants, stock options or convertible securities; · Reluctance of any market maker to make a market in our common stock; · Changes in investors’ perception of the transportation security scanning and healthcare information technology industries generally; and · General stock market conditions. There is a limited market for our common stock. Our common stock is quoted on OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “GDTI.” As a result, relatively small trades in our stock could have disproportionate effect on our stock prices. No assurance can be made that an active market will develop for our common stock or, if it develops, that it will continue. The OTC Bulletin Board is a regulated quotation service that displays real-time quotes, last-sale prices and volume information for shares of stock that are not designated for quotation on a national securities exchange. Trades in OTC Bulletin Board quoted stocks will be displayed only if the trade is processed by an institution acting as a market maker for those shares. Although there are approximately 28 market makers for our stock, these institutions are not obligated to continue making a market for any specific period of time. Thus, there can be no assurance that any institution will be acting as a market maker for our common stock at any time. If there is no market maker for our stock and no trades in those shares are reported, it may be difficult for you to dispose of your shares or even to obtain accurate quotations as to the market price for your shares. Moreover, because the order handling rules ad opted by the SEC that apply to other listed stocks do not apply to OTC Bulletin Board quoted stock, no market maker is required to maintain an orderly market in our common stock. Accordingly, an order to sell our stock placed with a market maker may not be processed until a buyer for the shares is readily available, if at all, which may further limit your ability to sell your shares at prevailing market prices. Because we became public because of a reverse acquisition, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms or institutional investors. We became a public company through a reverse acquisition of Guardian in June 2003. Accordingly, securities analysts and major brokerage firms and securities institutions may not cover our common stock since there is no incentive to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that established brokerage firms will want to conduct any financing for us in the future. Our common stock is subject to the SEC’s Penny Stock Regulations. Our common stock is subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. These regulations define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, these rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer and the registered underwriter, current quotations for the securities, information on the limited market in penny stocks and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealers’ presumed control over the market. In addition, the broker-dealer must obtain a written statement from the customer that such disclosure information was provided and must retain such acknowledgment for at least three years. Further, monthly statements must be sent disclosing current price information for the penny stock held in the account. The penny stock rules also require that broker-dealers engaging in a transaction in a penny stock make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. The foregoing rules may materially and adversely affect the liquidity for the market of our common stock. Such rules may also affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock, the ability of holders of such securities to obtain accurate price quotations and may therefore impede the ability of holders of our common stock to sell such securities in the secondary market. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage mergers and other transactions. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us. These provisions may make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain corporate actions and could delay or prevent someone from acquiring our business. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. The use of a staggered board of directors and the ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock are traditional anti-takeover measures. These provisions may be beneficial to our management and the board of directors in a hostile tender offer, and may have an adverse impact on stockholders who may want to participate in such tender offer, or who may want to replace some or all of the members of the board of directors. Our board of directors may issue additional shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock of which 6,000 have been designated as Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, 6,000 shares as Series B Convertible Preferred Stock, and 1,000 shares as Class C Convertible Preferred Stock, none of which shares are outstanding on the date of the filing of this report. Accordingly, our board of directors may, without shareholder approval, issue one or more new series of preferred stock with rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock may have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging, an acquisition or change of control of Guardian. Although we do not have any current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock, we may do so in the future. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends of the contributions of our key management personnel, including Mr. Michael W. Trudnak, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Secretary and Treasurer, Mr. William J. Donovan, President and Chief Operating Officer, and Mr. Gregory E. Hare, our Chief Financial Officer. If we lose the services of any of such personnel we could be delayed in or precluded from achieving our business objectives. We do not have key man life insurance on any of our officers. In addition, the loss of key members of our sales and marketing teams or key technical service personnel could jeopardize our positive relations with our customers. Any loss of key technical personnel would jeopardize the stability of our infrastructure and our ability to provide the service levels our customers expect. The loss of any of our key officers or personnel could impair our ability to successfully execute our business strategy, because we substantially rely on their experience and management skills. Our directors and named executive officers own a substantial percentage of our common stock. As of April 11, 2008, our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 16.2% of our shares of common stock. Accordingly, our directors, executive officers and two most highly compensated employees are entitled to cast an aggregate of 4,939,650 votes on matters submitted to our stockholders for a vote or approximately 10.0% of the total number of votes entitled to be cast at a meeting of our stockholders. These stockholders, if they acted together, could exert substantial control over matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These matters would include the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage or prevent someone from acquiring our business. Our ability to attract and retain additional skilled personnel may impact our ability to develop our technology and attract customers in growing our business. We believe that our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain additional highly skilled technical, managerial and sales personnel, particularly in the areas of technology-based application development, business intelligence, knowledge extraction, management, product development, healthcare economics, radiology, integration and technical support, is essential to our future success. Our business requires individuals with significant levels of expertise in knowledge extraction, business operations, mathematics, quantitative analysis, and machine learning. Competition for such personnel is intense, and qualified technical personnel are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Locating candidates with the appropriate qualifications, particularly in the desired geographic location, can be costly and difficult. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strat egy, or we may need to provide higher compensation to such personnel than we currently anticipate. If we fail to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees, our ability to provide the necessary products, technologies, and services may be limited, and as a result, we may be unable to attract customers and grow our business. We have never paid a cash dividend We have not declared a cash dividend and we do not anticipate paying such dividends in the foreseeable future. Risks Related to Our Industries Changes may take place in funding for healthcare. We expect to derive a substantial portion of our revenues from sales of clinical healthcare information systems, and other related services within the healthcare industry. As a result, our success is dependent in part on political and economic conditions as they relate to the healthcare industry. Virtually all of our prospective customers in the healthcare industry are subject to governmental regulation, including Medicare and Medicaid regulation. Accordingly, our prospective customers and other entities with which we may develop a business relationship are affected by changes in such regulations and limitations in governmental spending for Medicare and Medicaid programs. Recent actions by Congress have limited governmental spending for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limited payments to hospitals and other providers under such programs, and increased emphasis on competition and other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. In addition, federal and state legislatures have considered proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state level. If enacted, these proposals could increase government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our prospective customers and other entities with which we ma y develop a business relationship. Our prospective customers and other entities with which we may develop a business relationship could react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. In addition, many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. These providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our anticipated products and services, which would negatively impact our expected operating margins. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition for customers will become more intense and the importance of acquiring each customer will become greater. Product liability claims may occur. Any failure by our products that provide applications relating to patient diagnostic procedures, and treatment plans could expose us to product liability claims for personal injury and wrongful death. Unsuccessful claims could be costly to defend and divert management time and resources. In addition, we cannot make assurances that we will have appropriate insurance available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Currently, we maintain Property, General/Umbrella Liability, Error and Omissions, and Directors and Officers insurance. We expect to seek product liability coverage upon the commercialization of our intelligent imaging informatics (“3i”) technology. Specific government regulations relating to Medicare and Medicaid may impinge on us. Many of our prospective customers and the other entities with which we may develop a business relationship operate in the healthcare industry and, as a result, are subject to governmental regulation. Because our healthcare products and services are designed to function within the structure of the healthcare financing and reimbursement systems currently in place in the United States, and because we are pursuing a strategy of developing and marketing products and services that support our customers' regulatory and compliance efforts, we may become subject to the reach of, and liability under, these regulations. The federal Anti-Kickback Law, among other things, prohibits the direct or indirect payment or receipt of any remuneration for Medicare, Medicaid and certain other federal or state healthcare program patient referrals, or arranging for or recommending referrals or other business paid for in whole or in part by the federal health care programs. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Law may result in civil and criminal sanction and liability, including the temporary or permanent exclusion of the violator from government health programs, treble damages and imprisonment for up to five years for each violation. If the activities of a customer or other entity with which we have a business relationship were found to constitute a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Law and we, as a result of the provision of products or services to such customer or entity, were found to have knowingly participated in such activities, we could be subject to sanction or liability under such laws, including exclusion from government health programs. As a result of exclusion from government health programs, our customers would not be permitted to make any payments to us. The federal Civil False Claims Act and the Medicare/Medicaid Civil Money Penalties regulations prohibit, among other things, the filing of claims for services that were not provided as claimed, which were for services that were not medically necessary, or which were otherwise false or fraudulent. Violations of these laws may result in civil damages, including treble and civil penalties. In addition the Medicare/Medicaid and other federal statutes provide for criminal penalties for such false claims. If, as a result of the provision by us of products or services to our customers or other entities with which we have a business relationship, we provide assistance with the provision of inaccurate financial reports to the government under these regulations, or we are found to have knowingly recorded or reported data relating to inappropriate payments made to a healthcare provider, we could be subject to liability under these laws. Medical device regulation may require us to obtain approval for our products. The United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) have promulgated a draft policy for the regulation of computer software products as medical devices under the 1976 Medical Device Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. To the extent that computer software is a medical device under the policy, we, as a manufacturer of such products, could be required, depending on the product, to: · register and list its products with the FDA; · notify the FDA and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing such products; or · obtain FDA approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing a product. Depending on the intended use of a device, the FDA could require us to obtain extensive data from clinical studies to demonstrate safety or effectiveness, or substantial equivalence. If the FDA requires this data, we would be required to obtain approval of an investigational device exemption before undertaking clinical trials. Clinical trials can take extended periods of time to complete. We cannot provide assurances that the FDA will approve or clear a device after the completion of such trials. In addition, these products would be subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act's general controls, including those relating to good manufacturing practices and adverse experience reporting. Although it is not possible to anticipate the final form of the FDA's policy with regard to computer software, we expect that the FDA is likely to become increasingly active in regulating computer software intended for use in healthcare settings reg ardless of whether the draft is finalized or changed. The FDA can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions like service investigation, approval, labeling and manufacturing. In addition, the FDA can impose extensive requirements governing development controls and quality assurance processes. System errors and warranties may subject us to liability. Our technology is very complex. As is the case with all complex and new systems, our product may contain errors especially when first introduced. Our technology is intended to provide information to security agencies for threat detection, and to healthcare providers for use in medical diagnosis. Therefore, users of our products may have a greater sensitivity to system errors than the market for software products generally. Failure of a system to perform in accordance with its documentation could constitute a breach of warranty and require us to incur additional expenses in order to make the system comply with the documentation. If such failure is not timely remedied, it could constitute a material breach under a contract allowing the client to cancel the contract and subject us to liability. We retain and transmit confidential information; including patient health information. A security breach could damage our reputation or result in liability. It is critical that these facilities and infrastructure remain secure and be perceived by the marketplace as secure. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches and hackers or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Despite the implementation of security measures, this infrastructure or other systems that we interface with, including the Internet and related systems, may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, hackers, improper employee or contractor access, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any compromise of our security, whether as a result of our own systems or systems that they interface with, could reduce demand for our services and products. Customer satisfaction and our business could be harmed if our business experiences delays, failures or loss of data in its systems. The occurrence of a major catastrophic event or other system failure at any of our facilities, or at any third party facility, including telecommunications provider facilities, could interrupt data processing or result in the loss of stored data, which could harm our business. We may infringe the proprietary rights of others. If any of our products violate third party proprietary rights, we may be required to reengineer our products or seek to obtain licenses from third parties to continue offering our products without substantial reengineering. Any efforts to reengineer our products or obtain licenses from third parties may not be successful, in which case we may be forced to stop selling the infringing product or remove the infringing functionality or feature. We may also become subject to damage awards as a result of infringing the proprietary rights of others, which could cause us to incur additional losses and have an adverse impact on our financial position. We do not conduct comprehensive patent searches to determine whether the technologies used in our products infringe patents held by others. In addition, product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pen ding; many of which are confidential when filed, with regard to similar technologies. Unforeseeable disruption in the economy may take place consequent to terrorism or other international events. The terrorist events of September 11, 2001, as well as new terrorists threats, the war in Iraq and the possibility of war in other areas of the Middle East, have sensitized us and many other businesses to the potential disruption that such activities can have on the economy, the business cycle and, ultimately on the financial performance of these organizations. It is impossible to know whether such terrorist or military activities will continue, and whether, and to what extent, they may cause a disruption that may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. A number of factors that affect our revenues make our future results difficult to predict, and therefore we may not meet expectations for a particular period. We believe that our revenues have the potential to vary significantly from time to time. We believe that these variations may result from many factors, including: · the timing, size and mix of orders from our major customers including, in particular, the TSA and agencies of other governments; · legislative or other government actions driven, in part, by the public’s perception of the threats facing commercial aviation, leading to fluctuations in demand for transportation security scanning products and services; · delays in product shipments caused by the inability of airports to install or integrate our products in a timely fashion; · the availability and cost of key components; · the timing of completion of acceptance testing for some of our products; · the introduction and acceptance of new products or enhancements to existing products offered by us or our competitors; · changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or our suppliers, including possible decreases in average selling prices of our products caused by customer volume orders or in response to competitive pressures; and · our sales mix to domestic and international customers. We expect to depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our future revenues. A significant portion of our quarterly and annual operating expenses is expected to be relatively fixed in nature. This means that future revenue fluctuations will cause our quarterly and annual operating results to vary substantially. We also may choose to increase spending to pursue new market opportunities, which may negatively affect our financial results. We cannot assure investors that our PinPoint product will be selected by the U.S. DHS or other countries’ security departments or address their solutions needs for threat detection, or that our Signature Mapping product will be accepted in the healthcare arena. Governmental agencies, the primary customers for our PinPoint products, are subject to budget processes which could limit the demand for these products. Substantially all of the potential customers for our PinPoint products under development to date have been public agencies or quasi-public agencies, such as the FAA, the TSA, airport authorities and manufactures of threat detection devices. Public agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints. The funding of government programs is subject to legislative appropriation. Budgetary allocations for PinPoint depend, in part, upon governmental policies, which fluctuate from time to time in response to political and other factors, including the public’s perception of the threat of commercial airline bombings. For example, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 resulted in the passage of the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001, or Transportation Security Act, mandating a small surcharge on each airline ticket purchase to fund airline security. This surcharge was suspended from June 1, 2003 to September 30, 2003. We cannot assure investors that the surcharge will not again be suspended or that the funds generated by these surcharges will be used to purchase our PinPoint products. We cannot assure investors that funds will continue to be appropriated by Congress or allocated by the TSA or other agen cies for the purchase of PinPoint product or any other such product we develop and market. Moreover, we expect that similar funding and appropriations issues will affect our ability to market and sell our PinPoint product outside the United States. Legislative actions could lead to fluctuations in demand for transportation security scanning products and services. In addition to the Congressional budgetary process, other legislation could be introduced that would impact demand for transportation security scanning products and services. In response to fluctuation in concern on the part of voters about transportation security scanning and competing homeland security demands, or for other reasons, the plans for deployment of our PinPoint product to screen baggage could be changed. Budgetary debates and delays could result in fewer PinPoint products being sold to the TSA. Governmental agencies have special contracting requirements, which create additional risks. In contracting with public agencies, we are subject to public agency contract requirements that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Future sales to public agencies will depend, in part, on our ability to meet public agency contract requirements, certain of which may be onerous or even impossible for us to satisfy. Government contracts typically contain termination provisions unfavorable to us and are subject to audit and modification by the government at its sole discretion, which subject us to additional risks. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government to unilaterally: · suspend or prevent us for a set period of time from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; · terminate our future contracts; · reduce the scope and value of our future contracts; · audit and object to our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; · control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; and · change certain terms and conditions in our contracts. The U.S. government can terminate any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination for convenience provisions generally enable us to recover only our costs incurred or committed, and settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions do not permit these recoveries and make us liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our contracts with foreign governments may contain similar provisions. In the event we enter into one or more government contracts for PinPoint, the government’s termination of any such contracts for our PinPoint product under development would harm our business. In addition, U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds annually for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year-end basis, even though contract performance may take years. Consequently, our future contracts with the TSA may only be partially funded at the outset, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the TSA only as appropriations are made by Congress for future periods. The government’s failure to fully fund one or more of the contracts for our PinPoint product under development would harm our business. Because we expect to contract with the U.S. government, we will be subject to periodic audits and reviews. Based on the results of its audits, the U.S. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In the future, government audits and reviews could result in adjustments to our revenues and cause other adverse effects, particularly to our relationship with the TSA. In addition, under U.S. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of our research and development costs, and some marketing expenses may not be reimbursable or allowed in our negotiation of fixed-price contracts. Further, because we expect to contract with the U.S. government, we will be subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which pu rely private sector companies are not. In addition, public agency contracts are frequently awarded only after formal competitive bidding processes, which are often protracted and typically contain provisions that permit cancellation in the event that funds are unavailable to the public agency. We may not be awarded any of the contracts for which we submit a bid. Even if we are awarded contracts, substantial delays or cancellations of purchases could result from protests initiated by losing bidders. Our growth depends on our introduction of new products and services, which may be costly to develop and may not achieve market acceptance. As part of our strategy for growth, we intend to develop products to address additional transportation security scanning opportunities, such as passenger, carry-on baggage and air cargo screening. We also intend to address homeland security requirements beyond aviation, such as screening at border checkpoints, government offices and transportation terminals and ports. We will be required to spend funds to develop or acquire technologies and products for these initiatives, and these initiatives may divert our development and management resources away from our core PinPoint product. In addition, we have acquired, rather than developed internally, some of our technologies in connection with our acquisitions of companies and businesses, and these technologies may not perform as we expect. The development of new products may require greater time and financial resources than we currently anticipate and, despite significant investments in rese arch and development, may not yield commercially successful products. The development of our products for explosives and weapons detection is highly complex. Successful product development and market acceptance of any new products and services that we develop depends on a number of factors, including: · our timely completion and introduction of new products; · our accurate prediction of the demand for homeland security products and the changing requirements of the homeland security industry, including certification or other required performance standards; · the availability of key components of our products; · the quality, price and operating performance of our products and those of our competitors; · our customer service capabilities and responsiveness; and · the success of our relationships with potential customers. Our PinPoint product may fail to obtain certification by the TSA. New products for transportation security scanning applications may require certification or approval by the TSA, and we believe that the TSA does not currently have standards for the certification of transportation security scanning products other than bulk explosives detection systems and explosives trace detectors, or ETD. Other products, such as metal detectors, are subject to TSA testing prior to approval. Market acceptance of new products may be limited if the TSA has not developed standards for certification or approval of such products, and even if it does develop such standards, we may be unable to obtain any such certification or approval, which could materially limit market acceptance of such products. If we fail to timely introduce new products or if these products fail to gain market acceptance, our results of operations would be harmed. In addition, even if successful in the United States, new products that we develop may not achieve market acceptance outside of the United States. Foreign governments may be unwilling to commit financial resources to purchase our new products, which would reduce our potential revenues and harm our business. Our existing PinPoint product may fail to obtain re-certification by the TSA for changes in the PinPoint system. Our existing PinPoint product can be required to be re-certified by the TSA. This can happen when a critical component is changed, or we wish to make other changes to the PinPoint systems. When this happens, the affected PinPoint model requires re-certification by the TSA. The failure or delay in gaining re-certification for an existing PinPoint product could harm our ability to continue to sell the product and recognize associated revenues. Our major potential customer, the TSA, is a part of the Department of Homeland Security, a newly created agency that has experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in its operations, which may cause delays in our receiving orders for our products from the TSA. The TSA is a relatively new agency that was created in November 2001 by the Transportation Security Act. As a result, it has experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in fulfilling its mandate as a result of delays in establishing the necessary infrastructure to operate in an efficient manner. This may result in delays in our receiving orders for our PinPoint product. Further, the TSA is now a part of the Department of Homeland Security, which was created subsequent to the creation of the TSA and is therefore in an earlier stage of formation, which may further create delays in our receiving orders as this agency is organized. Future sales of our PinPoint products will depend on the ability of airports to secure funding to build baggage handling systems and to integrate our PinPoint product into such systems, which they may not be able to do. Future sales will depend on integrating PinPoint into existing baggage and luggage handling systems within airports. If an airport is not configured for these systems, deployment of our PinPoint products may require changes in the airport infrastructure. If our PinPoint product cannot easily be integrated into existing baggage handling systems, we may experience reduced sales of our PinPoint products or these sales may be delayed. There can be no assurance that the government will continue to fund installations, integrations and reimbursements at the current level or at all. If there is a reduction in funding, we may experience reduced sales of our PinPoint products or these sales may be delayed. We believe that a substantial opportunity exists for our PinPoint system to be integrated into baggage handling systems. If airports determine, in conjunction with governmental authorities, that they will be unable or unwilling to modify or finance baggage handling systems, this opportunity may be limited. If our PinPoint product fails to detect explosives, we could be exposed to product liability and related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage, and we may lose current and potential customers. Our transportation security scanning business exposes us to potential product liability risks, which are inherent in the development, sale and maintenance of transportation security scanning products. Our software is not designed to detect, and FAA/TSA certification does not require, 100% detection of any and all explosives contained in scanned baggage. For this reason, or if our products malfunction, it is possible that explosive material could pass undetected utilizing our product, which could lead to product liability claims. There are also many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such as the reliability and competence of the customer’s operators and the training of the operators. Such liability claims are likely to exceed any product liability insurance that we may have obtained. In addition, the failure of any PinPoint product to detect explosives, even if due to operator error and not to the mechanical failure of a PinPoint product, could result in public and customer perception that our products do not work effectively, which may cause potential customers to not place orders and current customers to cancel orders already placed or to not place additional orders, any of which would harm our business and financial results. We expect to substantially depend on large orders from a limited number of customers. As a result, order cancellations from any of our customers or the failure of these customers to continue to purchase PinPoint products could have a material negative impact on our business and financial results. In any given fiscal quarter or year, our revenues will be derived from orders of multiple units of our PinPoint product from a limited number of customers. The failure of these customers, particularly the U.S. government, to purchase our PinPoint products or the cancellation of future orders would harm our business. The sales cycle for our PinPoint products is lengthy and we may expend a significant amount of effort in obtaining sales orders and not receive them. The sales cycle of our PinPoint product is expected to be lengthy due to the protracted approval process that typically accompanies large capital expenditures and the time required to install our PinPoint product. In addition, in the United States, the creation of the TSA and formation of a Department of Homeland Security, as well as budgetary debates in Congress, may result in additional delays in the purchase of our PinPoint products. During the sales cycle we may expend substantial funds and management resources but recognize no associated revenue. Our future international sales subject us to risks that could materially harm our business. It is part of our growth strategy to establish international sales. A number of factors related to our international sales and operations could adversely affect our business, including: · changes in domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; · political instability in the countries where we sell products; · possible foreign currency controls; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · our ability to protect and utilize our intellectual property in foreign jurisdictions; · tariffs, embargoes or other barriers; · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; · difficulties in obtaining and managing distributors; and · potentially negative tax consequences. Our failure to obtain the requisite licenses, meet registration standards or comply with other government export regulations, may affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products outside the United States, which could harm our business. In particular, our PinPoint product may be deemed regulated and subject to export restrictions under the U.S. Department of State regulations. Consequently, these regulations may make the product more difficult to sell to a number of countries. Compliance with government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. Exchange rate fluctuations could cause a decline in our financial condition and results of operations. In 2007, the cost of certain international currencies has increased due to fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against the Euro or other currencies. Future fluctuations in this exchange rate or other currencies could adversely affect our results in the event we make foreign sales of our products. From time to time, as and when we determine it is appropriate and advisable to do so, we will seek to mitigate the effect of exchange rate fluctuations through the use of derivative financial instruments. We cannot assure you, however, that we will continue this practice or be successful in these efforts. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological change could impair our ability to remain competitive. The transportation security scanning industry may undergo significant technological development in response to increased demand for transportation security scanning products. A fundamental shift in technology in our product markets could harm our ability to generate revenues from sales of PinPoint product and services. We anticipate that we will incur expenses in the design and initial development and marketing of new products and services. Our competitors may implement new technologies before we are able to, allowing them to provide more effective products at more competitive prices. Future technological developments could: · adversely impact our competitive position; · require write-downs of obsolete technology; · require us to discontinue production of obsolete products before we can recover any or all of our related research, development and commercialization expenses; or · require significant capital expenditures beyond those currently contemplated. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to achieve the technological advances to remain competitive and profitable, that new products and services will be developed and developed on schedule or on a cost-effective basis that anticipated markets will exist or develop for new products or services, or that our existing product and services will not become technologically obsolete. The transportation security scanning industry is highly competitive. Given the anticipated continuing demand for airport security products, competition may increase. The transportation security scanning industry is intensely competitive and we may not compete successfully. As a result of increased demand for security systems, additional companies may enter the industry. Some of our competitors, and many of the potential new entrants into the transportation security scanning industry, have financial, technical, production and other resources substantially greater than ours. We believe that some of our competitors have products undergoing TSA certification. Our failure to compete successfully could result in lost sales and could hamper our financial results. We are reliant upon third party distributors for the distribution and licensing of our PinPoint or Signature Mapping products in several domestic or foreign jurisdictions and have reduced our reliance upon our own internal sales force. During the latter half of 2006, we decided to reduce our own internal sales force and to establish a network of distributors, sales representatives and consultants to assist us in the distribution and licensing of our products domestically and in certain foreign countries, including those business relationship established during 2007. Such distributors, sales representatives and consultants have not affected any sales of our PinPoint, Signature Mapping, or Flow Point products to date and we have no assurance they will be able to affect any such sales in the future. We continue to review sales performance under certain of such arrangements and, as our agreements with such third parties expire, we may determine not to renew or we may terminate such agreements. Litigation may be necessary to enforce or defend against claims of intellectual property infringement, which could be expensive and, if we lose, could prevent us from selling our products. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, could be costly and require significant time and attention of key members of our management and technical personnel. Our domestic and international competitors, many of whom have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We have not conducted an independent review of patents issued to third parties. Because of the perceived market opportunity we face, companies possessing technology rights that they believe we might be infringing will now be much more motivated to assert infringement of their rights. These third parties may assert infringement or invalidity claims against us and litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease selling our products. Even successful defenses of patent suits can be costly and time-consuming. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable to Registrant as Registrant is not an “accelerated filer” or “large accelerated filer” as such terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act. 