Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Affecting Future Operating Results The following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and prospects for the future. If risks described below actually occur, our operating results and financial condition would likely suffer and the trading price of our common stock may fall, causing a loss of some or all of an investment in our common stock. In addition, there may be additional risks not known to us or understood by us which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and the price of our stock. We will need additional funds to conduct our planned research and development efforts. If we fail to continue to attract significant capital, we may be unable to continue to successfully develop our products. Since we began operations, we have obtained operating funds primarily by selling shares of our common stock. Based on our current plans, we believe that current cash balances will be sufficient to meet our operating needs for the next twelve months. Furthermore, the actual amount of funds that we will need will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the success of our research and development efforts, the status of our pre-clinical and clinical testing, costs relating to securing regulatory approvals and the costs and timing of obtaining new patent rights, regulatory changes, competition and technological developments in the market. An unforeseen change in these factors might increase our need for additional capital. We may need funds sooner than currently anticipated. If necessary, potential sources of additional funding could include strategic relationships, public or private sales of shares of our stock, debt, or other arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional funding when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted. If we were unable to obtain financing when needed, our business and future prospects would be materially adversely affected. Our products are in an early stage of research and development and may not be determined to be safe or effective. We are in the early stages of clinical development with respect to our RNA-based pharmaceutical products. We have devoted almost all of our resources to research and development of our product candidates, protecting our proprietary rights and establishing strategic alliances. Our potential products are in the pre-clinical or clinical stages of research and development and will require significant further research, development, clinical testing and regulatory approvals. We have no products available for sale and we do not expect to have any products available for sale for several years. Our products could be found to be ineffective or toxic, or could fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals. We have not received any significant revenues from the sale of products and we may not successfully develop marketable products that will produce sales and, given adequate margins, make us profitable. Third parties may develop superior or equivalent, but less expensive, products. We rely on U.S. government contracts to support several important R&D programs. We rely on U.S. government contracts and awards to fund several of our development programs, including those for the Ebola, Marburg, Junín and H1N1 viruses. The termination of one or more of these contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays or product failures in connection with one or more of these contracts, could negatively impact our financial condition. Furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new U.S. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. In the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed our contracts may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such a contract or subcontract. From time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, Congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. During such a period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in government procurement due to lack of funding and such delays can affect our operations during the period of delay. 10 Table of Contents In addition, U.S. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government’s convenience or for default based on performance. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts. If we fail to receive or experience delays in receiving necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our product in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to extensive regulation by the United States FDA, and by comparable agencies in other countries. The FDA and these agencies require new pharmaceutical products to undergo lengthy and detailed preclinical and clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming compliance procedures. We do not know when, or if, we will be able to submit our products for regulatory review. Even if we submit a new drug application, there may be delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, if we are able to obtain them at all. Sales of our products outside the United States will also be subject to regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and product approval. These requirements vary from country to country and could delay introduction of our products in those countries. We cannot guarantee that any of our products will receive marketing approval from the FDA or comparable foreign agencies. We expect to develop the therapeutic product candidates to treat Ebola Virus and Marburg Virus under defined regulatory pathways using the Animal Rule mechanism. This mechanism has become available only relatively recently and has been infrequently used. This process has yet to be well tested and may present challenges for gaining final regulatory approval for these product candidates. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled personnel required for our activities, our business will suffer. The loss of key employees could significantly delay the achievement of our goals. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. To date, we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. We now have added emphasis on product development in our business plan. In addition, we are building a new chemistry-led research capability in Bothell, Washington and have outsourced our large scale manufacturing capability in Corvallis, Oregon. This short term transformation of our skill base has placed additional emphasis on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be challenging and costly, and our failure to do so could harm our ability to compete and impair the outcome of our operations. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic environments are highly competitive and competing intellectual property could limit our ability to protect our products. Our success will depend in significant part on our existing patents and licenses (191 patents (domestic and foreign) issued or licensed to us and 190 (domestic and foreign) pending patent applications) and our ability to obtain additional patents in the future. We license patents from other parties for certain complementary technologies. Some of our patents on core technologies expired in 2008, including for our general PMO chemistry. Based on patented improvements and inventive additions to such core patents, however, we believe the patent protection for our products in development extends beyond 2020. We cannot be certain that pending patent applications will result in patents being issued in the United States or foreign countries. In addition, the patents that have been or will be issued may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that do not conflict with our patents. Pharmaceutical research and development is highly competitive; others may file patents first. We are aware of a patent that was issued that may provide the basis for the patent holder to assert that our drug AVI-4658 infringes on such patent. We intend to vigorously defend against any such claim if one should be asserted and believe that we may be able to invalidate some or all of the claims covered by this patent. In any case, we believe that we have freedom to operate and are moving forward with our ongoing clinical trials and drug development efforts for this drug candidate. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. The patent position of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, as well as academia, is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents. In addition, there is a substantial backlog of pharmaceutical and biotechnology patent applications at the USPTO and the approval or rejection of patents may take several years. 11 Table of Contents Our success will also depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others as well as our ability to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We may be required at times to take legal action to protect our proprietary rights and, despite our best efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the patent rights of others. We have not received any communications or other indications from owners of related patents or others that such persons believe our products or technology may infringe on their patents. Patent litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition. If we do not prevail, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain a license, our business might be materially adversely affected. To help protect our proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. However, such agreements may not provide us with adequate protection if confidential information is used or disclosed improperly. In addition, in some situations these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Further, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We depend on our partners and contractors for critical functions. Therefore, if our collaborations or strategic relationships are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. Our strategic relationships are important to our success. The discovery, development and marketing of many of our key therapeutic products are or will be dependent in large part on the efforts of our strategic partners. Our strategic partners may be unsuccessful in their attempt to develop our potential products due to circumstances that are beyond our control. The transactions contemplated by our agreements with strategic partners, including the equity purchases and cash payments, are subject to numerous risks and conditions. The occurrence of any of these events could severely harm our business. We plan to enter into relationships with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to conduct late stage clinical trials and to market our products. We also plan to use contract manufacturing for late stage clinical and commercial quantities of our products. We may be unable to enter into partnerships or other relationships at all or on favorable terms, which could impede our ability to bring our products to market. Any such partnerships, if entered into at all, may be on less than favorable terms and may not result in the successful development or marketing of our products. If we are unsuccessful in establishing advantageous clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing relationships, we are not likely to generate significant revenues and become profitable. To fully realize the potential of our products, including development, production and marketing, we may need to establish other strategic relationships. We may get unexpected positive or negative results or outcomes during any stage of product development. Clinical studies at all phases of clinical investigation, must be granted permission to proceed by the regulatory authorities and Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) or Ethics Committees (ECs) before they may start and these agencies review progress and safety information during the course of any study. Clinical studies are experiments designed to test a theory or hypothesis, and by their very nature, the result is unknown at the time the study is started, therefore, unexpected results or outcomes may occur that may provide positive or negative new information. Examples of unexpected results or outcomes that may occur include results that are either better than or not as good as predicted during hypothesis generation, including for example a result where the product performs better than expected and as a result of the clinical benefit a longer time is taken to reach a predefined clinical endpoint that is based on worsening disease factors, or the product may not demonstrate the predicted level of effectiveness in a specific study, or an unexpected serious adverse event may. These kinds of results or outcomes may result in the company voluntarily discussing the clinical study design, results and outcomes, and future development plans with the regulatory agencies, IRBs or ECs; any such discussions, changes in study designs or changes to the overall development plans may either accelerate or delay development of the product. Similarly, unexpected results or outcomes may occur in nonclinical animal studies or in manufacturing and quality control. This might also lead to changes in the developmental plan which could shorten or extend the time to a final study result. We have incurred net losses since our inception and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred a net loss of $25.2 million and $24.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $275.5 million. Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in research and development of our technology and products and from general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while building our business infrastructure. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses in the future as we continue our research and development efforts and seek to obtain regulatory approval of our products. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability to raise additional capital, complete development of our products, obtain regulatory approvals and market our products. It is uncertain when, if ever, we will become profitable. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to be successful against our competitors cannot be assured. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with a number of well-established firms performing leading-edge research for the development of new products to treat a wide range of diseases. These companies generate patents for their intellectual property rights that could preclude other companies from using similar technologies in their product development. Moreover, companies that are focused on the treatment of similar diseases are in effect competing for the same finite number of potential patients. Even if we are able to develop new products for market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively or profitably against our competitors. We may be subject to clinical trial claims and our insurance may not be adequate to cover damages. We believe we carry adequate insurance for our current product development activities. In the future, commercial sale and use of our products might expose us to the risk of clinical trial claims. Although we intend to obtain product liability insurance coverage, product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms and our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us. A product liability claim, even one without merit or for which we have substantial coverage, could result in significant legal defense costs, thereby increasing our expenses, lowering our earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. We use hazardous substances in our research activities. We use organic and inorganic solvents and reagents in our research and development efforts that are customarily used in pharmaceutical research and development. Some of these chemicals may be classified as hazardous substances, are flammable and, if exposed to human skin, can cause anything from irritation to severe burns. We receive, store, use and dispose of such chemicals in compliance with all applicable laws with containment storage facilities and contained handling and disposal safeguards and procedures. We are routinely inspected by federal, state and local governmental and public safety agencies regarding our storage, use and disposal of such chemicals, including the federal Occupational, Safety and Health Agency (“OSHA”), the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (“DEQ”) and the Washington Department of Ecology (‘DOE”) and local fire departments, without any material noncompliance issues in such inspections to date. Based on our limited use of such chemicals, the nature of such chemicals and the safeguards undertaken by the Company for storage, use and disposal, we believe we do not have any material exposure for toxic tort liability. Further, the cost of such compliance is not a material cost in our operating budget. While we do not have toxic tort liability insurance at this time, we believe our other insurance coverage is adequate to cover most liabilities that may arise from our use of such substances. If we are wrong in any of our beliefs, we could incur a liability in certain circumstances that would be material to our finances and the value of an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Share Ownership Our right to issue preferred stock, and our classified Board of Directors and Oregon Anti-Takeover laws may delay a takeover attempt and prevent or frustrate any attempt to replace or remove the then current management and Board of Director’s. Our authorized capital consists of 200 million shares of common stock and 20 million shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors, without any further vote by the shareholders, has the authority to issue preferred shares and to determine the price, preferences, rights and restrictions, including voting and dividend rights, of these shares. The rights of holders of any preferred shares that our Board of Directors may issue in the future may affect the rights of the holders of shares of common stock. For example, our Board of Directors may allow the issuance of preferred shares with more voting rights, preferential dividend payments or more favorable rights upon dissolution than the shares of common stock or special rights to elect directors. In addition, we have a “classified” Board of Directors, which means that approximately one-half of our directors are eligible for election each year. Therefore, if shareholders wish to change the composition of our Board of Directors, it could take at least two years to remove a majority of the existing directors or to change all directors. Having a classified Board of Directors may, in some cases, delay mergers, tender offers or other possible transactions that may be favored by some or a majority of our shareholders and may delay or frustrate action by shareholders to change the then current Board of Directors and management. The Oregon Control Share Act and Business Combination Act may limit parties that acquire a significant amount of voting shares from exercising control over us for specific periods of time. These acts may lengthen the period for a proxy contest or for a person to vote their shares to elect the majority of our Board and change management. 13 Table of Contents Our stock price is volatile and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. Historically, the market price of our stock has been highly volatile. The following types of announcements could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock: positive or negative results of testing and clinical trials by ourselves, strategic partners, or competitors; delays in entering into corporate partnerships; technological innovations or commercial product introductions by ourselves or competitors; changes in government regulations; developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; public concern relating to the commercial value or safety of any of our products; financing or other corporate transactions; or general stock market conditions. The significant number of our shares of common stock eligible for future sale may cause the price of our common stock to fall. We have outstanding 110,495,587 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2009 and all are eligible for sale under Rule 144 or are otherwise freely tradable. In addition: · Our employees and others hold options to buy a total of 8,932,811 shares of common stock, of which 5,119,227 options were exercisable at December 31, 2009. The options outstanding have exercise prices between $0.60 and $7.35 per share. The shares of common stock to be issued upon exercise of these options have been registered, and, therefore, may be freely sold when issued. · There are outstanding warrants to buy 32,332,996 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2009 with exercise prices ranging from $.0003 to $35.63 per share. Outstanding warrants to buy 30,203,466 shares of common stock are issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants for common stock registered for resale and may be freely sold when issued, subject to the limitations imposed by applicable securities laws. Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,129,530 shares of common stock are not registered for resale. These warrants include warrants to purchase an aggregate of shares of common stock were issued to Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ISIS”) in exchange for warrants to purchase shares of Ercole capital stock previously issued by Ercole to ISIS prior to the Company’s acquisition of Ercole. Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,683,545 shares of common stock issued in 2000 and prior were issued as a part of a technology licensing agreement and to a former employee. · We may issue options to purchase up to an additional 681,955 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2009 under our stock option plans, which also will be fully saleable when issued except to the extent limited under Rule 144 for resales by our officers and directors. Sales of substantial amounts of shares into the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market and we may not be able to maintain that listing, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market has several quantitative and qualitative requirements with which companies must comply in order to maintain this listing, including a $1.00 minimum bid price per share and $50 million minimum value of listed securities. If a listed company fails to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price per share requirement for 30 consecutive days, it will receive a notice from NASDAQ mandating that the company achieve compliance with the minimum bid price per share listing requirement within 180 calendar days. Our stock price is currently above $1.00; however, our stock price was priced at $0.99 as recently as May 11, 2009. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the minimum bid price per share requirement in the future. In addition to the foregoing, if we are not listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market and/or if our public float remains below $75 million, we may be limited in our ability to file new shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 and/or to fully use one or more registration statements on SEC Form S-3. We have relied significantly on shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 for most of our financings in recent years, so any such limitations might have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise any future capital we might need. 14 Table of Contents We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on our shares of common stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should only invest in our common stock with the expectation of realizing a return through capital appreciation on your investment. You should not invest in our common stock if you are seeking dividend income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 