Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That Could Affect Future Results Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Business Our product candidates are at an early stage of development, and it is possible that none of our product candidates will ever become commercial products. Our product candidates are in relatively early stages of development. These product candidates will require significant further development, financial resources and personnel to obtain regulatory approval and develop into commercially viable products, if at all. Currently, AVI-4658 is in clinical trials, we have open INDs for AVI-6002 in Ebola and AVI-6003 in Marburg, and the rest of our product candidates are in preclinical development. Our IND for AVI-7100 for the treatment of influenza is currently subject to a clinical hold. Providing the evidence required by the FDA to demonstrate that AVI-7100 is safe to use in humans has delayed, and may continue to delay, our clinical development of AVI-7100. Providing the FDA with additional evidence of the safety of the product will require additional time and resources and may not ultimately result in a lifting of the clinical hold, which would materially limit our ability to develop and commercialize this product candidate. We expect that much of our effort and many of our expenditures over the next several years will be devoted to development activities associated with AVI-4658 in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD, AVI-6002 in Ebola, AVI-6003 in Marburg and AVI-7100 in influenza. With current resources, we may be restricted or delayed in our ability to develop other clinical and preclinical product candidates. Our ability to commercialize any of our product candidates, including AVI-4658, depends on first receiving required regulatory approvals, and it is possible that we may never receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates based on an inability to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates, lack of funding, changes in the regulatory landscape or other reasons. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the resulting product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. Assuming that any of our product candidates receives the required regulatory approvals, commercial success will depend on a number of factors, including: • establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety to the medical community; • cost-effectiveness of the product; • the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties, including governmental payors such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, and private health insurers; • the product’s potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; • whether the product can be produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; • marketing and distribution support for the product; and • any exclusivities applicable to the product. Although we have been granted orphan status for two of our product candidates, we are not guaranteed to receive orphan exclusivity based on that status and would not enjoy such exclusivity in the event that another -23- Table of Contents entity could get approval of the same product for the same indication before we receive approval. Furthermore, pediatric exclusivity only attaches if another exclusivity exists for the product, so if no other regulatory exclusivity or patent protection exists for the product once it is approved, we would not receive the benefit of any pediatric exclusivity. If we are unable to develop and commercialize any of our product candidates, if development is delayed or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we may never reach sustained profitability. If we are unable to obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired and our business will not be successful. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, selling, marketing and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States, and other regulatory authorities in other countries, with regulations differing from country to country. Marketing of our product candidates in the United States or foreign countries is not permitted until we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other foreign regulatory authorities, and we may never receive regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates. Obtaining marketing approval is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process and approval is never assured. We have never prepared or filed the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals. Further, the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the approval process, and determining when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product candidate we develop. In this regard, even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other foreign regulatory authority. In addition, the FDA or their advisors may disagree with our interpretations of data from preclinical studies and clinical trials. Regulatory agencies may approve a product candidate for fewer conditions than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-approval studies for a product candidate. Similarly, regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols or other approval strategies to reflect these changes. Amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to IRBs for reexamination, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. Changes in our approval strategies may require additional studies that were not originally planned. Due to these and other factors, such as the fact that a product utilizing our RNA-based technologies has never been approved by any regulatory authority, our current product candidates or any of our other future product candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain regulatory approval, which could delay or eliminate any potential product revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of our product candidates. If we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and oversight, including adverse event reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and potential other post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such products. The FDA’s policies may also change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States, or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, we may not be permitted to market our products and our business could suffer. Any delay in, or failure to, receive or maintain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates could harm our business and prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. We will need to obtain regulatory approval from authorities in foreign countries to market our product candidates in those countries. We have not filed for -24- Table of Contents regulatory approval to market our product candidates in any foreign jurisdiction. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. If we fail to obtain approvals from foreign jurisdictions, the geographic market for our product candidates would be limited. Our clinical trials may fail to demonstrate acceptable levels of safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. To obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market and sell any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate, through extensive preclinical and clinical studies, that the product candidate is safe and effective in humans. Ongoing and future clinical trials of our product candidates may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain regulatory approvals. Phase I clinical trials generally are not designed to test the efficacy of a product candidate but rather are designed to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics and to understand the product candidate’s side effects at various doses and dosing schedules in healthy volunteers. Delays in establishing the appropriate dosage levels can lead to delays in the overall clinical development of a product candidate. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we do not believe that we have identified a consistently effective dose of AVI-4658 for individuals with DMD. We are expeditiously moving to start a U.S.-based clinical trial for AVI-4658 at higher doses in the first half of 2011 to further explore and identify a more consistently effective dose that may be more appropriate for future clinical trials and that can serve as a basis for approval by governmental regulatory authorities; however, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. If a consistently effective dose is found in the U.S. based clinical trial, we will expect to engage in discussions with regulatory authorities about the design and subsequent execution of any further studies which may be required. Regulatory authorities might require more extensive clinical trials than anticipated and conforming to any guidance regulatory authorities provide does not guarantee receipt of marketing approval, even if we believe our clinical trials are successful. Such additional clinical trials might include an open label “extension study” for all participants who have previously received AVI-4658, as well as other participants (e.g., non-ambulatory participants) and any additional placebo-controlled “pivotal” study or studies. If we are not able to establish an optimal dosage in this trial we may need to conduct additional dose-ranging trials before conducting our pivotal trials of the product. Furthermore, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that later larger-scale trials will be successful nor does it predict final results. Acceptable results in early trials may not be reproduced in later trials. For example, pivotal trials for AVI-4658 and AVI-7100 will likely involve a larger number of participants to achieve statistical significance, will be expensive and will take a substantial amount of time to complete. As a result, we may conduct lengthy and expensive clinical trials of our product candidates, only to learn that the product candidate is not an effective treatment or is not superior to existing approved therapies, or has an unacceptable safety profile, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval for such product candidate. The Animal Rule is a new and seldom-used approach to seeking approval of a new drug and may not be a viable pathway for seeking approval of our infectious disease product candidates. We plan to develop the therapeutic product candidates to treat Ebola and Marburg viruses in the United States using the Animal Rule mechanism. There is no guarantee that the FDA will agree to this approach to the development of our infectious disease product candidates, and if they do not we will have to take a more traditional approach to the development of these products, which may not be possible given ethical considerations and other limitations associated with these deadly diseases. Pursuant to the Animal Rule, the sponsor of a drug product must demonstrate efficacy in humans through animal models. No animal model is established as predicting human outcomes in the prevention or treatment of any filovirus disease. We have yet to demonstrate the predictive value of our animal studies to the FDA’s satisfaction. If we fail to do so, we will have -25- Table of Contents to demonstrate efficacy of AVI-6002 and AVI-6003 through adequate well-controlled trials in humans in order to obtain regulatory approval of these products in the United States, which will greatly add to the time and expense required to commercialize these products. Furthermore, the Animal Rule mechanism has become available only relatively recently and has been infrequently used. We do not have any experience successfully navigating this approach to drug approval. The Animal Rule approach has yet to be well tested generally and is currently under evaluation by the FDA. Even if the Animal Rule represents a viable approach to seeking approval of these products, it may present challenges for gaining final regulatory approval for these product candidates, including an extended timeline to approval and less predictable study requirements. We rely on U.S. government contracts to support several important research and development programs and substantially all of our revenue. If the U.S. government fails to fund such programs on a timely basis or at all, or such contracts are terminated, the results of our operations would be materially and adversely affected. We rely on U.S. government contracts and awards to fund several of our development programs, including those for the Ebola, Marburg and influenza viruses and for substantially all of our current revenue. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. If appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable or are reduced or delayed, our contracts may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future revenue under such contract or subcontract. From time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, Congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. During such a period, or until the regular appropriation bills are passed, delays can occur in government procurement due to lack of funding and such delays can affect our operations during the period of delay. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government’s convenience or for default based on performance. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been completed to that point. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts. The termination of one or more of these government contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays or product failures in connection with one or more of these contracts, could negatively impact our financial condition. Furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new U.S. government contracts to offset the revenue lost as a result of termination of any of our existing contracts. Even if our contracts are not terminated and are completed, there is no assurance that we will receive future government contracts. Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated and we may be liable for penalties under a variety of procurement rules and regulations and changes in government regulations or practices could adversely affect our profitability, cash balances or growth prospects. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on our business and our failure to comply with them may lead to penalties and the termination of our U.S. government contracts. Some significant regulations that affect us include: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts; -26- Table of Contents • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; and • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts. Our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to periodic review and investigation. If such a review or investigation identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. government agencies. We could also suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which would impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. In addition, U.S. government agencies routinely audit and review their contractors’ performance on contracts, cost structure, pricing practices and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Such audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs, and any costs found to be improperly allocated will not be reimbursed. We have recorded contract revenues for the periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit; however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and, if future audit adjustments exceed our estimates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, we may be required to enter into agreements and subcontracts with third parties, including suppliers, consultants and other third party contractors in order to satisfy our contractual obligations pursuant to our agreements with the U.S. government. Negotiating and entering into such arrangements can be time-consuming and we may not be able to reach agreement with such third parties. Any such agreement also has to be compliant with the terms of our government grants. Any delay or inability to enter into such arrangements or entering into such arrangements in a manner that is non-compliant with the terms of our grants, may result in violations of our contracts with the U.S. government. Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming, may take longer than we expect or may not be completed at all, and their outcomes are uncertain. We have completed a Phase Ib/II clinical trial for AVI-4658 in the UK and announced results in October 2010. We expect to commence additional trials of AVI-4658 and other product candidates in the future, including the initiation of a Phase II trial in AVI-4658 in the first half of 2011. Each of our clinical trials requires the investment of substantial planning, expense and time and the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of these clinical trials may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes, including scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, difficulties in identifying and enrolling participants who meet trial eligibility criteria, failure of participants to complete the clinical trial, delay or failure to obtain IRB or regulatory approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site, unexpected adverse events and shortages of available drug supply. Participant enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the relevant population, the proximity of participants to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. We depend on medical institutions and clinical research organizations, or CROs, to conduct our clinical trials in compliance with Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, and to the extent they fail to enroll participants for our clinical trials, fail to conduct the study to GCP standards or are delayed for a significant time in the execution of our trials, including achieving full enrollment, we may be affected by increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business. In addition, we conduct clinical trials in foreign countries which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased drug shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the engagement of foreign CROs, as well as expose us to risks associated with less experienced clinical investigators who are unknown to the FDA, and different standards of medical care. Foreign currency transactions insofar as changes in the relative value of -27- Table of Contents the U.S. dollar to the foreign currency where the trial is being conducted may impact our actual costs. In addition, for some programs (e.g., DMD and Ebola and Marburg infections) there are currently no approved drugs to compare against and an agreement about how to measure efficacy has yet to be reached with the FDA and then demonstrated. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA or other applicable foreign government guidelines and are subject to oversight by the FDA, other foreign governmental agencies and IRBs at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with supplies of our product candidates produced under cGMP and other requirements in foreign countries, and may require large numbers of participants. The FDA or other foreign governmental agencies or we ourselves could delay, suspend or halt our clinical trials of a product candidate for numerous reasons, including: • deficiencies in the trial design; • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trial, including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols; • deficiencies in the clinical trial operations or trial sites resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • the product candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects, including fatalities, or a determination may be made that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; • the time required to determine whether the product candidate is effective may be longer than expected; • fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial that may not be related to clinical trial treatments; • the product candidate may appear to be no more effective than current therapies; • the quality or stability of the product candidate may fall below acceptable standards; • our inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of the product candidate to complete the trials; • our inability to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • our inability to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • our inability to obtain regulatory approval to conduct a clinical trial; • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the occurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; • our inability to recruit and enroll individuals to participate in clinical trials for reasons including competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; or • our inability to retain participants who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. In addition, we may experience significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials, such as unexpected adverse events that occur when our product candidates are combined with other therapies and drugs or given to larger populations, which often occur in later-stage clinical trials. In addition, clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Also, patient advocacy groups and parents of trial participants may demand additional clinical trials or continued access to drug even if our interpretation of clinical results received thus far leads us to determine that additional clinical trials or continued access are unwarranted. Any disagreement with patient advocacy groups or parents of trial participants may require management’s time and attention and may result in -28- Table of Contents legal proceedings being instituted against us, which could be expensive, time-consuming and distracting, and may result in delay of the program. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events, including participant fatalities that may be attributable to our product candidates, during a clinical trial may necessitate it to be redesigned, repeated or terminated. Further, some of our clinical trials may be overseen by an independent data safety monitoring board, or DSMB, and the DSMB may determine to delay or suspend one or more of these trials due to safety or futility findings based on events occurring during a clinical trial. We have incurred net losses since our inception and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred a net loss of $32.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $25.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $307.6 million. Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in research and development of our technology and products and from general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while building our business infrastructure. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses in the future as we continue our research and development efforts and seek to obtain regulatory approval of our products. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability to raise additional capital, partner one or more programs, complete development of our products, obtain regulatory approvals and market our products. It is uncertain when, if ever, we will become profitable. We will need additional funds to conduct our planned research and development efforts. If we fail to continue to attract significant capital or fail to enter into strategic relationships, we may be unable to continue to develop our product candidates. We will require additional capital from time to time in the future in order to continue the development of product candidates in our pipeline and to expand our product portfolio. The actual amount of funds that we will need will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the success of our research and development efforts, the status of our pre-clinical and clinical testing, costs relating to securing regulatory approvals and the costs and timing of obtaining new patent rights, regulatory changes and competitive and technological developments in the market. An unforeseen change in these factors, or others, might increase our need for additional capital. We would expect to seek additional financing from the sale and issuance of equity or debt securities, and we cannot predict that financing will be available when and as we need financing or that, if available, the financing terms will be commercially reasonable. If we are unable to obtain additional financing when and if we require, or on commercially reasonable terms, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are able to consummate such financings, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected and/or the terms of such financings may adversely affect the interests of our existing shareholders. To the extent we issue additional equity securities, our existing shareholders could experience substantial dilution in their economic and voting rights. For example, in connection with our December 2007, January 2009 and August 2009 financings, we sold an aggregate of 49.2 million shares of our common stock and issued warrants to purchase an additional 29.7 million shares of our common stock. Further, we may also enter into relationships with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to perform research and development with respect to our RNA-based technologies, research programs or to conduct clinical trials and to market our product candidates. We currently do not have a strategic relationship with a third party to perform research or development using our RNA-based technologies or assist us in funding the continued development and commercialization of any of our programs or drug candidates other than that with the U.S. government. If we are unable to enter into partnerships or strategic relationships with respect to our technologies or any of our programs or drug candidates on favorable terms it may impede our ability to discover, develop and commercialize product candidates. -29- Table of Contents We currently rely on third-party manufacturers and other third parties for production of our drug products and our dependence on these manufacturers may impair the advancement of our research and development programs and the development of our product candidates. We do not currently have the internal ability to manufacture the product candidates that we need to conduct our clinical trials and we rely upon a limited number of manufacturers to supply our product candidates. We may also need to rely on manufacturers for the production of our product candidates to support our research and development programs. In addition, we rely on other third parties to perform additional steps in the manufacturing process, including filling and labeling of vials and storage of our product candidates. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers and other third parties to produce, fill vials and store sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our research and development programs and clinical trials. For example, for our Ebola and Marburg hemorrhagic fever virus development programs, we have entered into supply agreements with two multinational manufacturing firms for the production of the API for Ebola and Marburg therapeutics. There is a limited number of companies that can produce PMO in the quantities and with the quality and purity that we require for our development efforts. If we are required to seek alternative supply arrangements, the resulting delays and potential inability to find a suitable replacement could materially and adversely impact our business. Our product candidates require precise high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain high quality standards, including failure to detect or control anticipated or unanticipated manufacturing errors could result in patient injury or death or product recalls. Contract drug manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance and shortages of qualified personnel. If our contract manufacturers or other third parties fail to deliver our product candidates for our research and development programs and for clinical use on a timely basis, with sufficient quality, and at commercially reasonable prices, and we fail to find replacement manufacturers or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials, research and development programs or otherwise discontinue development and production of our product candidates. In addition, we depend on outside vendors for the supply of raw materials used to produce our product candidates. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with quality raw materials and we are unable to contract on acceptable terms for these raw materials with alternative suppliers, our ability to have our product candidates manufactured and to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates would be adversely affected. We do not yet have all of the agreements necessary for the supply of our product candidates in quantities sufficient for commercial sale and we may not be able to establish or maintain sufficient commercial manufacturing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms. Securing commercial quantities of our product candidates from contract manufacturers will require us to commit significant capital and resources. We may also be required to enter into long-term manufacturing agreements that contain exclusivity provisions and/or substantial termination penalties. In addition, contract manufacturers have a limited number of facilities in which our product candidates can be produced and any interruption of the operation of those facilities due to events such as equipment malfunction or failure or damage to the facility by natural disasters could result in the cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the manufacturing process or a shortfall in available product candidates. Our contract manufacturers are required to produce our clinical product candidates under current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, conditions in order to meet acceptable standards for our clinical trials. If such standards change, the ability of contract manufacturers to produce our product candidates on the schedule we require for our clinical trials may be affected. In addition, contract manufacturers may not perform their obligations under their agreements with us or may discontinue their business before the time required by us to successfully produce and market our product candidates. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over a third-party manufacturer’s compliance with these regulations and standards. Any -30- Table of Contents difficulties or delays in our contractors’ manufacturing and supply of product candidates or any failure of our contractors to maintain compliance with the applicable regulations and standards could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue, make us postpone or cancel clinical trials, prevent or delay regulatory approval by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities, prevent the import and/or export of our product candidates, or cause our products to be recalled or withdrawn. We may not be able to successfully scale-up manufacturing of our product candidates in sufficient quality and quantity, which would delay or prevent us from developing our product candidates and commercializing resulting approved drug products, if any. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and early stage clinical trials. In order to conduct larger or late-stage scale clinical trials for a product candidate and for commercialization of the resulting drug product if that product candidate is approved for sale, we will need to manufacture it in larger quantities. We may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, in a timely or cost-effective manner or at all. If a contract manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our product candidates, we may not own, or may have to share, the intellectual property rights to those improvements. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which are costly and which the FDA must review and approve. In addition, quality issues may arise during those scale-up activities because of the inherent properties of a product candidate itself or of a product candidate in combination with other components added during the manufacturing and packaging process, or during shipping and storage of the finished product or active pharmaceutical ingredients. If we are unable to successfully scale-up manufacture of any of our product candidates in sufficient quality and quantity, the development of that product candidate and regulatory approval or commercial launch for any resulting drug products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply, which could significantly harm our business. We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs. The inadequate performance by or loss of any of these service providers could affect our product candidate development. Several third parties provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in vitro and in vivo studies, assay and reagent development, immunohistochemistry, toxicology, pharmacokinetics, clinical assessments, data monitoring and management and statistical analysis and other outsourced activities. If these service providers do not adequately perform the services for which we have contracted or cease to continue operations and we are not able to quickly find a replacement provider or we lose information or items associated with our product candidates, our development programs may be delayed. Our RNA-based, or antisense, technology has not been incorporated into a commercial product and is still at a relatively early stage of development. Our RNA-based platforms, utilizing proprietary antisense technology, have not been incorporated into a commercial product and are still at a relatively early stage of development. This antisense technology is used in all of our therapeutic candidates, including AVI-4658. We are conducting toxicology, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and other preclinical studies and, although we have initiated clinical trials for AVI-4658, additional preclinical studies may be required for AVI-4658 and before other product candidates enter human clinical trials. For example, we noted unexpected toxicology findings in the kidney as part of our series of preclinical studies for AVI-5038, our preclinical PPMO drug candidate for DMD that is based on a different chemistry, derived from the PMO chemistry used in AVI-4658. Based on those findings, we conducted additional preclinical work to help clarify the therapeutic index of AVI-5038, but have not yet alleviated the toxicity problem. In addition, preclinical models to study participant toxicity and activity of compounds are not necessarily predictive of toxicity or efficacy of these compounds in the treatment of human disease and there may be substantially different results in clinical trials from the results obtained in preclinical studies. Any failures or setbacks utilizing our antisense technology, including adverse effects resulting from the use of this technology -31- Table of Contents in humans, could have a detrimental impact on our internal product candidate pipeline and our ability to maintain and/or enter into new corporate collaborations regarding these technologies, which would negatively affect our business and financial position. We intend to increase the size of our workforce and if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our growth prospects and operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to perform our U.S. government contracts, growth prospects and operating results depend on highly-skilled personnel to conduct research and product development activities and we intend to recruit, hire and retain additional personnel in the near term. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry, particularly those with experience with either rare or infectious diseases that we target, or may target in the future, is intense. In addition, we expect to meet some of our short-term personnel needs by engaging contractors who may be difficult to retain if they are offered permanent positions with other companies. If we are unable to attract, assimilate or retain such personnel or manage our growth effectively, our continued growth, expansion and ability to advance our proprietary programs and perform our U.S. government contracts would be adversely affected. We rely on highly skilled personnel, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, our operations may be adversely affected. Our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy are highly dependent on the efforts of our executive management team. In April 2010, our chief executive officer and president resigned in connection with the settlement with a group of our shareholders. Following his departure, our board of directors appointed J. David Boyle II, our chief financial officer, to serve as interim chief executive officer and president. In December 2010, our board of directors appointed Christopher Garabedian, a member of the board of directors, to serve as the president and chief executive officer beginning in January 2011. In connection with Mr. Garabedian’s appointment, Mr. Boyle returned to the chief financial officer position. If the transition in executive leadership is not smooth, the resulting disruption could negatively affect our operations and impede our ability to execute our strategic plan. In addition, although the members of our senior management team have employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for these officers to continue employment with us. The loss of one or more of the members of our senior management team could adversely affect our operations. Recent changes in our executive leadership and board of directors and any similar changes in the future may serve as a significant distraction for our management. As previously disclosed on April 20, 2010, we entered into a settlement agreement with a shareholder group that had sought a special meeting of our shareholders to replace certain members of our board of directors. In connection with such settlement agreement, among other things, we experienced the change in our executive leadership described above and our board of directors underwent significant change. Such changes, or any other future changes in the executive leadership of the company, may disrupt our operations as our company adjusts to the reallocation of responsibilities and assimilates new leadership and, potentially, differing perspectives on our strategic direction. The dispute with the shareholder group required the expenditure of significant time and resources by us and if we are involved in a similar dispute in the future, we may incur significant additional expenditures and it may be a significant distraction for our management and employees. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be challenging and costly, and our failure to do so could harm our ability to compete and impair the outcome of our operations. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic environments are highly competitive and competing intellectual property could limit our ability to protect our products. Our success will depend in significant part on our existing 189 patents (domestic and foreign) issued or licensed to us and 181 (domestic and foreign) pending patent applications and our ability to obtain additional patents and licenses in the future. We license patents from other parties for certain complementary technologies. -32- Table of Contents We cannot be certain that pending patent applications will result in patents being issued in the United States or foreign countries. In addition, the patents that have been or will be issued may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that do not conflict with our patents. Pharmaceutical research and development is highly competitive; others may file patents first that cover our products or technology. We are aware of a European patent to which Prosensa has rights that may provide the basis for Prosensa or other parties that have rights to the patent to assert that our drug AVI-4658 infringes on such patent. We are currently opposing this patent in the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office and believe that we may be able to invalidate some or all of the claims covered by this patent and non-U.S. foreign equivalents. Final resolution of this opposition proceeding may take a number of years. Our success will also depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others as well as our ability to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We may be required at times to take legal action to protect our proprietary rights and, despite our best efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the patent rights of others. We have not received any communications or other indications from owners of related patents or others that such persons believe our products or technology may infringe on their patents. Patent litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition. If we do not prevail, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. If any patent related to our products or technology issues, and if our activities are determined to be covered by such a patent, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain a license, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and ability to obtain and/or maintain our strategic business relationships. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. The patent position of pharmaceutical and biotechnology firms, as well as academia, is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents. In addition, there is a substantial backlog of pharmaceutical and biotechnology patent applications at the USPTO and the approval or rejection of patents may take several years. To help protect our proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements. However, such agreements may not provide us with adequate protection if confidential information is used or disclosed improperly. In addition, in some situations these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Further, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our research collaborators may publish data and information to which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, then our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be impaired. We face intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We are aware of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are actively engaged in research and development in areas related to antisense technology and other RNA technologies or that are developing alternative approaches to or therapeutics for the disease indications on which we are focused. Some of these competitors are developing or testing product candidates that now, or may in the future, compete directly with our product candidates. For example, we believe that companies including Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Isis Pharmaceuticals, and Santaris share a focus on RNA-based drug discovery and development. Competitors with respect to our exon skipping DMD program, or AVI-4658, include Prosensa and GlaxoSmithKline, or GSK, and other companies such as Acceleron have also been working on DMD programs. -33- Table of Contents A European based clinical trial evaluating the systemic administration of the Prosensa/GSK lead DMD drug candidate started several months before the start of our similar clinical trial, although the full biological results from this trial have yet to be made publically available. The Prosensa/GSK drug candidate may, or may not, prove to be safer or more efficacious than our product candidate and it could gain marketing approval before our product candidate. This might affect our ability to successfully complete a clinical development program or market AVI-4658 once approved. This competition may also extend to other exon skipping drugs for DMD limiting our ability to gain market share. We also face significant competition with respect to our influenza program from many different companies, including large biopharmaceutical companies that have both marketed products like Tamiflu® and other products in various stages of development. Other potential competitors include large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies that have significantly greater resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Also, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing. It is possible that these competitors will succeed in developing technologies that are more effective than our product candidates or that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may, among other things: • develop safer or more effective products; • implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing; • develop less costly products; • obtain quicker regulatory approval; • have access to more manufacturing capacity; • develop products that are more convenient and easier to administer; • form more advantageous strategic alliances; or • establish superior proprietary positions. We may be subject to clinical trial claims and our insurance may not be adequate to cover damages. We currently have no products that have been approved for commercial sale; however, the current and future use of our product candidates by us and our corporate collaborators in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products in the future, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers or healthcare providers or indirectly by pharmaceutical companies, our corporate collaborators or others selling such products. We may experience financial losses in the future due to product liability claims. We have obtained limited general commercial liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against all losses. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws, which can be expensive, and may affect our business and operating results. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including organic and inorganic solvents and reagents. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, manufacturing, exposure to, and disposal of these hazardous materials. In addition, we are subject to environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens, and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we believe that our activities conform in all material respects with such environmental laws, there can be no assurance that violations of these laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, -34- Table of Contents accident, equipment failure, or other causes. Liability under environmental, health and safety laws can be joint and several and without regard to fault or negligence. The failure to comply with past, present, or future laws could result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties, remediation costs, property damage and personal injury claims, loss of permits or a cessation of operations, and any of these events could harm our business and financial conditions. We expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental and health and workplace safety laws on an ongoing basis, and although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws, they may impose greater compliance costs or result in increased risks or penalties, which could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Oregon corporate law might deter acquisition bids for us that might be considered favorable and prevent or frustrate any attempt to replace or remove the then current management and board of directors. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our board of directors and management. These provisions include: • classification of our board of directors into two classes, with one class elected each year; • prohibit cumulative voting of shares in the election of directors; • prohibit shareholder actions by less than unanimous written consent; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings; and • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms and rights of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without shareholder approval, including rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the Oregon Control Share Act and Business Combination Act may limit parties that acquire a significant amount of voting shares from exercising control over us for specific periods of time. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change of control, even if doing so would benefit our shareholders. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing or cause us to take other corporate actions, such as replacing or removing management or members of our board of directors. Our stock price is volatile and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. The market prices for, and trading volumes of, securities of biotechnology companies, including our securities, have been historically volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: • positive or negative results of testing and clinical trials by ourselves, strategic partners, or competitors; • delays in entering into strategic relationships with respect to development and/or commercialization of our product candidates or entry into strategic relationships on terms that are not deemed to be favorable to our company; • technological innovations or commercial product introductions by ourselves or competitors; • changes in government regulations; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • public concern relating to the commercial value or safety of any of our products; • financing or other corporate transactions; -35- Table of Contents • comments by securities analysts; • the perception that shares of our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market; or • general market conditions in our industry or in the economy as a whole. In addition, the stock market has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instigated against these companies. Such litigation, if instigated against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market and we may not be able to maintain that listing, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market has several quantitative and qualitative requirements with which companies must comply in order to maintain this listing, including a $1.00 minimum bid price per share and $50 million minimum value of listed securities. In the past our stock price has traded near, and at times below, the $1.00 minimum bid price required for continued listing on NASDAQ. For example, the trading price for our common stock was $0.99 as recently as May 11, 2009. Although NASDAQ in the past has provided relief from the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement as a result of the weakness in the stock market, it may not do so in the future. If we fail to maintain compliance with NASDAQ’s listing standards, and our common stock becomes ineligible for listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market the liquidity and price of our common stock would be adversely affected. If our common stock was delisted, the price of our stock and the ability of our shareholders to trade in our stock would be adversely affected. In addition, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our stock under U.S. federal securities laws, and we would not be able to allow our employees to exercise their outstanding options, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are delisted in the future from The NASDAQ Global Market, there may be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by actual or potential collaboration partners, suppliers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. We expect our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in future periods, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe they will continue to do so in the future. Some of these fluctuations may be more pronounced than they were in the past as a result of the issuance of warrants to purchase 29.7 million shares of our common stock by us in December 2007 and January and August 2009. Each of these warrants is classified as a derivative liability. Accordingly, the fair value of the warrants is recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability, and such fair value is adjusted at each financial reporting date with the adjustment to fair value reflected in our consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of the warrants is determined using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. Fluctuations in the assumptions and factors used in the Black-Scholes model can result in adjustments to the fair value of the warrants reflected on our balance sheet and, therefore, our statement of operations. Due to the classification of such warrants and other factors, quarterly results of operations are difficult to forecast, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be predictive of future performance. In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline regardless of our operating performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. -36- Table of Contents 