Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Affecting Future Operating Results The following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and prospects for the future. If risks described below actually occur, our operating results and financial condition would likely suffer and the trading price of our common stock may fall, causing a loss of some or all of an investment in our common stock. Our products are in an early stage of research and development and may not be determined to be safe or effective. We are only in the early stages of research and clinical development with respect to our NEUGENE antisense pharmaceutical products. We have devoted almost all of our time to research and development of our technology and products, protecting our proprietary rights and establishing strategic alliances. Our potential products are in the pre-clinical or clinical stages of research and development and will require significant further research, development, clinical testing and regulatory clearances. We have no products available for sale and we do not expect to have any products available for sale for several years. Our proposed products are subject to development risks. These risks include the possibilities that any of the products could be found to be ineffective or toxic, or could fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances. We have not received any significant revenues from the sale of products and we may not successfully develop marketable products that will increase sales and, given adequate margins, make us profitable. Third parties may develop superior or equivalent, but less expensive, products. We have incurred net losses since our inception and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred a net loss of $16.7 million in 2005 and $31.1 million in 2006. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $203.7 million. Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in research and development of our technology and products and from selling, general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while building our business infrastructure. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses in the future as we continue our research and development efforts and seek to obtain regulatory approval of our products. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability to raise additional capital, complete development of our products, obtain regulatory approvals and market our products. It is uncertain when, if ever, we will become profitable. If we fail to attract significant additional capital, we may be unable to continue to successfully develop our products. Since we began operations, we have obtained operating funds primarily by selling shares of our common stock. Based on our current plans, we believe that current cash balances will be sufficient to meet our operating needs for the current fiscal year. Furthermore, the actual amount of funds that we will need will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the success of our research and development efforts, the status of our pre-clinical and clinical testing, costs relating to securing regulatory approvals and the costs and timing of obtaining new patent rights, regulatory changes, competition and technological developments in the market. We may need funds sooner than currently anticipated. If necessary, potential sources of additional funding could include strategic relationships, public or private sales of shares of our stock or debt or other arrangements. We may not be 12 able to obtain additional funding when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted. If we are unable to obtain financing when needed, our business and future prospects would be materially adversely affected. If we fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our products. All of our products are subject to extensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and by comparable agencies in other countries. The FDA and these agencies require new pharmaceutical products to undergo lengthy and detailed clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming compliance procedures. We do not know when or if we will be able to submit our products for regulatory review. Even if we submit a new drug application, there may be delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, if we obtain them at all. Sales of our products outside the United States will also be subject to regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and product approval. These requirements vary from country to country and could delay introduction of our products in those countries. We cannot assure you that any of our products will receive marketing approval from the FDA or comparable foreign agencies. We may fail to compete effectively, particularly against larger, more established pharmaceutical companies, causing our business to suffer. The biotechnology industry is highly competitive. We compete with companies in the United States and abroad that are engaged in the development of pharmaceutical technologies and products. They include biotechnology, pharmaceutical, chemical and other companies; academic and scientific institutions; governmental agencies; and public and private research organizations. The financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities of many of these entities, some of which are our competitors, exceed our resources and capabilities. Our industry is characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological progress. Competitors may successfully develop and market superior or less expensive products which render our products less valuable or unmarketable. We have limited operating experience. We have engaged solely in the research and development of pharmaceutical technology. Although some members of our management team have experience in biotechnology company operations, we have limited experience in manufacturing or selling pharmaceutical products. We also have only limited experience in negotiating and maintaining strategic relationships and in conducting clinical trials and other later-stage phases of the regulatory approval process. We may not successfully engage in some or all of these activities. We have limited manufacturing capability. While we believe that we can produce materials for clinical trials and produce products for human use at our existing and potentially expanded manufacturing facility, we may need to expand our commercial manufacturing capabilities for products in the future if we elect not to or cannot contract with others to manufacture our products. This expansion may occur in stages, each of which would require regulatory approval, and product demand could at times exceed supply capacity. We have reviewed sites for expanded facilities and do not know what the construction cost will be for such facilities and whether we will have the financing 13 needed for such construction. We do not know if or when the FDA will determine that such facilities comply with Good Manufacturing Practices. The projected location and construction of any facilities will depend on regulatory approvals, product development, pharmaceutical partners and capital resources, among other factors. We have not obtained regulatory approvals for any productions facilities for our products, nor can we assure investors that we will be able to do so. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled personnel required for our activities, our business will suffer. Our success will depend to a large extent on the abilities and continued service of several key employees, including Drs. Denis Burger, Patrick Iversen, and Dwight Weller. We maintain key man life insurance in the amount of $1,000,000 for Dr. Burger and $500,000 for each of Drs. Iversen and Weller. The loss of any of these key employees could significantly delay the achievement of our goals. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. To date, we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. We are not aware of any key personnel who plan to retire or otherwise leave the Company in the near future. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly, and our failure to do so will harm our ability to compete and the results of our operations. Our success will depend on our existing patents and licenses and our ability to obtain additional patents in the future. A patent estate including 202 patents (domestic and foreign) issued or licensed to us, and 198 pending patent applications (domestic and foreign) protects our technologies. We license the composition, manufacturing and use of AVICINE in all fields, except fertility regulation, from The Ohio State University. We license patents from other parties for certain complementary technologies. Some of our patents on core technologies expire as early as 2008, including for NEUGENES. Based on patented improvements and additions to such core patents, however, we believe our patent protection for those products and other products extend beyond 2020. We cannot assure you that our pending patent applications will result in patents being issued in the United States or foreign countries. In addition, the patents that have been or will be issued may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that do not conflict with our patents. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. The patent position of biotechnology firms generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents. In addition, there is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the USPTO and the approval or rejection of patents may take several years. Our success will also depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, as well as our ability to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We may be required at times to take legal action to protect our proprietary rights and, despite our best efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the patent rights of others. We have not received any communications or other indications from owners of related patents or others that such persons believe our products or technology may infringe their patents. Patent litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation 14 could adversely affect our financial condition. If we do not prevail, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain a license, our business might be materially adversely affected. To help protect our proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. However, such agreements may not provide us with adequate protection if confidential information is used or disclosed improperly. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Further, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If our strategic relationships are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. Our strategic relationships are important to our success. The development, improvement and marketing of many of our key therapeutic products are or will be dependent in large part on the efforts of our strategic partners. The transactions contemplated by our agreements with strategic partners, including the equity purchases and cash payments, are subject to numerous risks and conditions. The occurrence of any of these events could severely harm our business. Our near-term strategy is to co-develop products with strategic partners or to license the marketing rights for our products to pharmaceutical partners after we complete one or more Phase II clinical trials. In this manner, the extensive costs associated with late-stage clinical development and marketing will be shared with, or become the responsibility of, our strategic partners. To fully realize the potential of our products, including development, production and marketing, we may need to establish other strategic relationships. We may be subject to product liability lawsuits and our insurance may not be adequate to cover damages. We believe we carry adequate insurance for our current product development research. In the future, when we have products available for commercial sale and use, the use of our products will expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Although we intend to obtain product liability insurance coverage, product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms and our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us. A product liability claim, even one without merit or for which we have substantial coverage, could result in significant legal defense costs, thereby increasing our expenses, lowering our earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. Continuing efforts of government and third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care may adversely affect our revenues and future profitability. In addition to obtaining regulatory approval, the successful commercialization of our products will depend on the ability to obtain reimbursement for the cost of the product and treatment from the consumers of or third-party payors for such products. Government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States, the growth of healthcare 15 organizations such as HMOs, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reducing demand for our products. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting and any healthcare reform could affect our or our marketing partner’s ability to sell our products and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results from operations. Reimbursement in the United States or foreign countries may not be available for any of our products, any reimbursement granted may be reduced or discontinued, and limits on reimbursement available from third-party payors may reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products. The lack or inadequacy of third-party reimbursements for our products would have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additional legislation or regulation relating to the healthcare industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future that adversely affects our products and our business. If we fail to establish strategic relationships with larger pharmaceutical partners, our business may suffer. We do not intend to conduct late-stage (Phase III) human clinical trials ourselves. We anticipate entering into relationships with larger pharmaceutical companies to conduct these and later pharmaceutical trials and to market our products. We also plan to continue to use contract manufacturing for late stage clinical and commercial quantities of our products. We may be unable to enter into partnerships or other relationships, which could impede our ability to bring our products to market. Any such partnerships, if entered into at all, may be on less than favorable terms and may not result in the successful development or marketing of our products. If we are unsuccessful in establishing advantageous clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing relationships, we are not likely to generate significant revenues and become profitable. We use hazardous substances in our research activities We use organic and inorganic solvents and reagents in our clinical development that are customarily used in pharmaceutical development and synthesis. Some of these chemicals, such as methylene chloride, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl acetate and acetane, may be classified as hazardous substances, are flammable and, if exposed to human skin can cause anything from irritation to severe burns. We receive, store, use and dispose of such chemicals in compliance with all applicable laws with containment storage facilities and contained handling and disposal safeguards and procedures. We are routinely inspected by federal, state and local governmental and public safety agencies regarding our storage, use and disposal of such chemicals, including the federal Occupational, Safety and Health Agency (“OSHA”), the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (“DEQ”) and local fire departments, without any material noncompliance issues in such inspections to date. Further, our usage of such chemicals is limited and falls below the reporting thresholds under federal law. Based on our limited use of such chemicals, the nature of such chemicals and the safeguards undertaken by the Company for storage, use and disposal, we believe we do not have any material exposure for toxic tort liability. Further, the cost of such compliance is not a material cost in our operating budget. While we do not have toxic tort liability insurance at this time, we believe our current insurance coverage is adequate to cover most liabilities that may arise from our use of such substances. If we are wrong in any of our beliefs, we could incur a liability in certain circumstances that would be material to our finances and the value of an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Share Ownership Our right to issue preferred stock, our classified Board of Directors and Oregon Anti-Takeover 16 laws may delay a takeover attempt and prevent or frustrate any attempt to replace or remove the then current management of the Company by shareholders. Our authorized capital consists of 200,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors, without any further vote by the shareholders, has the authority to issue preferred shares and to determine the price, preferences, rights and restrictions, including voting and dividend rights, of these shares. The rights of the holders of shares of common stock may be affected by the rights of holders of any preferred shares that our board of directors may issue in the future. For example, our Board of Directors may allow the issuance of preferred shares with more voting rights, preferential dividend payments or more favorable rights upon dissolution than the shares of common stock or special rights to elect directors. In addition, we have a “classified” Board of Directors, which means that only one-half of our directors are eligible for election each year. Therefore, if shareholders wish to change the composition of our Board of Directors, it could take at least two years to remove a majority of the existing directors or to change all directors. Having a classified Board of Directors may, in some cases, delay mergers, tender offers or other possible transactions that may be favored by some or a majority of our shareholders and may delay or frustrate action by shareholders to change the then current Board of Directors and management. The Oregon Control Share Act and Business Combination Act may limit parties that acquire a significant amount of voting shares from exercising control over us for specific periods of time. These acts may lengthen the period for a proxy contest or for a person to vote their shares to elect the majority of our Board and change management. Our stock price is volatile and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. Historically, the market price of our stock has been highly volatile. The following types of announcements could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock: positive or negative results of testing and clinical trials by ourselves, strategic partners, or competitors; delays in entering into corporate partnerships; technological innovations or commercial product introductions by ourselves or competitors; changes in government regulations; developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; public concern relating to the commercial value or safety of any of our products; financing or other corporate transactions; or general stock market conditions. The significant number of our shares of Common Stock eligible for future sale may cause the price of our common stock to fall. We have outstanding 53,182,841 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2006 and all are eligible for sale under Rule 144 or are otherwise freely tradeable. In addition: · Our employees and others hold options to buy a total of 5,571,470 shares of common stock of which 3,660,483 shares were exercisable at December 31, 2006. The options outstanding have exercise prices between $1.76 and $8.13 per share. The shares of common stock to be issued upon exercise of these options, have been registered, and, therefore, may be freely sold when issued; · There are outstanding warrants to buy 8,508,103 shares of common stock at December 31, 2006 with exercise prices ranging from $.0003 to $35.63 per share. All of these shares of common stock are registered for resale and may be freely sold when issued; · We may issue options to purchase up to an additional 1,710,934 shares of common stock at December 31, 2006 under our stock option plans, which also will be fully 17 saleable when issued except to the extent limited under Rule 144 for resales by our officers and directors; · We are authorized to sell up to 248,144 shares of common stock under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan to our full-time employees, nearly all of whom are eligible to participate; and · We have also granted certain contractual rights to purchase (i) an additional 352,113 shares of our common stock at a price of $7.10 per share and (ii) the right to purchase up to $7,500,000 of our common stock based on the average closing sales price for the five days preceding the commitment to purchase. If we meet certain technological milestones, the holder of these rights is obligated to purchase shares of common stock from us. The holder of these rights may require us to register the shares issued upon the exercise of such purchase rights. Sales of substantial amounts of shares into the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on our shares of common stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should only invest in our common stock with the expectation of realizing a return through capital appreciation on your investment. You should not invest in our common stock if you are seeking dividend income. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Comments None. 