Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors That Could Affect Future Results Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please review our legend titled “Forward-Looking Information” at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K which is incorporated herein by reference. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Business Our product candidates are at an early stage of development, and it is possible that none of our product candidates will ever become commercial products. Our product candidates are in relatively early stages of development. These product candidates will require significant further development, financial resources and personnel to obtain regulatory approval and develop into commercially viable products, if at all. Currently, eteplirsen in DMD, AVI-7288 in Marburg and AVI-7100 in influenza are in active clinical development. AVI -7537 in Ebola is no longer in clinical development as a result of the October 2012 notice we received from the DoD, terminating the program for the development of AVI-7537 for the convenience of the government due to funding constraints. The rest of our product candidates are in preclinical development. We expect that much of our effort and many of our expenditures over the next several years will be devoted to development activities associated with eteplirsen and other exon-skipping candidates as part of our larger pan-exon strategy in DMD, our infectious disease candidates, our proprietary chemistry, and other potential therapeutic areas that provide long-term market opportunities. With current resources, we may be restricted or delayed in our ability to develop these and other clinical and preclinical product candidates. Our ability to commercialize any of our product candidates, including eteplirsen, depends on first receiving required regulatory approvals. It is possible that our product candidates, including eteplirsen, may never receive regulatory approval, including any designations that would expedite the review or approval process for various reasons, including: any failure to meet the applicable regulatory requirements to obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates including any failure to conduct a pivotal study with an FDA approved design, file an NDA prior to or in the time-frame suggested by the FDA, demonstrate the safety and effectiveness for any of our product candidates, lack of funding, changes in the regulatory landscape, new scientific developments, including the results for clinical trials of competitor drugs, and the FDA’s interpretation and analysis of such developments in connection with our product candidates, manufacturing or other reasons. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for any of our current product candidates, it could delay or eliminate any potential product commercialization and product revenue for our Company. Even if a product candidate receives regulatory approval, the resulting product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and the medical community. Assuming that any of our product candidates receives the required regulatory approvals, commercial success will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: • establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety and acceptance of the same by the medical community; • cost-effectiveness of the product; • the availability of adequate reimbursement by third parties, including governmental payers such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, and private health insurers; -31- Table of Contents • the product’s potential advantage over alternative treatment methods; • whether the product can be produced in commercial quantities and at acceptable costs; • marketing and distribution support for the product; and • any exclusivities applicable to the product. If we are unable to develop and commercialize any of our product candidates, if development is delayed or if sales revenue from any product candidate that receives marketing approval is insufficient, we may never reach sustained profitability. We have been granted orphan drug status for certain of our product candidates, but there can be no guarantee that we will be able to prevent third parties from developing and commercializing products that are competitive to these product candidates. To date we have been granted orphan status under the Orphan Drug Act by the FDA for: two of our product candidates in DMD (including eteplirsen), AVI-6002 and AVI-7537 for the treatment of Ebola virus and AVI-6003 and AVI-7288 for the treatment of Marburg virus. Generally, product candidates granted orphan status are provided with seven years of marketing exclusivity by the FDA upon New Drug Application (NDA) approval, meaning the FDA will generally not approve applications for product candidates that contain the same active ingredient and are labeled for the same orphan indication. Even if we are the first to obtain marketing exclusivity through an approval of an orphan product in the United States, there are limited circumstances under which a later product from a competitor may be approved for the same indication during the seven-year period of marketing exclusivity, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to our product or due to an inability to assure a sufficient quantity of the orphan drug. To date we have been granted orphan drug medicinal product designations in the European Union for our lead drug candidate, eteplirsen, and AVI-5038 for the treatment of DMD. Product candidates granted orphan status in Europe can be provided with up to 10 years of marketing exclusivity, meaning that another application for marketing authorization of a later similar medicinal product for the same therapeutic indication will generally not be approved in Europe. Pediatric product candidates may be eligible for an additional two years of marketing exclusivity. Although we may have drug candidates that have or may obtain orphan drug exclusivity in Europe, the orphan designation and associated exclusivity period may be modified for several reasons, including the designation criteria may have significantly changed since market authorization of the orphan product, (e.g., product profitability exceeds the criteria for orphan drug designation), there are production or supply problems with the orphan drug, or a competitor drug, although similar, is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior than the initial orphan drug. We are not guaranteed to receive or maintain orphan status for our current or future product candidates and if our product candidates that have been granted orphan status were to lose their status as orphan drugs or the marketing exclusivity provided for them in the United States or the European Union, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. While orphan drug status for any of our products would provide market exclusivity in the United States and the European Union, for the time periods specified above, we would not be able to exclude other companies from manufacturing and/or selling products using the same active ingredient for the same indication beyond the exclusivity period applicable to our product on the basis of orphan drug designation. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that another company will not receive approval before we do of an orphan drug application in the United States or the European Union for a product candidate that has the same active ingredient or is a similar medicinal product, respectively, for the same indication as any of our drug candidates for which we plan to file for orphan status. If that were to happen, our orphan drug applications for our product candidate for that indication may not be approved until the competing company’s period of exclusivity has expired in the United State or the European Union. Further, application of the orphan drug regulations in the United States and Europe is uncertain and we cannot predict how the respective regulatory bodies will interpret and apply the regulations to our or our competitors’ product candidates. -32- Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain or maintain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired and our business will not be successful. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, commercialization, marketing, selling and distribution of drug products are subject to extensive regulation by state authorities and the FDA in the United States and other regulatory authorities in other countries, with regulations differing from country to country. Marketing of our product candidates in the United States or foreign countries is not permitted until we obtain the required approvals from the FDA or other applicable foreign regulatory authorities. Obtaining marketing approval is generally a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process in the United States and other countries and approval is not assured for any of our product candidates. Further, the FDA and other foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion in the approval process, and the determination of when or whether regulatory approval, of any type, will be granted for any product candidate we develop. In this regard, even if we believe data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates are promising and our CMC and related manufacturing processes are satisfactory, the FDA or foreign authorities may disagree with our interpretations and determine such data is not sufficient to accept our application or support approval. Furthermore, the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies may approve a product candidate for fewer indications than requested or may grant approval subject to the performance of post-approval or confirmatory studies for a product candidate. Similarly, the FDA or other foreign regulatory agencies may not approve the labeling claims that are necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. In addition, changes in (i) regulatory requirements, (ii) FDA interpretations of scientific developments in diseases targeted by us or our competitors or data and information we submit to the FDA about our product candidates and (iii) FDA guidance and requirements for approval may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols or our approval strategies, including the timing of our expected filings with the FDA, to reflect or address these changes. These changes or amendments may require us to resubmit our clinical trial protocols to institutional review boards (IRBs) or the FDA for review, which may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial, NDA filing and regulatory approval for a product candidate. A therapeutic commercial product utilizing our RNA-based technologies and the manufacturing techniques necessary to produce them at commercial scale have never been approved or validated by any regulatory authority and the FDA may require the Company to make or develop changes in its protocols that will take time and resources, sometimes not estimable, to develop. In addition, the FDA may not approve of the trial designs, protocols and regulatory filings or the timing of the same that we use for our product candidates, including for the pivotal clinical study and NDA filing for eteplirsen, and the FDA may decline to approve our products, including eteplirsen, on this basis. Changes in the approval process for our product candidates, including those described above, may require additional studies or require the Company to address additional issues or requests that were not originally planned, budgeted for or expected by the Company. Other factors may also impact our ability to obtain or impact the timing of approval for our product candidates, affect the receptiveness of regulators to our compounds, protocols or otherwise impact the regulatory process for our drug candidates including regulatory or other setbacks faced by third parties developing similar compounds or developing drug candidates targeting the same, similar or related diseases as those targeted by our drug candidates. For example, in one of our most recent meetings with the FDA, based on recent developments in natural history studies and other data from clinical trials for investigational drugs developed by other companies, the FDA indicated it has considerable doubt about the use of dystrophin as a biomarker and questioned the efficacy support provided by the 6MWT in our ongoing open label study. Our exon-skipping therapy uses antisense oligonucleotides and, to date, only one antisense oligonucleotide has been approved by the FDA for systemic use and no product using antisense oligonucleotides for systemic use has been approved for sale in the European Union. We cannot be certain that our technology will meet applicable safety and efficacy standards or that we will be able to comply with all the requirements, including those relating to trial design or protocols for studies for our product candidates, of regulatory authorities. Due to these factors, among others, our current product candidates or any of our other future product -33- Table of Contents candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain regulatory approval, which could delay or eliminate any potential commercialization or product revenue for any of our product candidates. We continue to work with the FDA in our pursuit to obtain FDA approval of eteplirsen. The Company believes that the new issues and concerns raised by the FDA in recent meetings with the Company may result in delays in commencing the Company’s pivotal clinical study as well as its filing of an NDA for eteplirsen. The Company does not currently have enough information at this time to determine the length of such delays, although we are working towards beginning an eteplirsen pivotal clinical study and dosing the first patient in the second or third quarter of 2014. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any submission or application will be accepted by the FDA (e.g., refusal to file) or that any expedited or regular development, review or approval will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. The FDA or other foreign authorities could also request additional information or meetings with us or require us to conduct further studies or CMC-related work (e.g., a complete response letter) prior to considering our application or granting approval of any type. A failure to obtain accelerated approval or any other form of expedited development, review or approval for eteplirsen or any of our other product candidates would result in a longer time period for commercialization of such product candidate, could potentially increase the cost of development of such product candidate, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and could harm our competitive position in the marketplace. Additionally, even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and oversight, including adverse event reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and, potentially, other post-marketing obligations such as confirmatory studies, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize any such products. The FDA’s policies may also change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States, or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, we may not be permitted to market our products and our business could suffer. Any delay in, or failure to, receive or maintain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates could harm our business and prevent us from ever generating meaningful revenues or achieving profitability. We will also need to obtain regulatory approval from regulatory authorities in foreign countries to market our product candidates in those countries. We have not submitted an application for regulatory approval to market our product candidates in any foreign jurisdiction. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. If we fail to obtain approvals from foreign jurisdictions, the geographic market for our product candidates would be limited. Our preclinical and clinical trials may fail to demonstrate acceptable levels of safety and efficacy of our product candidates, which could prevent or significantly delay their regulatory approval. To obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to market and sell any of our product candidates, we must demonstrate, through extensive preclinical and clinical studies that the product candidate is safe and effective in humans. Ongoing and future preclinical and clinical trials of our product candidates may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain regulatory approvals. For example, in 2012, we completed Study 201, a U.S.-based Phase IIb 12 person clinical trial for eteplirsen at 30 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg. Following completion of this study, we initiated Study 202, an ongoing open label extension study with the same participants from Study 201. These trials were initiated, in part, to further demonstrate efficacy and safety, including the production of dystrophin, and explore and identify a more consistently effective dose that may be more appropriate for future clinical trials. While Studies 201 and 202 met their primary endpoints at weeks 24 and 48 respectively, and results reported for weeks 62, 74, 84, 96 and 120 supported stabilization of disease progression, we cannot assure you that data from the ongoing open label -34- Table of Contents extension study will be sufficient for regulatory approval or will continue to be positive through the remaining study period. If these extension data are not sufficient to demonstrate safety and efficacy to regulators, do not continue to demonstrate safety and efficacy through the remainder of Study 202, or are insufficient to identify a consistently effective dose, we expect we will need to make progress in our discussions with regulatory authorities about the design and subsequent execution of any further studies that may be required. Regulatory authorities might require more extensive information or preclinical or clinical trials than anticipated. Such clinical trials might include additional open label “extension studies” for all participants, who have previously received eteplirsen, as well as other participants (e.g., non-ambulatory participants), additional placebo-controlled “pivotal” or “confirmatory” study or studies, or other additional trials before conducting a pivotal clinical study of the product candidate. Any additional requirements for regulatory approval would increase our costs and delay submissions, studies and commercialization of eteplirsen. We may not be able to, or it may be difficult for us to conform to regulatory guidance, including related to clinical trial design and the timing of NDA filings, and even if we conform to any guidance regulatory authorities provide, it does not guarantee receipt of marketing approval, even if we believe our preclinical and clinical trials are successful. Furthermore, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that the ongoing Study 202 and later larger-scale trials will be successful nor does it predict final results. Acceptable results in early trials may not be reproduced in the remainder of the Study 202 extension study or later trials. For example, a pivotal clinical study for eteplirsen will likely involve a larger number of patients, will be expensive and will take a substantial amount of time to complete. As a result, we may conduct lengthy and expensive clinical trials of our product candidates, only to learn that the product candidate is not an effective treatment or is not superior to existing approved therapies, or has an unacceptable safety profile, which could prevent or significantly delay regulatory approval for such product candidate. We currently rely on certain third-party manufacturers and other third parties for production of our product candidates and our dependence on these manufacturers may impair the advancement of our research and development programs and the development of our product candidates. We do not currently have the internal ability to manufacture our product candidates in the quantities that we need to conduct our clinical trials and we rely upon a limited number of manufacturers to supply our product candidates and the components of our drug substances. We also need to rely on manufacturers for the production of our product candidates to support our research and development programs. In addition, we rely on other third parties to perform additional steps in the manufacturing process, including filling and labeling of vials and storage of our product candidates. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to rely on contract manufacturers and other third parties to produce product candidates and their components, fill vials, and store sufficient quantities of our product candidates for research and development programs, clinical trials and potential commercial supply. For each of our eteplirsen, Marburg and other development programs, based on limited capacity for our specialized manufacturing needs we have had to enter into limited or, at times, non-exclusive sole-source agreements with multinational manufacturing firms for the production of the active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) for eteplirsen, Marburg and other therapeutics. There are a limited number of companies that can produce APIs in the quantities and with the quality and purity that we require. Establishing a relationship with alternative suppliers can be a lengthy process and might cause delays in our development efforts. If we are required to seek alternative supply arrangements, the resulting delays and potential inability to find a suitable replacement could materially and adversely impact our business. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain high quality standards, including failure to detect or control anticipated or unanticipated manufacturing errors, could result in patient injury or death or product recalls. Contract drug manufacturers often encounter difficulties involving production yields, quality control and quality assurance and shortages of qualified personnel. If our contract manufacturers or other third parties fail to deliver our product candidates for our research and development programs, clinical use or potential commercial supply on a timely basis, with sufficient quality, and at commercially reasonable prices, and we fail to find replacement manufacturers or to develop our own -35- Table of Contents manufacturing capabilities, we may be required to delay or suspend clinical trials, research and development programs, commercial supply or otherwise discontinue development and production of our product candidates. In addition, we currently depend on certain third-party vendors, which in some cases may be sole sources, for the supply of raw materials used to produce our product candidates. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with sufficient quantities of quality raw materials and we are unable to contract on acceptable terms for these raw materials with alternative suppliers, if any, our ability to have our product candidates manufactured in sufficient quantities for preclinical testing, clinical trials, and potential commercial use would be adversely affected. We do not yet have all of the agreements necessary for the supply of APIs and raw materials for the production of any of our product candidates in quantities sufficient for the potential commercial demand and we may not be able to establish or maintain sufficient commercial manufacturing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms. Securing commercial quantities of our product candidates and their components from contract manufacturers will require us to commit significant capital and resources. We may also be required to enter into long-term manufacturing agreements that contain exclusivity provisions and/or substantial termination penalties. In addition, contract manufacturers have a limited number of facilities in which our product candidates can be produced and any interruption of the development or operation of those facilities due to events such as order delays for equipment or materials, equipment malfunction or failure or damage to the facility by natural disasters could result in the cancellation of shipments, loss of product in the manufacturing process or a shortfall in available product candidates or materials. Our contract manufacturers are required to produce our clinical product candidates under current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) conditions in order to meet acceptable standards for our clinical trials. If such standards change, the ability of contract manufacturers to produce our product candidates on the schedule we require for our clinical trials may be affected. In addition, contract manufacturers may not perform their agreements with us or may discontinue their business before the time required by us to successfully produce and market our product candidates. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over a third-party manufacturer’s compliance with these regulations and standards. Any difficulties or delays in our contractors’ manufacturing and supply of product candidates or any failure of our contractors to maintain compliance with the applicable regulations and standards could increase our costs, make us postpone or cancel clinical trials, prevent or delay regulatory approval by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign authorities, prevent the import and/or export of our products, cause us to lose revenue, or cause our products to be recalled or withdrawn. We may not be able to successfully scale-up manufacturing of our product candidates in sufficient quality and quantity, which would delay or prevent us from developing our product candidates and commercializing resulting approved drug products, if any. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for preclinical studies and early stage clinical trials. As we prepare for later stage clinical trials in eteplirsen and potential commercialization, we are working to increase the scale of production of our drug product in 2014. During 2014, we will also continue to evaluate whether and when to increase API production capacity which will depend in significant part on feedback from the FDA and our expectations regarding if and when we would commence a pivotal clinical study for eteplirsen and any subsequent commercialization. In order to conduct larger or late-stage scale clinical trials for a product candidate and supply sufficient quantities of the resulting drug product and its components, if that product candidate is approved for sale, we will need to manufacture it in larger quantities. We may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates, whether in collaboration with third-party manufacturers or on our own, in a manner that is timely, safe, compliant with cGMP or other applicable legal or regulatory standards or cost-effective or at all. If a contract manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our product candidates, we may not own, or may have to share, -36- Table of Contents the intellectual property rights to those improvements. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional processes, technologies and validation studies, which are costly, may not be successful and which the FDA must review and approve. In addition, quality issues may arise during those scale-up activities because of the inherent properties of a product candidate itself or of a product candidate in combination with other components added during the manufacturing and packaging process, or during shipping and storage of the finished product or active pharmaceutical ingredients. If we are unable to successfully scale-up manufacture of any of our product candidates in sufficient quality and quantity, the development of that product candidate and regulatory approval or commercial launch for any resulting drug products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply, which could significantly harm our business. In addition, in order to release product and demonstrate stability of product candidates for use in late stage clinical trials (and any subsequent drug products for commercial use), our analytical methods must be validated in accordance with regulatory guidelines. We may not be able to successfully validate our analytical methods or demonstrate adequate purity, stability or comparability of the product candidates in a timely or cost-effective manner or at all. If we are unable to successfully validate our analytical methods or to demonstrate adequate purity, stability, or comparability, the development of our product candidates and regulatory approval or commercial launch for any resulting drug products may be delayed, which could significantly harm our business. We rely on U.S. government contracts to support certain research and development programs and for substantially all of our revenue. If the U.S. government fails to fund such programs on a timely basis or at all, or such contracts are terminated, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on U.S. government contracts and awards to fund and support certain development programs, including the Marburg program which accounts for substantially all of our current revenue. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years, as is the case with our DoD contract for the development of our Marburg product candidate. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. If appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contracts may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. government, which could have a negative impact on our future revenue under such contract or subcontract. From time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, Congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. During such a period, or until the regular appropriation bills are passed, delays can occur in U.S. government procurement due to lack of funding and such delays can affect our operations during the period of delay. The DoD operated under such a continuing resolution for the U.S. government’s fiscal year 2013. Additionally, on March 1, 2013, a sequestration went into effect which implements across-the-board cuts to U.S. government agencies, totaling $1.2 trillion over 10 years. These cuts are to be split 50-50 between domestic and defense discretionary spending. The DoD had to make $47 billion in cuts before September 30, 2013. While Congress struck a two-year budget deal to provide sequester relief in 2014 and 2015, the deal lessens the cuts but does not cancel the sequestration. These and other potential budget cuts by the U.S. government as well as the effects of U.S. government shutdowns could have widespread ramifications including on the DoD’s procurement and research and development programs. Sequestration may result in a reduction of funds available for new procurements, but existing contracts may also be reduced in scope, terminated, or partially terminated. The Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS)’ Special Reserve Fund, a $5.6 billion advanced appropriation to be used over 10 years to purchase medical countermeasures, expired at the end of the 2013 fiscal year. Going forward, Congress plans to replenish the Special Reserve Fund through the annual appropriations process introducing uncertainty with respect to availability of funding from year to year. As a result, the viability of the DHHS and its agencies as a partner and potential customer is uncertain. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally also permit the U.S. government to terminate or renegotiate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the U.S. government’s convenience or for -37- Table of Contents default based on performance. From time to time, we receive communications from the U.S. government regarding our performance, including requests for us to provide additional information and/or take certain steps to remedy noted deficiencies. While we work closely with our contacts at the U.S. government and believe we can adequately address issues raised through such communications, there is no guarantee that we will be able to adequately respond to all requests or remedy all deficiencies cited. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been completed to that point. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts. Furthermore, if we fail to satisfy certain performance or deliverable requirements or to adhere to development timelines, revenues associated with the satisfaction of such requirements or timelines may be delayed or may not be realized. The termination of one or more of these U.S. government contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, for our failure to perform, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays or product failures in connection with one or more of these contracts, could negatively impact our financial condition. For example, on October 2, 2012, we received notice from the DoD that the program for the development of our Ebola product candidate was terminated for the convenience of the U.S. government due to funding constraints. We had previously received a stop-work order for the Ebola program which was in effect from August 2, 2012 through the termination on October 2, 2012. If the U.S. government terminates or reduces the Marburg development program or contract, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new U.S. government contracts to offset the revenue lost as a result of termination of any of our existing contracts. Even if our Marburg contract is not terminated and is completed, there is no assurance that we will receive future U.S. government contracts. Even if we successfully complete development of our Marburg and influenza product candidates, the major, if not only, potential purchaser is the U.S. government. The lack of a commercial market makes us reliant upon the U.S. government to determine and communicate the market for biodefense countermeasures and U.S. government purchasing is subject to evolving threat assessments and shifting political priorities, which exacerbate market uncertainties. Within the DoD, the war fighter has evolving requirements including but not limited to those related to route of exposure, time to treat, and manufacturing demands. The FDA’s requirements under the Animal Rule are also evolving which may result in additional studies being needed to characterize appropriate animal models. It is unclear whether funding will continue to be available to address evolving DoD and FDA requirements, and until future studies are completed, it is unclear whether our product candidates will successfully meet these requirements. If they do not, the DoD may choose to terminate the contract. Additionally, manufacturing demands may be such as to require enhancements to our manufacturing infrastructure, which DoD may not be able to fund through our existing research and development contract. With respect to the civilian sector, Marburg and influenza viruses are among the top public health threats, yet the broader demand for our product candidates remains uncertain. This expected dependence on U.S. government purchases presents additional challenges, since the U.S. government is incentivized to negotiate prices for countermeasures to just above their marginal cost of production, which would severely limit our profit potential. If companies resist low prices, the U.S. government can, in extreme cases, threaten compulsory licensing or purchase patent-breaching generics. -38- Table of Contents Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated and we may be liable for penalties under a variety of procurement rules and regulations and changes in government regulations or practices could adversely affect our profitability, cash balances or growth prospects. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on our business and our failure to comply with them may lead to penalties and the termination of our U.S. government contracts. Some significant regulations that affect us include: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; and • the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts. Our contracts with the DoD are subject to periodic review and investigation. If such a review or investigation identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. government agencies. We could also suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which would impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. In addition, U.S. government agencies routinely audit and review their contractors’ performance on contracts, cost structure, pricing practices and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Such audits may result in adjustments to our contract costs, and any costs found to be improperly allocated will not be reimbursed. We have recorded contract revenues for the periods presented in this report based upon costs we expect to realize upon final audit; however, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments and, if future audit adjustments exceed our estimates, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, we may be required to enter into agreements and subcontracts with third parties, including suppliers, consultants and other third party contractors in order to satisfy our contractual obligations pursuant to our agreements with the DoD. Any such agreement also has to be compliant with the terms of our government grants. Negotiating and entering into such arrangements can be time-consuming and we may not be able to reach agreement with such third parties. Any delay or inability to enter into such arrangements or entering into such arrangements in a manner that is non-compliant with the terms of our grants, may result in violations of our contracts with the DoD. Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming, may take longer than we expect or may not be completed at all, and their outcomes are uncertain. We have completed a Phase Ib/II clinical trial for eteplirsen in the UK and announced results in October 2010, which were published in The Lancet in July 2011. We have also completed a U.S.-based Phase IIb placebo-controlled trial in eteplirsen and announced results in April 2012. Following completion of this study, we initiated an open label extension study with the same participants from the original Phase IIb placebo-controlled trial and announced 48-week results on October 3, 2012, 62-week results on December 7, 2012, 74-week results on April 5, 2013, 84-week results on June 19, 2013, 96-week results on September 26, 2013 and 120-week results on January 15, 2014. We expect to commence additional trials of eteplirsen and other product candidates in the future based on feedback from the FDA. Each of our clinical trials requires the investment of substantial planning, expense and time, and the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of -39- Table of Contents these clinical trials may be subject to significant delays relating to various causes including new positions, issues and requests made by the FDA based on scientific developments and data from other drugs being developed by other companies for the treatment of diseases similar to or related to those targeted by our product candidates. Participant enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the relevant population, the proximity of participants to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. We depend on medical institutions and clinical research organizations (CROs), to conduct our clinical trials in compliance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and to the extent they fail to enroll participants for our clinical trials, fail to conduct the study to GCP standards or are delayed for a significant time in the execution of our trials, including achieving full enrollment, we may be affected by increased costs, program delays or both, which may harm our business. In addition, we have in the past conducted clinical trials in foreign countries and may do so again in the future, which may subject us to further delays and expenses as a result of increased drug shipment costs, additional regulatory requirements and the engagement of foreign CROs, as well as expose us to risks associated with less experienced clinical investigators who are unknown to the FDA, and different standards of medical care. Foreign currency transactions insofar as changes in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to the foreign currency where the trial is being conducted may impact our actual costs. In addition, for some programs, such as DMD and Marburg infection, there are currently no approved drugs to compare against and an agreement about how to measure efficacy has yet to be reached with the FDA and then demonstrated. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with FDA or other applicable foreign government guidelines and are subject to oversight by the FDA, other foreign governmental agencies and IRBs at the medical institutions where the clinical trials are conducted. The FDA or other foreign governmental agencies or we ourselves could delay, suspend or halt our clinical trials of a product candidate for numerous reasons, including: • Scientific developments and data available for investigational drugs being developed by third parties for the treatment of the same, similar or related diseases to those targeted by our product candidates; • deficiencies in the trial design; • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trial including failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or clinical protocols; • deficiencies in the clinical trial operations or trial sites resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • the product candidate may have unforeseen adverse side effects, including fatalities, or a determination may be made that a clinical trial presents unacceptable health risks; • the methods and time required to determine whether the product candidate is effective may take longer than expected; • fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial that may not be related to clinical trial treatments; • the product candidate may appear to be no more effective than current therapies; • the quality or stability of the product candidate may fail to conform to acceptable standards; • our inability to produce or obtain sufficient quantities of the product candidate to complete the trials; • our inability to reach agreement on acceptable terms with prospective CROs and trial sites, the terms of which can be subject to extensive negotiation and may vary significantly among different CROs and trial sites; • our inability to obtain IRB approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; • our inability to obtain regulatory approval to conduct a clinical trial; • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial, including the occurrence of unforeseen costs due to enrollment delays, requirements to conduct additional trials and studies and increased expenses associated with the services of our CROs and other third parties; -40- Table of Contents • our inability to recruit and enroll individuals to participate in clinical trials for reasons including lack of patients or competition from other clinical trial programs for the same or similar indications; or • our inability to retain participants who have initiated a clinical trial but may be prone to withdraw due to side effects from the therapy, lack of efficacy or personal issues, or who are lost to further follow-up. In addition, we may experience significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials, such as unexpected adverse events that occur when our product candidates are combined with other therapies and drugs or given to larger populations, which often occur in later-stage clinical trials. In addition, clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by regulatory authorities that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Also, patient advocacy groups and parents of trial participants may demand additional clinical trials or continued access to therapies even if our interpretation of clinical results received thus far leads us to determine that additional clinical trials or continued access are unwarranted. Any disagreement with patient advocacy groups or parents of trial participants may require management’s time and attention and may result in legal proceedings being instituted against us, which could be expensive, time-consuming and distracting, and may result in a delay of the program. Negative interpretation of our data by us or regulatory authorities or inconclusive results or adverse medical events, including participant fatalities that may be attributable to our product candidates during a clinical trial may necessitate that it be redesigned, repeated or terminated. Further, some of our clinical trials may be overseen by an independent data and safety monitoring board (DSMB) and a DSMB may determine to delay or suspend one or more of these trials due to safety or futility findings based on events occurring during a clinical trial. Any such delay, suspension, termination or request to repeat or redesign a trial could increase our costs and prevent or significantly delay our ability to commercialize our product candidates. The Animal Rule is a seldom-used approach to seeking approval of a new drug and our infectious disease program may not meet the requirements for this path to regulatory approval. Clinical trials cannot be used to assess the efficacy of most biodefense countermeasures against rare and lethal pathogens due to ethical considerations and the relative infrequency of naturally occurring cases. In the United States, we plan to develop the therapeutic product candidate to treat Marburg virus using the Animal Rule regulatory mechanism. Pursuant to the Animal Rule, the sponsor of a drug product must demonstrate efficacy in animal models and safety in humans. There is no guarantee that the FDA will agree to this approach to the development of our infectious disease product candidate, considering that no validated animal model has been established as predicting human outcomes in the prevention or treatment of any filovirus disease. Animal models represent, at best, a rough approximation of efficacy in humans, and, as such, countermeasures developed using animal models will be untested until their use in humans during an emergency. We have yet to demonstrate the predictive value of our animal studies to the FDA’s satisfaction. If we fail to do so, we will have to demonstrate efficacy of AVI-7288 through adequate well-controlled trials in humans in order to obtain regulatory approval of this product in the United States, which, if possible given that known Marburg outbreaks have only occurred sporadically in Africa, will greatly add to the time and expense required to commercialize this product. Furthermore, the Animal Rule mechanism has been used only rarely and questions remain regarding the FDA’s interpretation and implementation. Of the few times this mechanism has been used as the basis of approval, most of the products approved built upon existing indications with human data to support efficacy previously approved products which had considerable prior human experience. We do not have any experience successfully navigating this approach to drug approval. Even if the Animal Rule represents a viable approach to seeking approval of AVI-7288, it may present challenges for gaining final regulatory approval for this product candidate, including an extended timeline to approval and less predictable study requirements. In addition, the FDA would require post-marketing human efficacy studies if the countermeasure is used in humans, which would most likely be in the aftermath of a bioterrorist attack. The ability to reliably perform efficacy clinical trials in the midst of a national crisis is uncertain. The timing and conduct of animal studies may be further constrained given that filoviruses are classified for use only in BSL-4 laboratories. There are limited laboratories and staff world-wide that can work with these live -41- Table of Contents viruses and companies will be competing for the limited availability of this critical infrastructure to test their countermeasures. Furthermore, we anticipate limits in conforming to good laboratory practice (GLP) requirements given the requirement for BSL-4 containment. We have incurred operating losses since our inception and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We had an operating loss of $90.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 and incurred an operating loss of $29.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $543.2 million and substantially all of our revenues to date have been derived from research and development contracts with the DoD. We have not yet generated any material revenue from product sales and have incurred expenses related to research and development of our technology and product candidates, from general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while building our business infrastructure and acquired in-process research and development resulting from two acquisitions. We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially if and as we: • continue our research, preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates; • acquire or in-license other product candidates; • initiate additional clinical trials for our product candidates; • seek marketing approvals for our product candidates that successfully complete clinical trials; • ultimately establish a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure to commercialize any products for which we may obtain marketing approval; • maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; • increase manufacturing capabilities; • hire additional clinical, quality control and scientific personnel; and • add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our product development and planned future commercialization efforts. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability depends on our ability to raise additional capital, partner one or more programs, complete development of our product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals and market our approved products, if any. It is uncertain when, if ever, we will become profitable and if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to become and remain profitable would decrease the value of the company and could impair our ability to raise capital, maintain our research and development efforts, expand our business or continue our operations. We will likely need additional funds to conduct our planned research, development and manufacturing efforts. If we fail to attract significant capital or fail to enter into strategic relationships, we may be unable to continue to develop our product candidates. We will likely require additional capital from time to time in the future in order to continue the development of product candidates in our pipeline and to expand our product portfolio. The actual amount of funds that we may need will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the success of our research and development efforts, the status of our preclinical and clinical testing, costs and timing relating to securing regulatory approvals and obtaining new patent rights, regulatory changes, competitive and technological developments in the market and future commercialization expenses related to any product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution. An unforeseen change in these factors, or others, might increase our need for additional capital. We would expect to seek additional financing from the sale and issuance of equity or equity-linked or debt securities, and we cannot predict that financing will be available when and as we need financing or that, if -42- Table of Contents available, the financing terms will be commercially reasonable. If we are unable to obtain additional financing when and if we require it or on commercially reasonable terms, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are able to consummate such financings, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected and/or the terms of such financings may adversely affect the interests of our existing stockholders. To the extent we issue additional equity securities or convertible securities, our existing stockholders could experience substantial dilution in their economic and voting rights. For example, through December 31, 2013, we sold an aggregate of approximately 3.4 million shares of our common stock in connection with our July 2013 at-the-market equity offering program. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Further, we may also enter into relationships with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies to perform research and development with respect to our technologies, research programs or to conduct clinical trials and to market our product candidates. Other than pre-clinical collaborations with academic/research institutions and government entities for the development of additional exon-skipping product candidates for the treatment of DMD and a product candidate for the treatment of influenza, we currently do not have a strategic relationship with a third party to perform research or development using our technologies or assist us in funding the continued development and commercialization of any of our programs or product candidates other than that with the U.S. government. Such relationships may require us to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We rely on third parties to provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs. The inadequate performance by or loss of any of these service providers could affect our product candidate development. Several third parties provide services in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs, including in vitro and in vivo studies, assay and reagent development, immunohistochemistry, toxicology, pharmacokinetics, clinical assessments, data monitoring and management and statistical analysis and other outsourced activities. If these service providers do not adequately perform the services for which we have contracted or cease to continue operations and we are not able to quickly find a replacement provider or we lose information or items associated with our product candidates, our development programs may be delayed. Our RNA-based, or antisense, technology has not been incorporated into a therapeutic commercial product and is still at a relatively early stage of development. Our RNA-based platforms, utilizing proprietary PMO-based technology, have not been incorporated into a therapeutic commercial product and are still at a relatively early stage of development. This technology is used in all of our product candidates, including eteplirsen. We are conducting toxicology, pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and other preclinical studies and, although we have conducted Phase I clinical trials for AVI-6003 (we are now pursuing development of AVI-7288, one of the two component oligomers in AVI-6003) and AVI-7100 and conducted a Phase IIb clinical trial in eteplirsen, additional preclinical studies may be required for these product candidates and before other product candidates enter human clinical trials. In addition, preclinical models to study participant toxicity and activity of compounds are not necessarily predictive of toxicity or efficacy of these compounds in the treatment of human disease and there may be substantially different results in clinical trials from the results obtained in preclinical studies. Any failures or setbacks in utilizing our PMO-based technology, including adverse effects resulting from the use of this technology in humans, could have a detrimental impact on our product candidate pipeline and our ability to maintain and/or enter into new corporate collaborations regarding these technologies, which would negatively affect our business and financial position. -43- Table of Contents If we fail to retain our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, our future growth, ability to perform our U.S. government contracts and our ability to compete would suffer. We are highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of the principal members of our senior management. Additionally, we have scientific personnel with significant and unique expertise in RNA-based therapeutics and related technologies and personnel with experience overseeing compliance with and execution of the terms of our U.S. government contracts. The loss of the services of any one of the principal members of our managerial, scientific or government contract compliance staff may prevent us from achieving our business objectives. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field and for qualified personnel with government contracting experience is intense, and our future success depends upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate such personnel. In order to develop and commercialize our products successfully, we will be required to retain key managerial, scientific and government contract compliance staff. In certain instances, we may also need to expand or replace our workforce and our management ranks. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. If we are unable to attract, assimilate or retain such key personnel, our ability to advance our proprietary programs and perform our U.S. government contracts would be adversely affected. Any failure to perform under our U.S. government contracts could result in a termination of the agreement, which would harm our business. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, execute our business strategy and effectively implement compliance controls and systems, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Although we did not have a material error in our financial statements, we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. Any ongoing failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect investor confidence in our reported financial information. We are a development stage company and anticipate continued growth in our business operations due, in part, to advancing our product candidates. This future growth could create a strain on our organizational, administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our growth properly and maintain compliance with all applicable rules and regulations will require us to continue to improve our operational, legal, financial and management controls, as well as our reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to build the management and human resources and infrastructure necessary to support the growth of our business. The time and resources required to implement systems and infrastructure that may be needed to support our growth is uncertain, and failure to complete this in a timely and efficient manner could adversely affect our operations. For example, although there was no material error in our financial statements, in connection with our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A detailed description of this material weakness is provided in “Item 9A, Controls and Procedures.” We have adopted new procedures for the review of material contracts by our accounting staff to address this material weakness, however, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement new or improved internal controls, or any difficulties that we may encounter in their maintenance or implementation, could result in additional material weaknesses or material misstatements in our financial statements and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or prevent fraud, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to build the human resources and infrastructure necessary to support the growth of our business or to appropriately implement our compliance controls and procedures. The time and resources required to build up our human resources and implement systems and infrastructure that may be needed to support our growth and compliance with applicable rules and regulations is uncertain, and failure to complete these in a timely and efficient manner could adversely affect our operations. -44- Table of Contents We may engage in future acquisitions or collaborations with other entities that increase our capital requirements, dilute our stockholders, cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities and subject us to other risks. We actively evaluate various strategic transactions on an ongoing basis, including licensing or acquiring complementary products, technologies or businesses. Potential acquisitions or collaborations with other entities may entail numerous risks, including increased operating expenses and cash requirements, assimilation of operations and products, retention of key employees, diversion of our management’s attention and uncertainties in our ability to maintain key business relationships of the acquired entities. In addition, if we undertake acquisitions, we may issue dilutive securities, assume or incur debt obligations, incur large one-time expenses and acquire intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense. Our success, competitive position, and future revenues, if any, depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our product candidates, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We currently hold various issued patents and exclusive rights to issued patents and own and have licenses to various patent applications, in each case in the United States as well as rights under European patents and patent applications. We anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the United States and in other countries. The patent process, however, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining and defending patents or in avoiding infringement of the rights of others. The risks we face on the intellectual property front include the following: • our patent rights might be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or otherwise might not provide any competitive advantage; • as a matter of public policy, there might be significant pressure on governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection or impose compulsory licenses for disease treatments that prove successful; and • jurisdictions other than the U.S. might have less restrictive patent laws than the U.S., giving foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop, and market competing products. In addition, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”) and patent offices in other jurisdictions have often required that patent applications concerning pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology-related inventions be limited or narrowed substantially to cover only the specific innovations exemplified in the patent application, thereby limiting the scope of protection against competitive challenges. Accordingly, even if we or our licensors are able to obtain patents, the patents might be substantially narrower than anticipated. On September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to U.S. patent law, including provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The USPTO has issued regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, but many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act have only recently become effective. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Additionally, the U.S. Supreme Court has issued decisions, the full impact of which are not yet known. For example, on March 20, 2012 in Mayo Collaborative Services, DBA Mayo Medical Laboratories, et al. v. Prometheus Laboratories, Inc., the Court held that several claims drawn to measuring drug metabolite levels from patient samples and correlating them to drug doses were not patentable subject matter. The decision appears -45- Table of Contents to impact diagnostics patents that merely apply a law of nature via a series of routine steps and it has created uncertainty around the ability to patent certain biomarker-related method claims. Additionally, on June 13, 2013 in Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics, Inc., the Court held that claims to isolated genomic DNA are not patentable, but claims to complementary DNA molecules were held to be valid. The effect of the decision on patents for other isolated natural products is uncertain and as with the Leahy-Smith Act, these decisions could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our business prospects will be impaired if third parties successfully assert that our product candidates or technologies infringe proprietary rights of such third parties. Our competitors may make significant investments in competing technologies, might have or obtain patents that limit, interfere with, or eliminate our ability to make, use, and sell our product candidates in important commercial markets. If our product candidates or technologies infringe enforceable, proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial costs and may have to: • obtain rights or licenses from others, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • abandon development of an infringing product candidate; • redesign product candidates or processes to avoid infringement; • pay damages; and/or • defend litigation or administrative proceedings which might be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of financial and management resources. Any of these events could substantially harm our potential earnings, financial condition, and operations. Prosensa Holding B.V. (Prosensa), which is developing competitive pipeline products, has rights to patent claims that, absent a license, may preclude us from commercializing eteplirsen in several jurisdictions. Prosensa has rights to European Patent No. EP 1619249, for example. We opposed this patent in the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office, and the Opposition Division maintained certain claims of this patent relating to the treatment of DMD by skipping dystrophin exons 51 and 46, which may provide a basis to maintain that commercialization of eteplirsen in the European Union would infringe on such patent. Both we and Prosensa have appealed the Opposition Division decision, submitted briefs in support of our respective positions and have also submitted responses to each other’s briefs. The Opposition Division decision if maintained at the appeals level could have a substantial effect on our businesses and leaves open the possibility that Prosensa or other parties that have rights to such patent could assert that our drug eteplirsen infringes on such patent. The timing and outcome of appeal cannot be predicted or determined as of the date of this report. We are also aware of existing patent claims Prosensa is pursuing in the United States, and others that it is pursuing, in other jurisdictions, including Japan, that may provide the basis for Prosensa or other parties to assert that commercialization of eteplirsen would infringe on such claims. The DMD patent landscape is continually evolving and multiple parties, both commercial entities and academic institutions, may have rights to claims or may be pursuing additional claims that could provide these parties a basis to assert that our product candidates infringe on the intellectual property rights of those parties. Similarly, we may be able to assert that certain activities engaged in by these parties infringe on our current or future patent rights. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical industries regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We also cannot be certain that other third parties will not assert patent infringement in the future with respect to any of our development program. -46- Table of Contents We face intense competition and rapid technological change, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competitive products. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive and subject to significant and rapid technological change. We are aware of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are actively engaged in research and development in areas related to antisense technology and other RNA technologies or that are developing alternative approaches to or therapeutics for the disease indications on which we are focused. Some of these competitors are developing or testing product candidates that now, or may in the future, compete directly with our product candidates. For example, we believe that companies including Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Isis Pharmaceuticals and Santaris Pharma A/S (Santaris) share a focus on RNA-based drug discovery and development. Competitors with respect to our exon-skipping DMD program, or eteplirsen, include Prosensa and other companies such as PTC Therapeutics and Summit plc have also been working on DMD programs. Although Prosensa/ GSK recently announced that the primary endpoint for their lead DMD drug candidate was not met, we may still face competitive risks arising from the Prosensa exon skipping platform and product candidate pipeline, which may include limitations on our ability to gain market share in the DMD space or other diseases targeted by our exon skipping platform and product candidate pipeline. Other potential competitors include large, fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies that have significantly greater resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing. Also, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and marketing. It is possible that these competitors will succeed in developing technologies that are more effective than our product candidates or that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. Our competitors may, among other things: • develop safer or more effective products; • implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing; • develop less costly products; • obtain regulatory approval more quickly; • have access to more manufacturing capacity; • develop products that are more convenient and easier to administer; • form more advantageous strategic alliances; or • establish superior intellectual property positions. We may be subject to clinical trial claims and our insurance may not be adequate to cover damages. We currently have no products that have been approved for commercial sale; however, the current and future use of our product candidates by us and our collaborators in clinical trials, and the sale of any approved products in the future, may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by consumers or healthcare providers or indirectly by pharmaceutical companies, our collaborators or others selling such products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, we may experience financial losses in the future due to such product liability claims. We have obtained limited general commercial liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates. However, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against all losses. If a successful product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liabilities, our assets may not be sufficient to cover such claims and our business operations could be impaired. -47- Table of Contents Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws, which can be expensive, and may affect our business and operating results. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including organic and inorganic solvents and reagents. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, manufacturing, exposure to, and disposal of these hazardous materials. In addition, we are subject to environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens, and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we believe that our activities conform in all material respects with such environmental laws, there can be no assurance that violations of these laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure, or other causes. Liability under environmental, health and safety laws can be joint and several and without regard to fault or negligence. The failure to comply with past, present or future laws could result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties, remediation costs, property damage and personal injury claims, loss of permits or a cessation of operations, and any of these events could harm our business and financial conditions. We expect that our operations will be affected by other new environmental and health and workplace safety laws on an ongoing basis, and although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws, they may impose greater compliance costs or result in increased risks or penalties, which could harm our business. We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cyber security incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of third parties with which we contract are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. System failures, accidents or security breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, and could result in a material disruption of our clinical activities and business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. The loss of clinical trial data could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur a liability and our research and development programs and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. We may incur substantial costs in connection with litigation and other disputes. In the ordinary course of business we may, and in some cases have, become involved in law-suits and other disputes such as securities claims, intellectual property challenges and employee matters. We may not prevail in claims made against us in such disputes. The outcome of such law suits and disputes is inherently uncertain. We do not believe that any of the current lawsuits or disputes faced by us is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but the resolution of such lawsuits or disputes could have a material adverse effect on our results for that period. Also, lawsuits or claims brought against us in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. The market prices for, and trading volumes of, securities of biotechnology companies, including our securities, have been historically volatile. For example, during 2013, our stock traded from a low of $12.89 per share to a high of $53.81 per share. As an additional example, we note that on November 12, 2013 our stock price decreased 64% on the same day that we made an announcement regarding eteplirsen and recent -48- Table of Contents communications we had with the FDA. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: • The timing of our filings with the regulatory authorities and regulatory decisions and developments including the probability of a decision by the FDA to review eteplirsen on an expedited or normal pathway, if at all; • positive or negative results or regulatory interpretations of testing and clinical trials by ourselves, strategic partners, our competitors or other companies with investigational drugs targeting the same, similar or related diseases to those targeted by our product candidates; • delays in beginning and completing preclinical and clinical studies for potential product candidates; • delays in entering or failing to enter into strategic relationships with respect to development and/or commercialization of our product candidates or entry into strategic relationships on terms that are not deemed to be favorable to our company; • technological innovations or commercial product introductions by ourselves or competitors; • changes in government regulations or requirements by regulatory in the approval process; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; • public concern relating to the commercial value or safety of any of our products; • financing, through the issuance of equity or equity linked securities or incurrence of debt, or other corporate transactions; • comments by securities analysts; • litigation; or • general market conditions in our industry or in the economy as a whole. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law might deter acquisition bids for us that might be considered favorable and prevent or frustrate any attempt to replace or remove the then current management and board of directors. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or effect a change in our board of directors and management. These provisions include: • when the board is comprised of six or more directors, classification of our board of directors into two classes, with one class elected each year; • directors may only be removed for cause by the affirmative vote of majority of the voting power of all the then-outstanding shares of voting stock; • prohibition of cumulative voting of shares in the election of directors; • right of the board of directors to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death, disqualification or removal of a director; • express authorization of the board of directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; -49- Table of Contents • prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; • advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms and rights of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, including rights superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; and • a super-majority (66 2/3%) of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of capital stock are required to amend, rescind, alter or repeal our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and our bylaws and in the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by the then-current board of directors. We expect our operating results to fluctuate in future periods, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe they will continue to do so in the future. Some of these fluctuations may be very pronounced such as in the case of the impact to our operating results as a result of our warrant offerings in January and August 2009 of which warrants for an aggregate of 0.8 million shares remain outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2013. Each of these warrants is classified as a derivative liability and accordingly, the fair value of the warrants is recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability, and such fair value is adjusted at each financial reporting date with the adjustment to fair value reflected in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2013, the impact of the change in fair value of these warrants resulted in a $22.0 million loss in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss. The fair value of the warrants is determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton option valuation model. Fluctuations in the assumptions and factors used in the Black-Scholes-Merton model can result in adjustments to the fair value of the warrants reflected on our balance sheet and, therefore, our statement of operations and comprehensive loss. Due to the classification of such warrants and other factors, results of operations are difficult to forecast, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be predictive of future performance. Additionally, our operating results may fluctuate due to the variable nature of our revenue and research and development expenses. Specifically, a change in the timing of activities performed in support of our U.S. government research contracts could either accelerate or defer anticipated revenue from period to period. Likewise, our research and development expenses may experience fluctuations as a result of the timing of activities performed in support of our U.S. government research contracts and the timing and magnitude of expenditures incurred in support of our DMD and other proprietary drug development programs. In one or more future periods, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline. A significant number of shares of our common stock are issuable pursuant to outstanding stock awards and warrants, and we expect to issue additional stock awards and shares of common stock in the future. Exercise of these awards, and sales of shares will dilute the interests of existing security holders and may depress the price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, there were 37.8 million shares of common stock outstanding, outstanding awards to purchase 4.4 million shares of common stock under various incentive stock plans, and outstanding warrants to purchase up to 0.8 million shares of common stock. Additionally, as of December 31, 2013, there were 2.9 million shares of common stock available for future issuance under our Amended and Restated 2011 Equity -50- Table of Contents Incentive Plan and 0.3 million shares of common stock remain available for issuance under the Company’s 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. In addition, we may issue additional common stock and warrants from time to time to finance our operations. We may also issue additional shares to fund potential acquisitions or in connection with additional stock options or other equity awards granted to our employees, officers, directors and consultants under our Amended and Restated 2011 Equity Incentive Plan, our 2013 Employee Stock Purchase Plan or our 2014 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or warrants to purchase common stock, perception that such issuances may occur, or exercise of outstanding warrants or options may have a dilutive impact on other stockholders and could have a material negative effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 