Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Affecting Future Operating Results The following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and prospects for the future. If risks described below actually occur, our operating results and financial condition would likely suffer and the trading price of our common stock may fall, causing a loss of some or all of an investment in our common stock. In addition, there may be additional risks not known to us or understood by us which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and the price of our stock. If we fail to attract significant additional capital, we may be unable to continue to successfully develop our products. Since we began operations, we have obtained operating funds primarily by selling shares of our common stock. Based on our current plans, we believe that current cash balances will be sufficient to meet our operating needs for the current fiscal year. Furthermore, the actual amount of funds that we will need will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the success of our research and development efforts, the status of our pre-clinical and clinical testing, costs relating to securing regulatory approvals and the costs and timing of obtaining new patent rights, regulatory changes, competition and technological developments in the market. We may need funds sooner than currently anticipated. If necessary, potential sources of additional funding could include strategic relationships, public or private sales of shares of our stock, or debt, or other arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional funding when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, the ownership interest of our existing shareholders will be diluted. If we are unable to obtain financing when needed, our business and future prospects would be materially adversely affected. Our products are in an early stage of research and development and may not be determined to be safe or effective. We are in the early stages of clinical development with respect to our RNA therapeutics pharmaceutical products. We have devoted almost all of our resources to research and development of our product candidate, protecting our proprietary rights and establishing strategic alliances. Our potential products are in the pre-clinical or clinical stages of research and development and will require significant further research, development, clinical testing and regulatory clearances. We have no products available for sale and we do not expect to have any products available for sale for several years. Our products could be found to be ineffective or toxic, or could fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances. We have not received any significant revenues from the sale of products and we may not successfully develop marketable products that will increase sales and, given adequate margins, make us profitable. Third parties may develop superior or equivalent, but less expensive, products. We rely on U.S. government contracts to support several important R&D programs. We rely on U.S. government contracts and awards to fund several of our development programs, including those for the Ebola and Marburg viruses. The termination of one or more of these contracts, whether due to lack of funding, for convenience, or otherwise, or the occurrence of delays or product failures in connection with one or more of 10 Table of Contents these contracts, could negatively impact our financial condition. Furthermore, we can give no assurance that we would be able to procure new U.S. government contracts to offset the revenues lost as a result of any termination of our contracts. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to Congressional appropriations. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may extend over several fiscal years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. In the event that appropriations for one of our programs become unavailable, or are reduced or delayed, our contracts may be terminated or adjusted by the government, which could have a negative impact on our future sales under such a contract or subcontract. From time to time, when a formal appropriation bill has not been signed into law before the end of the U.S. government’s fiscal year, Congress may pass a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. government to continue to operate, generally at the same funding levels from the prior year, but does not authorize new spending initiatives, during a certain period. During such a period (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), delays can occur in government procurement due to lack of funding, and such delays can affect our operations during the period of delay. In addition, U.S. government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government’s convenience or for default based on performance. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts. If we fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to develop and commercialize our products. All of our products are subject to extensive regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and by comparable agencies in other countries. The FDA and these agencies require new pharmaceutical products to undergo lengthy and detailed preclinical and clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming compliance procedures. We do not know when, or if, we will be able to submit our products for regulatory review. Even if we submit a new drug application, there may be delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, if we obtain them at all. Sales of our products outside the United States will also be subject to regulatory requirements governing clinical trials and product approval. These requirements vary from country to country and could delay introduction of our products in those countries. We cannot assure you that any of our products will receive marketing approval from the FDA or comparable foreign agencies. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional, highly skilled personnel required for our activities, our business will suffer. The loss of key employees could significantly delay the achievement of our goals. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense, and our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. To date, we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be challenging and costly, and our failure to do so could harm our ability to compete and impair the outcome of our operations. Our success will depend on our existing patents and licenses (222 patents (domestic and foreign) issued or licensed to us, and 196 (domestic and foreign) pending patent applications) and our ability to obtain additional patents in the future. We license patents from other parties for certain complementary technologies. Some of our patents on core technologies expired in 2008, including for our basic PMO chemistry. Based on patented improvements and additions to such core patents, however, we believe our patent protection for those products and other products extend beyond 2020. 11 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that pending patent applications will result in patents being issued in the United States or foreign countries. In addition, the patents that have been or will be issued may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that do not conflict with our patents. Others may challenge our patents and, as a result, our patents could be narrowed or invalidated. The patent position of biotechnology firms generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and has recently been the subject of much litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents. In addition, there is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the USPTO and the approval or rejection of patents may take several years. Our success will also depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others as well as our ability to prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. We may be required at times to take legal action to protect our proprietary rights and, despite our best efforts, we may be sued for infringing on the patent rights of others. We have not received any communications or other indications from owners of related patents or others that such persons believe our products or technology may infringe their patents. Patent litigation is costly and, even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could adversely affect our financial condition. If we do not prevail, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain a license, our business might be materially adversely affected. To help protect our proprietary rights in unpatented trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. However, such agreements may not provide us with adequate protection if confidential information is used or disclosed improperly. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Further, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We depend on our partners for critical functions. Therefore, if our collaborations or strategic relationships are unsuccessful, our business could be harmed. Our strategic relationships are important to our success. The discovery, development and marketing of many of our key therapeutic products are or will be dependent in large part on the efforts of our strategic partners. The transactions contemplated by our agreements with strategic partners, including the equity purchases and cash payments, are subject to numerous risks and conditions. The occurrence of any of these events could severely harm our business. We anticipate entering into relationships with larger pharmaceutical companies to conduct late stage clinical trials and to market our products. We also plan to use contract manufacturing for late stage clinical and commercial quantities of our products. We may be unable to enter into partnerships or other relationships, which could impede our ability to bring our products to market. Any such partnerships, if entered into at all, may be on less than favorable terms and may not result in the successful development or marketing of our products. If we are unsuccessful in establishing advantageous clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing relationships, we are not likely to generate significant revenues and become profitable. To fully realize the potential of our products, including development, production and marketing, we may need to establish other strategic relationships. We may get unexpected results from, or have trouble conducting, our clinical studies. Not only do any clinical studies need to be agreed with regulatory authorities beforehand, especially in the case of phase III or pivotal studies, but they have to be successfully executed. Preclinical as well as clinical studies are experiments designed to test a theory or hypothesis, and by their very nature, the result is unknown at the time the study is started. Sometimes unexpected results occur and the product does not demonstrate effectiveness (even though it may be effective), or an unexpected safety issue is encountered. In addition in rare diseases, other companies may be testing their products which will prevent AVI from testing its candidate products. 12 Table of Contents We have incurred net losses since our inception and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred a net loss of $24.0 million in 2008 and $27.2 million in 2007. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $250.3 million. Our losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in research and development of our technology and products and from selling, general and administrative expenses that we have incurred while building our business infrastructure. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses in the future as we continue our research and development efforts and seek to obtain regulatory approval of our products. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability to raise additional capital, complete development of our products, obtain regulatory approvals and market our products. It is uncertain when, if ever, we will become profitable. Our ability to be successful against our competitors cannot be assured. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with a number of well established firms performing leading-edge research for the development of new products to treat a wide range of diseases. These companies have obtained patents for their intellectual property rights that could preclude other companies from using similar technologies in their product development. Moreover, companies which are focused on the treatment of similar diseases are in effect competing for the same limited number of potential patients. Even if we are able to develop new products for market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively or profitably against our competitors. We may be subject to clinical trial claims and our insurance may not be adequate to cover damages. We believe we carry adequate insurance for our current product development research. In the future, commercial sale and use of our products will expose us to the risk of clinical trial claims. Although we intend to obtain product liability insurance coverage, product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms and our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us. A product liability claim, even one without merit or for which we have substantial coverage, could result in significant legal defense costs, thereby increasing our expenses, lowering our earnings and, depending on revenues, potentially resulting in additional losses. We use hazardous substances in our research activities. We use organic and inorganic solvents and reagents in our clinical development that are customarily used in pharmaceutical development and synthesis. Some of these chemicals, such as methylene chloride, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl acetate and acetone, may be classified as hazardous substances, are flammable and, if exposed to human skin, can cause anything from irritation to severe burns. We receive, store, use and dispose of such chemicals in compliance with all applicable laws with containment storage facilities and contained handling and disposal safeguards and procedures. We are routinely inspected by federal, state and local governmental and public safety agencies regarding our storage, use and disposal of such chemicals, including the federal Occupational, Safety and Health Agency (“OSHA”), the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (“DEQ”) and local fire departments, without any material noncompliance issues in such inspections to date. Further, our usage of such chemicals is limited and falls below the reporting thresholds under federal law. Based on our limited use of such chemicals, the nature of such chemicals and the safeguards undertaken by the Company for storage, use and disposal, we believe we do not have any material exposure for toxic tort liability. Further, the cost of such compliance is not a material cost in our operating budget. While we do not have toxic tort liability insurance at this time, we believe our current insurance coverage is adequate to cover most liabilities that may arise from our use of such substances. If we are wrong in any of our beliefs, we could incur a liability in certain circumstances that would be material to our finances and the value of an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Share Ownership Our right to issue preferred stock, our classified Board of Directors and Oregon Anti-Takeover laws may delay a takeover attempt and prevent or frustrate any attempt to replace or remove the then current management of the Company by shareholders. 13 Table of Contents Our authorized capital consists of 200 million shares of common stock and 20 million shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors, without any further vote by the shareholders, has the authority to issue preferred shares and to determine the price, preferences, rights and restrictions, including voting and dividend rights, of these shares. The rights of the holders of shares of common stock may be affected by the rights of holders of any preferred shares that our Board of Directors may issue in the future. For example, our Board of Directors may allow the issuance of preferred shares with more voting rights, preferential dividend payments or more favorable rights upon dissolution than the shares of common stock or special rights to elect directors. In addition, we have a “classified” Board of Directors, which means that only one-half of our directors are eligible for election each year. Therefore, if shareholders wish to change the composition of our Board of Directors, it could take at least two years to remove a majority of the existing directors or to change all directors. Having a classified Board of Directors may, in some cases, delay mergers, tender offers or other possible transactions that may be favored by some or a majority of our shareholders and may delay or frustrate action by shareholders to change the then current Board of Directors and management. The Oregon Control Share Act and Business Combination Act may limit parties that acquire a significant amount of voting shares from exercising control over us for specific periods of time. These acts may lengthen the period for a proxy contest or for a person to vote their shares to elect the majority of our Board and change management. Our stock price is volatile and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. Historically, the market price of our stock has been highly volatile. The following types of announcements could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock: positive or negative results of testing and clinical trials by ourselves, strategic partners, or competitors; delays in entering into corporate partnerships; technological innovations or commercial product introductions by ourselves or competitors; changes in government regulations; developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; public concern relating to the commercial value or safety of any of our products; financing or other corporate transactions; or general stock market conditions. 14 Table of Contents The significant number of our shares of Common Stock eligible for future sale may cause the price of our common stock to fall. We have outstanding 85,644,698 shares of common stock as of March 6, 2009 and all are eligible for sale under Rule 144 or are otherwise freely tradeable. In addition: · Our employees and others hold options to buy a total of 9,054,873 shares of common stock of which 4,865,175 shares were exercisable at March 6, 2009. The options outstanding have exercise prices between $0.60 and $7.35 per share. The shares of common stock to be issued upon exercise of these options have been registered, and, therefore, may be freely sold when issued; · There are outstanding warrants to buy 24,774,687 shares of common stock as of March 6, 2009 with exercise prices ranging from $.0003 to $35.63 per share. Other than warrants to purchase an aggregate of 445,985 shares of common stock issued to ISIS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“ISIS”) in exchange for warrants to purchase shares of Ercole capital stock previously issued by Ercole to ISIS prior to the Company’s acquisition of Ercole, all of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants are registered for resale and may be freely sold when issued, subject to the limitations imposed by applicable securities laws; · We may issue options to purchase up to an additional 811,037 shares of common stock as of March 6, 2009 under our stock option plans, which also will be fully saleable when issued except to the extent limited under Rule 144 for resales by our officers and directors; · We are authorized to sell up to 124,213 shares of common stock under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan to our full-time employees, nearly all of whom are eligible to participate; and Sales of substantial amounts of shares into the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market and we may not be able to maintain that listing, which may make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. The NASDAQ Global Market has several quantitative and qualitative requirements with which companies must comply in order to maintain this listing, including a $1.00 minimum bid price per share and $50 million minimum value of listed securities. If a listed company fails to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price per share requirement for 30 consecutive days, it will receive a notice from NASDAQ mandating that the company achieve compliance with the minimum bid price per share listing requirement within 90 calendar days. Our stock price is currently below $1.00, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the minimum bid price per share requirement. Likewise, based on a closing price of $0.56 per share on such date, the aggregate market value for our listed securities has gone below the $50 million minimum value of listed securities as recently as March 3, 2009, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with this listing requirement. On October 16, 2008, NASDAQ suspended the minimum bid price per share requirement and market value for publicly held shares requirements for all listed companies through January 16, 2009. Recently, NASDAQ extended the suspension of the minimum bid price per share requirement and market value for publicly held shares requirements for all listed companies through April 19, 2009, with enforcement of these rules presently scheduled to resume on April 20, 2009. 15 Table of Contents In order to maintain our listing on NASDAQ, we may seek to transfer our securities listing to The NASDAQ Capital Market, but any such proposed transfer would be subject to our ability to satisfy the listing standards for The NASDAQ Capital Market, which includes, among other things, a $35 million minimum value of listed securities. The level of trading activity of our common stock may decline if it is no longer listed on The NASDAQ Global Market or The NASDAQ Capital Market. As such, if our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on The NASDAQ Stock Market for any reason, it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price and make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock. In addition to the foregoing, if we are not listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market and/or if our public float remains below $75 million, we may be limited in our ability to file new shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 and/or to fully use one or more registration statements on SEC Form S-3. We have relied significantly on shelf registration statements on SEC Form S-3 for most of our financings in recent years, so any such limitations might have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the capital we need. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on our shares of common stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should only invest in our common stock with the expectation of realizing a return through capital appreciation on your investment. You should not invest in our common stock if you are seeking dividend income. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 