Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for MedImmune’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of MedImmune Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule SIGNATURES Schedule II Exhibit Index Exhibits MedImmune, Synagis, CytoGam, Ethyol, FluMist, NeuTrexin, RespiGam and Vitaxin are registered trademarks of the Company. Numax is a trademark of the Company. Accuspray is a trademark of Becton Dickinson. BiTE is a trademark of Micromet AG. Cervarix is a trademark of GlaxoSmithKline. Gardasil is a registered trademark of Merck & Co., Inc. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The statements in this annual report that are not descriptions of historical facts may be forward-looking statements. Those statements involve substantial risks and uncertainties. You can identify those statements by the fact that they contain words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “ intend,” “project” or other terms of similar meaning. Those statements reflect management’s current beliefs, but are based on numerous assumptions, over which MedImmune may have little or no control and that may not develop as MedImmune expects. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the risks, uncertainties and other matters discussed below under Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this report. MedImmune cautions that RSV disease and influenza, two diseases targeted by the Company’s products, occur primarily during the winter months; MedImmune believes its operating results will reflect that seasonality for the foreseeable future. MedImmune is also developing several products for potential future marketing. There can be no assurance that such development efforts will succeed, that such products will receive required regulatory clearance or that, even if such regulatory clearance is received, such products will ultimately achieve commercial success. Unless otherwise indicated, the information in this annual report is as of December 31, 2005. This annual report will not be updated as a result of new information or future events. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS MedImmune is committed to advancing science to develop better medicines that help people live healthier, longer and more satisfying lives. We currently focus our efforts on the areas of infectious disease, cancer and inflammatory disease. We market four products: Synagis (palivizumab) and FluMist (Influenza Virus Vaccine Live, Intranasal) to help prevent two common respiratory infectious diseases; Ethyol (amifostine) to help reduce undesired side effects of certain anti-cancer chemo- and radiotherapies; and CytoGam (cytomegalovirus immune globulin intravenous (human)) to help prevent cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease associated with solid organ transplantation. Founded in 1988 and headquartered in Gaithersburg, Maryland, MedImmune operates facilities in the United States and Europe to manufacture and distribute one or more components of each of its products. We have a U.S.-based marketing team and sales force as well as clinical, research and development staff, through which we are developing a pipeline of product candidates for potential commercialization. In addition to our internal efforts, we have established clinical, research, development, manufacturing and commercialization collaborations with other companies and organizations. Products Synagis Synagis is a humanized monoclonal antibody (“MAb”) approved for marketing in 1998 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract disease caused by respiratory syncytial virus (“RSV”) in pediatric patients at high risk of acquiring RSV disease. RSV is the most common cause of lower respiratory tract infections in infants and children worldwide. Healthy children and individuals with adequate immune systems often catch a benign chest cold when infected with RSV. In contrast, high-risk infants, including children born prematurely or with chronic lung disease, also known as bronchopulmonary dysplasia (“BPD”), and children with certain heart diseases present at birth (hemodynamically significant congenital heart disease (“CHD”)) are at increased risk for acquiring severe RSV disease (pneumonia and bronchiolitis), often requiring hospitalization. Synagis is administered by intramuscular injection once per month during anticipated periods of RSV prevalence in the community, which is typically during the winter months in the Northern Hemisphere. As such, the sales of Synagis reflect this seasonality and occur primarily in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year. Since its launch in 1998, Synagis has been co-promoted by MedImmune and the Ross Products Division of Abbott Laboratories (“Abbott”). In August 2005, we amended this U.S. co-promotion agreement such that we will now take full responsibility for promoting Synagis in the U.S. starting July 1, 2006. Outside the U.S., Abbott International (“AI”), an affiliate of Abbott, exclusively distributes Synagis. Synagis was originally approved by the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”) in 1999 and the Japanese Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (“PMDA”) in 2002 for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract disease caused by RSV. The indication for CHD infants was approved by the EMEA in October 2003 and the PMDA in October 2005. As of December 31, 2005, 64 countries outside the U.S. had approved Synagis for marketing. In February 2005, MedImmune and AI amended the international distribution agreement for Synagis to include the exclusive distribution of Numax, a second-generation, anti-RSV MAb, should the product be approved for marketing by regulatory authorities outside of the United States. Under the terms of the amended agreement, AI will be working to secure regulatory approval of Numax outside of the U.S. and, upon receipt of such approval, will distribute and market Numax outside of the United States. As a part of this amendment, we have the option to co-promote Numax with Abbott in up to seven countries outside of the United States. In the U.S., we intend to market and sell Numax on our own. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we switched from the lyophilized (freeze-dried) formulation of Synagis to the new liquid formulation of Synagis in the United States. The liquid formulation is a product improvement over the lyophilized version that we believe enhances the convenience for physicians in administering the drug and benefits patients by reducing waiting times. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we reported $1,063 million, $942 million, and $849 million, respectively, in worldwide product sales from Synagis representing 87%, 84%, and 86%, respectively, of our total product sales in each of these three years. Ethyol Ethyol is used to help prevent certain unwanted side effects of specific types of chemo- and radiotherapies that are used to treat cancer. In 1999, the FDA approved the use of Ethyol for the reduction of the incidence of moderate-to-severe dry mouth (xerostomia) in patients undergoing post-operative radiation treatment for head and neck cancer, where the radiation port includes a significant portion of the parotid glands. Xerostomia, both acute and chronic, is a debilitating condition in which saliva production is reduced due to damage caused to the salivary glands by therapeutic radiation. Patients with xerostomia are at increased risk of oral infection, dental cavities and loss of teeth, and often have difficulty chewing, swallowing and speaking. Ethyol was initially approved by the FDA in 1995 to reduce the cumulative renal (kidney) toxicity associated with repeated administration of cisplatin (a common chemotherapy agent) to patients with advanced ovarian cancer. In 1996, our supplemental new drug application was also approved under the FDA’s Accelerated Approval Regulations to include treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (“NSCLC”). Products approved under the Accelerated Approval Regulations require further adequate and well-controlled studies to verify and describe clinical benefit. Following completion of such a study, as well as discussions with the FDA on the results of the trial and analysis of changes in the marketplace showing that the use of high-dose cisplatin in this patient population had substantially diminished and is no longer a common treatment in the U.S., we officially withdrew the filing for this indication and modified the label in 2005. We are the sole marketer of Ethyol in the U.S., and outside the U.S. we have various distribution and marketing arrangements for the drug, primarily with affiliates of Schering-Plough Corporation (“Schering”). Ethyol has been approved for marketing in 67 countries worldwide, including the United States. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, we reported worldwide product sales for Ethyol of $95 million, $92 million, and $100 million, respectively, which represented 8%, 8%, and 10%, respectively, of our total product sales in each of these three years. FluMist FluMist is a vaccine approved for marketing in 2003 by the FDA for the prevention of disease caused by influenza A and B viruses in healthy children and adolescents, 5-17 years of age, and healthy adults, 18-49 years of age. The vaccine is delivered as a nasal mist and is a live, attenuated vaccine, meaning that it uses modified and weakened live viruses that stimulate the immune system to help prevent the flu. Each year in the U.S., the influenza virus infects an estimated 17 million to 50 million people, many of whom are otherwise healthy children and adults. Vaccination against the influenza virus in the Northern Hemisphere typically commences in October and may last through the peak of the season, which usually occurs in February. During the 2005/2006 influenza season, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (the “CDC”) Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (the “ACIP”) included FluMist in the federal government’s Vaccines for Children (the “VFC”) program as an alternative to the trivalent injectable influenza vaccine (“TIV”). As a result, the federal government provides FluMist free of charge to healthy children ages 5 to 18 years who meet the eligibility requirements of the VFC program. In 2005, we reported $21 million in total revenues for FluMist, or about 2% of our total revenues. This amount consists of $18 million of product sales of FluMist during the second half of 2005 for the 2005/2006 influenza season and $3 million of product sales in the first quarter of 2005 for the 2004/2005 influenza season. In 2004, we reported $54 million in total revenues for FluMist, or about 5% of our total revenues. This amount was composed of $21 million in product sales of FluMist during the fourth quarter of 2004 for the 2004/2005 influenza season, and $33 million in total revenues related to vaccine sold for the 2003/2004 influenza season that were not reported as revenue until the first half of 2004, representing transfer price revenue for product shipped to Wyeth, our former collaboration partner for FluMist, as well as royalties, supply goal payments and corporate funding from Wyeth. In 2003, we reported $46 million in other revenues for FluMist, or about 4% of our total revenues. This amount was derived solely from milestone and reimbursement payments from Wyeth. CAIV-T (cold adapted intranasal influenza vaccine—trivalent) is our next generation, refrigerator-stable influenza vaccine being developed as a potential improved replacement for FluMist. Toward that end, in December 2005 we announced preliminary results from our pivotal study comparing CAIV-T with TIV, which included 8,475 children between the ages of 6 months through 59 months, and demonstrated that CAIV-T showed a statistically significant reduction (55 percent) in influenza illness caused by any influenza strain compared to TIV. We expect to complete our analysis of the safety and efficacy data from this trial and submit it, along with other supportive data, to the FDA in the second quarter of 2006 requesting priority review for the use of CAIV-T as an alternative to TIV in children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years. In 2005 we announced a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement with the National Institutes of Health to produce and test live, attenuated intranasal influenza vaccines against pandemic influenza strains. This effort will use our proprietary reverse genetics technology, which allows researchers to remove potentially pathogenic portions of a pandemic virus, thereby making the vaccine and its production safer. MedImmune is offering licenses to its reverse genetics technology to other manufacturers of both pandemic and seasonal influenza vaccines. Other Products We also sold two additional products (CytoGam and NeuTrexin (trimetrexate glucuronate for injection)) in 2005, 2004 and 2003 and a third product (RespiGam) in 2004 and 2003 reporting $42 million, $41 million, and $43 million in combined worldwide product sales for each year, respectively. These amounts represent less than 5% of our total reported product sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003. • CytoGam —an intravenous immune globulin product enriched in antibodies against CMV, a herpesvirus. It is indicated for the prevention of CMV disease associated with solid organ transplantation. • NeuTrexin —a lipid-soluble analog of methotrexate, approved for use with concurrent leucovorin administration as an alterative therapy for the treatment of moderate-to-severe Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in immunocompromised patients, such as AIDS patients. • RespiGam —an intravenous immune globulin enriched in neutralizing antibodies against RSV, indicated for the prevention of serious RSV disease in children less than 24 month of age with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) or a history of premature birth (i.e., born at 35 weeks or less gestation). RespiGam, our first anti-RSV product, has been replaced in the marketplace by Synagis, and is no longer manufactured or marketed. Product Candidates A significant portion of our operating expenses are related to the research and development of investigational-stage product candidates. Research and development expenses were $385 million in 2005, $327 million in 2004, and $156 million in 2003. During 2005 and 2004, we also incurred charges for acquired in process research and development (“IPR&D”) of $48 million and $29 million, respectively, in connection with the acquisition of research and development assets that expanded our pipeline. We currently focus our research and development efforts in the therapeutic areas of infectious disease, cancer and inflammatory diseases. Any of our programs in these disease areas could become more significant to us in the future, but there can be no assurance that any program in development or investigation will generate viable marketable products. As such, we continually evaluate all product candidates and may, from time to time, discontinue the development of any given program and focus our attention and resources elsewhere. For example, we discontinued our preclinical research activities targeting TIRC 7 in 2005, and terminated preclinical research relating to technology targeting the enzyme Human Aspartyl (Asparaginyl) Beta-Hydroxylase (HAAH) and PC-cell-derived growth factor (PCDGF) in 2004. We may choose to address new opportunities for future growth in a number of ways including, but not limited to, internal discovery and development of new products, in-licensing of products and technologies, and/or acquisition of companies with products and/or technologies. Any of these activities may require substantial research and development efforts and expenditure of significant amounts of capital. The following table summarizes our current product candidate programs and each is described in greater detail on the following pages: Infectious Disease Immunology Oncology CAIV-T vaccine Anti-IL-9 MAb Human papillomavirus vaccine Numax MAb Anti-IFN-alpha and Anti-IFNaR MAbs Vitaxin MAb Anti-staphylococcal MAb Anti-HMGB-1MAb Siplizumab MAb Epstein-Barr Virus vaccine Anti-CD19, Anti-CD20, and Anti-CD22 MAbs MT-103 BiTE S. pneumoniae vaccine Anti-chitinase MAb Anti-EphA2 MAb RSV/PIV-3/hMPV combination vaccines Listeria-EphA2 vaccine Anti-hMPV MAb Anti-EphA4 MAb Anti-RSV small molecule compounds Anti-EphB4 and Anti-EphrinB2 MAbs Anti-ALK MAb cMET Avimers Anti-Eph peptides Infectious Disease • CAIV-T—CAIV-T is our next generation, refrigerator-stable influenza vaccine being developed as a potential improved replacement of our currently marketed frozen influenza vaccine, FluMist. Toward that end, we completed two Phase 3 studies in 2005: a pivotal trial designed to compare CAIV-T with TIV, and a bridging study designed to establish that CAIV-T and FluMist are biologically equivalent. In December 2005, we announced preliminary results from the pivotal study, which included 8,475 children between the ages of 6 months through 59 months, and demonstrated that CAIV-T showed a statistically significant reduction (55%) in influenza illness caused by any influenza strain compared to TIV. We expect to complete our analysis of the safety and efficacy data from this trial and submit it, along with other supportive data, to the FDA in the second quarter of 2006 requesting priority review for the use of CAIV-T as an alternative to TIV in children between the ages of 6 months and 5 years. Preliminary data from the bridging study, which included 980 healthy participants between the ages of 5 and 49 years, indicated that CAIV-T and FluMist produced similar immune responses. We announced this data in June 2005 and submitted our supplemental Biologics License Application (“sBLA”) to the FDA in September 2005 for approval to use CAIV-T in preventing influenza in healthy individuals 5 to 49 years of age. • Numax MAb— In 2005, we moved forward in a number of clinical trials with Numax, which is being developed as a second-generation anti-RSV MAb that may have greater therapeutic benefits than Synagis. In December 2005, we completed enrolling 6,600 infants in a pivotal Phase 3 trial designed to evaluate Numax’s potential to prevent serious RSV in high-risk infants as compared to Synagis. In 2005, we also completed: a Phase 1/2 trial in high-risk infants; enrollment in a late-stage clinical study in children with CHD; and dosing in a Southern Hemisphere re-dosing trial. We also initiated enrollment for a second season in a Phase 3 feasibility study in full-term Native American infants. Recently accumulated epidemiological data indicate that the risks associated with RSV disease for otherwise healthy, full-term Native American infants is similar to those commonly associated with children considered to be at high-risk to the virus. • Anti-staphylococcal MAb—During 2005, we licensed worldwide rights from GlaxoSmithKline (“GSK”) to develop certain anti-staphylococcal MAbs. The program includes the A110 molecule, which is in development for the prevention of serious bloodstream infections caused by Staphylococcus in low-birthweight infants. A110 is targeted against Staphylococcus, including coagulase negative Staphylococcus, which is a leading cause of bloodstream infections among infants in the neonatal intensive care unit. • Epstein-Barr virus (“EBV”) vaccine—We have rights to a vaccine against certain subunits of EBV, a herpesvirus that is the leading cause of infectious mononucleosis. This vaccine is based upon the major envelope glycoprotein that mediates viral absorption and penetration, and is a major target for the production of neutralizing antibodies stimulated by natural EBV infection. The vaccine is being developed with GSK under a worldwide collaboration, excluding North Korea and South Korea. Data from a 2002 GSK study in Europe showed that the formulations were both well tolerated and highly immunogenic. A Phase 1 trial in patients with cystic fibrosis awaiting lung transplants and a Phase 1 trial in patients awaiting kidney or liver transplants continued in 2005. The vaccine is currently in Phase 2 development. • Streptococcus pneumoniae vaccine—In 2000, we granted a worldwide exclusive license to a Streptococcus pneumoniae vaccine to GSK. Streptococcus pneumoniae is a major cause of pneumonia, middle-ear infections and meningitis worldwide, especially in very young children and in the elderly. During 2005, GSK continued the clinical development efforts with this vaccine in two Phase 1 studies that were started in 2003 and 2004. • Parainfluenza virus type 3 (“PIV-3”)/RSV/human metapneumovirus (“hMPV”) combination vaccines—In 2005, we conducted additional preclinical research and process development to further evaluate the safety and efficacy of live, attenuated intranasal vaccine candidates targeting combinations of PIV-3 with either RSV or hMPV. In January 2005, we filed an investigational new drug (“IND”) application to begin clinical studies of our RSV/PIV-3 candidate vaccine. During the year, we fully enrolled a Phase 1 trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of our lead candidate vaccine in healthy adults. We plan to further advance the RSV/PIV-3 vaccine program before moving ahead with an hMPV/PIV-3 vaccine candidate. • Anti-hMPV MAb—hMPV is a respiratory virus with a high incidence of infection in children under the age of five. Early epidemiological studies indicate that outbreaks of hMPV occur on a seasonal basis, with clinical symptoms that are similar to RSV, ranging from mild respiratory problems to severe cough, bronchiolitis, and pneumonia. The very youngest children infected with hMPV often require hospitalization and mechanical ventilation. During 2005, we continued our preclinical epidemiology study designed to evaluate the prevalence of hMPV lower respiratory tract disease. Hospitalized children with lower respiratory tract disease will be evaluated virologically for hMPV, as well as for RSV and PIV. • Anti-RSV small molecule compounds—During 2005, we entered into a licensing and collaboration agreement with Biota Holdings Limited to develop and commercialize Biota’s small molecule compounds designed to prevent and treat RSV infection. These compounds are orally available drug candidates, and if successfully developed, could expand the RSV market to other susceptible patient groups beyond those groups currently approved for Synagis, such as older children, the elderly and individuals with compromised immune systems. Immunology • Anti-interleukin-9 (“IL-9”) MAb—IL-9 is a naturally occurring cytokine implicated in the pathogenesis of asthma and may contribute to other types of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cystic fibrosis. Data from preclinical studies in models of asthma suggest that IL-9 neutralizing monoclonal antibodies may help reduce airway hyper-reactivity, mucous production and inflammation. During 2005, we continued to enroll patients in a Phase 1 study in which our lead anti-IL-9 antibody was administered subcutaneously. In 2005, we also completed a Phase 1 safety and pharmacokinetics study in which this antibody was administered intravenously to healthy adult volunteers. We are evaluating this molecule as a potential new treatment for symptomatic, moderate-to-severe persistent asthma. • Anti-interferon alpha and anti-type 1 interferon receptor MAbs—During 2004, we announced a collaboration with Medarex, Inc. to develop antibodies targeting interferon-alpha and the type 1 interferon receptor. This collaboration is expected to initially focus on two antibodies, one of which is MEDI-545, for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. In October 2005, we filed an IND application to begin clinical studies of MEDI-545, a MAb targeting interferon-alpha. Preclinical data indicate that levels of interferon-alpha are elevated in many patients with active systemic lupus erythematosus and other autoimmune disorders, and may be associated with disease activity. The second molecule, MEDI-546, is a MAb targeting the type 1 interferon receptor. It is currently in preclinical development. • Anti-high mobility group box chromosomal protein 1 (“HMGB-1”) MAb—HMGB-1 is a late-acting cytokine believed to be involved in the tissue damage associated with a range of inflammatory illnesses, such as rheumatoid arthritis, sepsis and acute lung injury. Preclinical studies to date have suggested that blocking HMGB-1 may help protect against injury associated with many chronic and acute inflammatory diseases, and may reduce sepsis-related deaths. In 2003, we entered into an agreement with Critical Therapeutics, Inc. to co-develop biological products targeting HMGB-1 to treat severe inflammatory diseases. In 2005, we continued to evaluate HMGB-1’s role in a various inflammatory diseases and continued preclinical testing of anti-HMGB-1 antibodies. • Anti-CD19, Anti-CD20 and Anti-CD22 MAbs—During 2005, we acquired Cellective Therapeutics, Inc., which provided us with three preclinical stage programs developing MAbs that target the B-cell antigens CD19, CD20 and CD22. These antigens are believed to play important roles in regulating the immune system. Preclinical studies indicate that antibodies targeting these antigens may block B-cell activities that are associated with many tumors and autoimmune diseases, including multiple myeloma, B-cell lymphomas, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. • Anti-chitinase MAb—During 2004, we acquired the rights from Yale University to a family of proteins known as chitinases that may be important therapeutic targets in a number of cancers, as well as inflammatory and other diseases. During 2005, we continued our preclinical development efforts evaluating the role of chitinases in respiratory diseases. Oncology • Human papillomavirus (“HPV”) vaccine—Since 1997, MedImmune and GSK have been co-developing a vaccine against HPV to prevent cervical cancer under a research collaboration. Final data from a Phase 2 clinical trial with this HPV vaccine, Cervarix, were presented by GSK in February 2004 at The International Papillomavirus Conference and were published in The Lancet in 2004. In 2005, GSK continued a global Phase 3 clinical program, involving approximately 28,000 women, designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the vaccine in preventing cervical cancer. Also in 2005, we amended our agreement with GSK, permitting Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck”), which also has an HPV vaccine, Gardasil®, in Phase 3 development, to sublicense rights to our patents. As a result, we may receive certain milestone payments and royalties on future development and sales from both vaccines as they are developed and should they be approved. Data from Merck’s Phase 3 clinical trial, which showed 100% prevention of high-grade cervical pre-cancers and non-invasive cervical cancers associated with HPV types 16 and 18, were presented in October 2005 at Infectious Diseases Society of America annual meeting. In December 2005, Merck submitted a BLA to the FDA and a Marketing Authorisation Application to the European Medicines Agency for its HPV vaccine. GSK submitted a Marketing Authorisation Application to the European Medicines Agency for Cervarix in March 2006 and is expected to file for regulatory approval in the U.S. by the end of 2006. • Ethyol—During 2005, we continued to enroll and treat patients in a Phase 2 trial evaluating Ethyol’s ability to help reduce esophagitis in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. In 2005, we discontinued a Phase 1/2 trial with Ethyol in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia after it was assessed that there was insufficient clinical effectiveness in reducing toxicities of certain increased chemotherapy regimens on these patients at acceptable dose levels. • Vitaxin MAb—Vitaxin is our development-stage MAb currently being evaluated in separate trials for advanced melanoma and prostate cancer. Vitaxin has been shown in preclinical studies to block the function of alpha-v beta-3 integrin, which is frequently found on newly-forming blood vessels and certain tumor cells (for example, melanoma, prostate cancer, and tumors with bone metastases). In May 2005, we announced the preliminary data from our Phase 2 study involving 112 patients with stage IV metastatic melanoma, showing a 12.7-month median survival for patients treated with Vitaxin alone. During 2005, we also completed enrolling patients in our Phase 2 trial for hormone refractory prostate cancer. We expect to complete the prostate study in 2006, and assess the data from both Phase 2 trials as we continue to invest in this molecule as a potential cancer therapeutic. • Siplizumab MAb—Siplizumab is a humanized MAb that targets CD2, a molecule expressed on certain white blood cells, and appears to have the effect of depleting T-cells and natural killer cells. These properties suggest that siplizumab could provide a treatment for patients with T-cell lymphoproliferative disorders. Animal studies of T-cell leukemia have indicated that siplizumab can help increase survival. In May 2005, we presented preliminary data from a Phase 1 trial run by the National Cancer Institute with siplizumab indicating the antibody was well tolerated in patients with certain T-cell lymphomas and leukemias. Partial disease remissions for some study participants were among the data presented. As a result of the initial observations from this Phase 1 trial, during 2005 we expedited enrollment of patients in an additional Phase 1/2 study using similar dose escalation criteria. • MT-103 BiTE—MT-103 is a bi-specific T-cell engager (BiTE™) molecule that binds to B-cell lymphomas expressing the CD19 surface molecule. With its second binding arm, MT-103 recruits and activates T-cells to kill the cancerous B-cells. In 2005, a Phase 1 dose-escalation trial involving continuous infusion of MT-103 in patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma was ongoing in Europe. We anticipate filing an IND for MT-103 in the U.S. in 2006. We are also evaluating the broader application of Micromet’s BiTE technology to other targets of interest, such as BiTEs against EphA2 and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). • Anti-EphA2 MAbs and vaccines—EphA2 is normally expressed at very low levels on normal epithelial cells, but many different cancers over-express EphA2, including metastatic melanoma, breast, prostate, colon, lung, ovarian and esophageal carcinomas. Further, when over-expressed, EphA2 appears to promote metastases. Based on preclinical studies to date, we believe that targeting EphA2 in animal models may selectively inhibit the growth and survival of malignant cells, without altering the function or survival of corresponding normal cells. In 2004, we licensed the worldwide rights to the Listeria vaccine technologies from Cerus Corporation to target EphA2-expressing tumors. In 2005, we continued our preclinical testing in these areas, applying monoclonal antibody and vaccine research against EphA2. A development plan to initiate clinical trials with an anti-EphA2 MAb in the U.S. is under review. • Anti-EphA4 MAb—We have identified EphA4 as a potential new target on certain cancer cells. Preclinical studies indicate that high levels of EphA4 are found on many different cancers, including breast and pancreatic carcinomas, and that targeted intervention against EphA4 may decrease the proliferation and metastatic behavior of these malignant cells. In 2005, we continued our preclinical testing of EphA4 antibodies. • Anti-EphB4 and EphrinB2 MAbs—In 2005, we entered into a collaborative agreement with VasGene Therapeutics to develop cancer-focused MAbs targeting a novel member of a subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases, EphB4, as well as its ligand, EphrinB2. EphB4 is found at high levels on tumor cells and in tumor-associated blood vessels. The binding of EphB4 to EphrinB2 has been linked with the metastatic and angiogenic potential of many cancers. As such, antibodies targeting EphB4 or EphrinB2 may selectively inhibit the growth and survival of tumor cells and tumor-associated blood vessels. • Anti-ALK MAb—In 2005, we entered into a licensing and collaboration agreement with Georgetown University for the development of MAbs targeting anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), a member of the insulin receptor family of tyrosine kinases. ALK is found at high levels in cancer cells, where it is believed to play an important role in tumor cell growth and survival. Over-expression of ALK and its ligand, pleiotrophin (PTN), has been confirmed in numerous cancer types, including prostate, breast, colon, lung , pancreatic and ovarian cancers. Further, research has shown that high levels of PTN are associated with lower survival rates, and results from in vivo studies suggest that anti-ALK antibodies may potentially reduce tumor growth and increase survival. • cMET Avimers—In 2005, we entered into a licensing and collaboration agreement with Avidia, Inc. to develop anti-cancer products targeting cMET, a receptor tyrosine kinase found in high levels in certain cancer cells. The collaboration also promotes the development of additional targets using Avidia’s Avimer technology. Avimers are small, stable proteins that can act like antibodies and bind selectively to different receptors or ligands. They may have several advantages over MAbs or small molecules as therapeutic products in terms of biological activity, tissue distribution, reduced immunogenicity, and improved manufacturing efficiencies. • Anti-Eph peptides—In 2005, we entered into a licensing agreement with the Burnham Institute for Medical Research to develop peptides targeting the EphA and EphB subfamilies of receptor tyrosine kinases. Certain Eph proteins are believed to play an important role in uncontrolled tumor growth and metastasis in many types of human cancers. Collaborations, Alliances and Investments To build, advance and promote our product portfolio, we often seek to augment our own internal programs and capabilities with collaborative projects with a number of outside partners. For our marketed products, we have established certain license agreements, co-promotion arrangements, manufacturing, supply and co-development alliances with pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies, academic institutions and government laboratories to which we currently pay royalties. For more information on these collaborations, please see Note 16, “Collaborative Arrangements” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Similarly, for product candidates now in development, we have secured licenses to certain intellectual property and entered into strategic alliances with outside parties for various aspects of research, development, manufacturing and commercialization, pursuant to which we will owe future royalties if the product candidates are licensed and commercialized. We also believe that investing in early stage biotechnology companies allows us to benefit from other innovations in the industry. Accordingly, we established MedImmune Ventures, Inc. in 2002 as a wholly owned venture capital subsidiary that makes minority interest investments in biotechnology companies we believe have promising technology. Occasionally, we will make these investments in connection with strategic alliances as we have done with Critical Therapeutics, Inc. and Micromet AG. As of February 25, 2006, MedImmune Ventures has invested approximately $95 million of the $200 million that was allocated to it by MedImmune’s Board of Directors. Sales and Marketing We have developed a sales and marketing organization that focuses on targeting healthcare providers, managed healthcare organizations, specialty distribution companies, chain pharmacies, government purchasers and payers. Approximately 65 sales and managed care representatives cover approximately 1,200 hospitals, managed care organizations, and clinics in the U.S., which specialize in pediatric/neonatal care or transplantation for the promotion of Synagis, FluMist and CytoGam. Approximately 225 sales representatives cover approximately 16,000 pediatric practices in the U.S. for the promotion and detailing of Synagis and FluMist. In addition, approximately 65 oncology/immunology specialists are devoted to the sales and marketing of Ethyol to oncologists practicing in cancer treatment centers, large hospitals and private medical practices. In total, we now employ approximately 460 sales and marketing personnel in the United States. Since 1998, we have had a co-promotion agreement with Abbott for the promotion of Synagis in the United States. Under this agreement, Abbott details Synagis to approximately 27,000 office-based pediatricians and 6,000 birth hospitals through its 500 sales representatives. In August 2005, we amended this co-promotion agreement whereby we will take full responsibility for product promotion in the U.S. starting July 1, 2006. We plan to expand the pediatric sales organization by approximately 125 professionals in advance of the 2006/2007 RSV season to replace Abbott’s co-promotion efforts. In the U.S., we also rely upon specialty distributors and wholesalers to deliver Synagis to our customers, including physicians, hospitals and pharmacies. In 2003, we launched the Synagis Distribution Network (“SDN”), which significantly reduced the number of distributors and wholesalers involved in the distribution of Synagis with the intention of providing high-quality and consistent services for patients. We reevaluate the distribution network membership every season and make changes as needed to ensure our customers and patients receive the highest levels of service and customer support. In addition to distribution services, there are a relatively small number of specialty distributors who have demonstrated expertise in providing patient support services. There can be no assurances that these distributors will adequately provide their services to either the end users or to MedImmune, nor can there be any guarantee that these service providers remain solvent. As discussed in Note 4, “Segment, Geographic and Product Information,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have four major customers who each accounted for over 12% of our total revenue during 2005. Note 4 also contains information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate. We face risks related to foreign currency exchange rates, as discussed under the caption “Risk Factors—Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in losses.” Manufacturing and Supply We operate commercial manufacturing facilities and distribution facilities in the U.S. and Europe. In addition, we have entered into manufacturing, supply and purchase agreements with other companies to provide certain portions of the production capacity for all of our marketed products and to produce clinical supplies for our development-stage products. Certain materials necessary for our commercial manufacturing of our products are proprietary products of other companies, and in some cases, these proprietary products are specifically cited in our drug application with the FDA such that they must be obtained from that specific, sole source. In addition, certain materials necessary for our commercial manufacturing of our products are only available through one approved single source supplier though the materials are available from more than one supplier. We currently attempt to manage the risk associated with such sole-sourced and single-sourced materials by active inventory management and, where feasible, alternate source development. We monitor the financial condition of our suppliers, their ability to supply our needs and the market conditions for these raw materials. Also, certain materials required in the commercial manufacturing of our products are derived from biological sources. We maintain screening procedures with respect to certain biological sources, where appropriate, and we are investigating alternatives to them. Synagis— The primary manufacturing facility for Synagis bulk drug substance is our Frederick, Maryland manufacturing center (“FMC”). The FMC is a biologics facility with cell culture production and associated downstream processing equipment for recombinant products. Filling of Synagis bulk produced at the FMC is performed by Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and packaging is performed by Cardinal Health PTS, LLC. Supplemental supply of Synagis for the U.S. market is manufactured by Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. KG (“BI”) under a manufacturing and supply agreement. BI also fills and packages Synagis produced at its German facility. As the sole supplier of Synagis for all territories outside the U.S. and supplemental supplier for the U.S. market, BI is responsible for obtaining and maintaining licensure and approval for making the product at its facility from all appropriate regulatory authorities including the FDA. We plan to continue to rely upon BI for production of additional quantities of Synagis to meet expected worldwide demand for the product. Ethyol— All bulk drug substance for Ethyol is produced by a contract manufacturer. In 2005, filling and finishing of all product was completed at our manufacturing facility in Nijmegen, the Netherlands. To backup our own filling and finishing capabilities, we have an agreement with Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc., a subsidiary of BI, to fill and finish Ethyol for sale in the United States. FluMist— FluMist is produced at several facilities either owned or leased by MedImmune. The master virus seeds are prepared at our Mountain View, California facility. In 2005, the bulk monovalents and diluent were produced at leased facilities in Speke, the United Kingdom. In December 2005, the FDA approved our recently constructed bulk manufacturing facility, which is also located in the United Kingdom. We plan to begin manufacturing FluMist at this site in 2006. Blending of FluMist into its trivalent formulation and filling of the final vaccine into the Accuspray™ applicators, the non-invasive nasal spray delivery system developed and supplied by Becton, Dickinson and Company, takes place at our Philadelphia, Pennsylvania facilities. In addition to these manufacturing facilities, we own a distribution facility in Louisville, Kentucky from which FluMist is distributed to physicians, pharmacies and government agencies. CytoGam —We are in the process of transferring CytoGam manufacturing responsibilities to a different contract manufacturer, a process which is expected to be completed during the second half of 2006. Until the transfer is complete and the new manufacturing sites are approved by the FDA, we expect supply to be limited and sales to be adversely affected. Patents, Licenses and Proprietary Rights The products and product candidates currently being developed or considered for development by MedImmune are in the area of biotechnology, an area in which there are extensive patent filings. We rely on patent protection against use of our proprietary products and technologies by competitors. The patent positions of biotechnology firms generally are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that patent applications owned or licensed by us will result in patents being issued or that, if issued, such patents will afford meaningful protection against competitors with similar technology. We currently own or in-license significant intellectual property related to our products or product candidates and own or in-license additional applications for patents currently pending. A list of the U.S. patents we own or exclusively in-license as of February 2006 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K. Government Regulation The research, development, manufacture and sale of our products are subject to numerous complex laws and statutes as well as regulations promulgated by the applicable governmental authorities, principally the FDA in the U.S. and similar authorities in other countries. While there is considerable time and expense associated with complying with these requirements, knowledge of and experience with these matters also yields benefits to MedImmune. For example, the more knowledgeable we are about these matters, the more we are able to design our research, development and manufacturing strategies in a manner that is calculated to obtain regulatory approval to market our products in the applicable countries. Moreover, the complexity of these matters can have the effect of delaying or limiting the number of competing products that can successfully be brought to market. In addition, certain regulatory approval pathways, for example, orphan drug designation in the U.S. for marketing products applicable to rare diseases or small populations, can also have the effect of limiting the number of competing products available in the market. Competition The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and intense competition. Our competitors include pharmaceutical, chemical and biotechnology companies, many of which have financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than those of MedImmune. In addition, many specialized biotechnology companies have formed collaborations with large, established companies to support research, development and commercialization of products that may be competitive with those of MedImmune. Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also conducting research activities and seeking patent protection and may commercialize products on their own or through joint venture arrangements. We expect our products to compete primarily on the basis of product efficacy, safety, patient convenience, reliability and patent position. In addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic or preventive area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. Our competitive position will also depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and other personnel, develop effective proprietary products, implement product and marketing plans, obtain patent protection and secure adequate capital resources. We believe that Synagis is the only product currently available for the prevention of RSV disease. However, we are aware of one product, ribavirin, which is indicated for the treatment of RSV disease in the United States. The existence of this product, or other products or treatments of which we are not aware, or products or treatments that may be developed in the future, may adversely affect the marketability of products developed by MedImmune. In relation to influenza vaccines, in the past, we have been aware of two main manufacturers of TIV sold in the United States. From these two manufacturers, approximately 80 million doses of these inactivated vaccines have traditionally been sold annually in the United States. In August 2005 the FDA also approved an inactivated influenza vaccine manufactured by GSK for distribution in the United States. We are also aware that Merck has licensed a live virus intranasal vaccine, currently available in Russia, and that GSK is developing an intranasal, inactivated influenza vaccine that we understand is in the early stages of clinical testing. If the FDA decides to allow additional manufacturers into the market, it will create additional competition in the influenza vaccine market. Any of the products described here, as well as other products of which we are not aware, may adversely affect the marketability of FluMist. Many companies, including well-known pharmaceutical companies, are marketing anti-cancer drugs and drugs to ameliorate or treat the side effects of cancer therapies. These companies, and many others, are seeking to develop new drugs and technologies for various cancer applications. Many of these drugs, products and technologies are, or in the future may be, competitive with our oncology products. In the U.S., we believe that Sanofi-Aventis holds the largest share of the chemotherapy market in terms of both approved products and annual sales. To our knowledge, other companies maintaining a significant active oncology marketing and sales presence include Amgen, Inc., AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals, LP, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Chiron Corporation, Eli Lilly and Company, Genentech, Inc., GSK, Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Inc., and Schering. These companies have greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than us and may be better equipped than us to develop, market and manufacture these therapies. In June 2004, we received a notification from Sun Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. that it had submitted an abbreviated new drug application to the FDA seeking approval for a generic version of Ethyol (amifostine). We evaluated all options available to us and in August, 2004, we filed a patent infringement case against Sun Pharmaceutical in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland. During 2005 there were no material developments in the proceedings between MedImmune and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited. For additional information see Note 18, “Legal Proceedings,” of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Officers and Key Employees of the Company Name Age Position Joined MedImmune Wayne T. Hockmeyer, Ph.D. 61 Chairman of the Board and Founder; President, MedImmune Ventures, Inc. 1988 David M. Mott 40 Chief Executive Officer, President and Vice Chairman of the Board 1992 James F. Young, Ph.D. 53 President, Research and Development 1989 Edward M. Connor, M.D. 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer 1994 William C. Bertrand, Jr., J.D. 41 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Corporate Compliance Officer 2001 Peter A. Kiener, D.Phil. 53 Senior Vice President, Research 2001 Pamela J. Lupien 46 Senior Vice President, Human Resources 2002 Bernardus N. Machielse, Drs. 45 Senior Vice President, Operations 1999 Edward T. Mathers 45 Senior Vice President, Corporate Development 2002 Linda J. Peters 40 Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs 2005 R. Michael Smullen 51 Senior Vice President, Sales 1994 Gail Folena-Wasserman, Ph.D. 51 Senior Vice President, Development 1991 Lota S. Zoth, C.P.A. 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 2002 Wayne T. Hockmeyer, Ph.D.— Dr. Hockmeyer founded MedImmune, Inc. in April 1988 as President and Chief Executive Officer and was elected to serve on the Board of Directors in May 1988. Dr. Hockmeyer became Chairman of the Board of Directors in May 1993. He relinquished his position as Chief Executive Officer in October 2000 and now serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors and President of MedImmune Ventures, Inc. Dr. Hockmeyer earned his bachelor’s degree from Purdue University and his Ph.D. from the University of Florida in 1972. Dr. Hockmeyer was recognized in 1998 by the University of Florida as a Distinguished Alumnus and in 2002, Dr. Hockmeyer was awarded a Doctor of Science honoris causa from Purdue University. Dr. Hockmeyer is a member of the Maryland Economic Development Commission and the Maryland Governor’s Workforce Investment Board (GWIB). He is also a member of the Maryland Governor’s Scientific Advisory Board. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the publicly traded biotechnology companies, Advancis Pharmaceutical Corp., GenVec, Inc. and Idenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and serves on the boards of several educational and philanthropic organizations. David M. Mott— Mr. Mott was appointed Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman in October 2000 and was also appointed President in February 2004. He joined MedImmune in April 1992 as Vice President with responsibility for business development, strategic planning and investor relations. In 1994, Mr. Mott assumed additional responsibility for the medical and regulatory groups, and in March 1995 was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In November 1995, Mr. Mott was appointed to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer and was elected to the Board of Directors. In October 1998, Mr. Mott was appointed Vice Chairman. Mr. Mott is a member of the board of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), and also serves on the Board of Trustees of St. James School and on the Board of Governors of Beauvoir, the National Cathedral Elementary School. He holds a bachelor of arts degree from Dartmouth College. James F. Young, Ph.D.— Dr. Young has over 20 years of experience in the fields of molecular genetics, microbiology, immunology and pharmaceutical development. In December 2000, Dr. Young was promoted to the position of President, Research and Development. He joined MedImmune in 1989 as Vice President, Research and Development. In 1995, he was promoted to Senior Vice President and in 1999 he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Research and Development. Dr. Young received his doctorate in microbiology and immunology from Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas and bachelor of science degrees in biology and general science from Villanova University in Villanova, Pennsylvania. Dr. Young is a member of the Board of Directors of Arriva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Iomai Corporation. Edward M. Connor, M.D.— Dr. Connor was promoted to executive vice president and chief medical officer in September 2004. He joined MedImmune as Director of Clinical Studies in 1994 and was promoted to Vice President, Clinical Development in 1995. In his current post, he is responsible for directing all medical activities for MedImmune, which include clinical development, medical affairs and product safety. Dr. Connor holds a bachelor’s degree in biology from Villanova University and a medical degree from University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine. He is board certified in pediatrics and is a consultant in pediatric infectious diseases. William C. Bertrand, Jr., J.D. — Mr. Bertrand was promoted to Senior Vice President in November 2005, and he serves as our General Counsel, Secretary and Corporate Compliance Officer. He was appointed our first General Counsel in September 2003. He joined MedImmune in 2001 as Vice President, Legal Affairs, and Corporate Compliance Officer. Prior to joining MedImmune, Mr. Bertrand served in various legal positions at Pharmacia Corporation from 1997-2001, including Litigation Counsel, Senior Corporate Counsel and Associate General Counsel. He had also been Associate General Counsel for a life insurance company; a partner at Dickinson, Wright, Moon, Van Dusen & Freeman of Lansing, MI; and taught courses at various institutions, including Seton Hall University School of Law. Mr. Bertrand holds a bachelor of science degree in biology from Wayne State University and a juris doctorate (cum laude) from University of Wisconsin — Madison. Peter A. Kiener, D.Phil.— Dr. Kiener was promoted to Senior Vice President, Research, in February 2005 with oversight of our global research activities. He joined MedImmune in 2001 and was named Vice President, Research, in 2003. Prior to joining MedImmune, Dr. Kiener spent 18 years with Bristol-Myers Squibb’s (“BMS”) Pharmaceutical Research Division, finally holding the position of director, immunology, inflammation, pulmonary and oncology drug discovery at the BMS facility in Princeton, New Jersey. Before his employment at BMS, Dr. Kiener previously served as assistant professor at the University of North Texas/Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine’s Department of Anatomy; as a research associate at the Department of Biochemistry, University of Massachusetts (Amherst); and, as a postdoctoral research assistant, Medical Research Council, Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford. Dr. Kiener holds a bachelor of science degree with honors in chemistry from Lancaster University, Lancaster, the United Kingdom, and a doctorate of philosophy in biochemistry from the Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, Oxford University, Oxford, the United Kingdom. Pamela J. Lupien— Ms. Lupien was promoted to Senior Vice President of Human Resources in November 2005. She joined MedImmune as Vice President of Human Resources in April 2002. Prior to joining MedImmune, Ms. Lupien was Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Orbital Sciences Corporation from 2000 until 2002. Previously she held a variety of positions of increasing responsibility at James Martin & Company, Betzdearborn, Inc., Freuhauf Trailer Corporation and IBM Corporation. Ms. Lupien has a bachelor’s degree in social sciences from the University of South Florida and a master’s degree in business administration from Jacksonville University. Bernardus N. Machielse, Drs.— Drs. Machielse was appointed Senior Vice President, Operations, in January 2005. Drs. Machielse joined MedImmune in May 1999 as Vice President, Quality and was named Senior Vice President, Quality, in September 2003. Prior to joining MedImmune, Drs. Machielse was vice president of quality control and quality assurance for Xoma Corporation of Berkeley, California. He also spent several years in various manufacturing and quality positions at Centocor BV of the Netherlands. Drs. Machielse holds a bachelor of science degree in medical biology and a master of science degree in biochemistry from the University of Utrecht, The Netherlands. Edward T. Mathers— Mr. Mathers was named Senior Vice President, Corporate Development, in February 2005. He joined MedImmune as Vice President, Corporate Development, in 2002. Prior to joining MedImmune, Mr. Mathers was Vice President of Marketing and Corporate Licensing and Acquisitions at Inhale Therapeutic Systems. Previously, he enjoyed a successful 15-year career at Glaxo Wellcome, Inc. (now GlaxoSmithKline), holding a number of positions of increasing responsibility in sales and marketing. Mr. Mathers started his career at Ortho Pharmaceuticals Corporation (a division of Johnson & Johnson) as a researcher. He holds a bachelor’s degree in chemistry from North Carolina State University. Linda J. Peters— Ms. Peters joined MedImmune as Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs, in February 2005. Prior to joining MedImmune, Ms. Peters was Vice President of Global Regulatory Affairs for Baxter Healthcare’s BioScience and Renal businesses. Before that, she served as Director of Regulatory Affairs at Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America and held positions of increasing responsibility at TAP Pharmaceuticals. Ms. Peters earned her bachelor of science and master of science degrees in animal science from Southern Illinois University, and a master of business administration degree from the J.L. Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. R. Michael Smullen — Mr. Smullen was promoted to Senior Vice President, Sales, in February 2006. He joined MedImmune in 1994 as Vice President, Sales. Prior to joining MedImmune, Mr. Smullen served as national sales director for Synergen, Inc., a biopharmaceutical company, where he was responsible for developing the strategic plan and design for Synergen’s first U.S.-based sales force. Prior to Synergen, Mr. Smullen held the position of national sales director for Fujisawa U.S.A. He was responsible for building Fujisawa’s first U.S.-based sales force, and also helped to establish its first managed care group. Mr. Smullen started his professional career in 1976 as a sales representative at Boehringer Ingelheim, and spent several years at SmithKline Beecham in sales, sales training and sales management. Mr. Smullen holds a bachelor’s degree from Norwich University. Gail Folena-Wasserman, Ph.D.— Dr. Folena-Wasserman was promoted to Senior Vice President, Development in February 2002. Dr. Folena-Wasserman joined MedImmune in 1991 as Director, Development and was promoted to Vice President, Development in October 1995. Prior to joining MedImmune, she spent nine years at SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals (now GlaxoSmithKline). Dr. Folena-Wasserman holds a bachelor’s degree in biology and chemistry from Montclair State College in New Jersey, and has a master’s degree in biochemistry and a doctorate in chemistry from the Pennsylvania State University. Lota S. Zoth, C.P.A.—Ms. Zoth was appointed MedImmune’s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in April 2004. Ms. Zoth joined MedImmune in August 2002 as Vice President and Controller. Prior to joining MedImmune, Ms. Zoth was Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller for PSINet, Inc. During her tenure at PSINet, Ms. Zoth led many of the efforts associated with compliance with the bankruptcy court and participated in the due diligence efforts as parts of the company were disposed. Between 1998 and 2000, Ms. Zoth was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Sodexho Marriott Services, Inc. Prior to Sodexho Marriott, Ms. Zoth was Vice President, Financial Analysis, for Marriott International, Inc.’s food and management services division. Ms. Zoth is a CPA, and holds a bachelor of business administration (summa cum laude) in accounting from Texas Tech University. Employees We consider relations with our employees to be good. As of December 31, 2005, we had 2,059 full-time permanent employees and 156 full-time temporary employees. Approximately 80 of our employees in the U.K. are members of a labor union, with which we renegotiated two-year employment terms in 2005. There can be no guarantee that future negotiations will lead to an outcome that is favorable to MedImmune. If negotiations were to break down between MedImmune and the union, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to manufacture an adequate supply of influenza vaccines. Investor Information MedImmune files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You can inspect, read and copy these reports, proxy statements and other information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. You can also obtain copies of these materials at prescribed rates by writing to the Public Reference Section of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the public reference facilities by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a web site (www.sec.gov) that makes available reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with it. MedImmune makes available free of charge on or through its internet website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonable practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. MedImmune’s internet address is www.medimmune.com. The information on MedImmune’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks we do not yet know of or we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should consider the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to invest in our securities. Our revenues are largely dependent on sales of Synagis. Sales of Synagis accounted for approximately 87% of our total product sales in 2005 and our revenues will continue to be largely dependent on sales of Synagis for the foreseeable future. Any perceived or actual event or series of events that have a negative effect on sales of Synagis will have a detrimental affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Events which would affect sales of Synagis include, but are not limited to, any product liability claims (whether supported or not), any manufacturing or supply delays, any sudden loss of inventory, any inability to satisfy product demand, any unsuccessful sales, marketing or distribution strategies and any changes in the authorization, policies, or reimbursement rates for Synagis by private or public insurance carriers or programs. In addition, Synagis is a biological product regulated and approved for marketing in the U.S. by the FDA and any adverse change in the marketing approval or label for Synagis required by the FDA will have a detrimental affect on our business. We have also created an exclusive network for distribution of Synagis in the U.S., which will have the effect of preventing certain entities from obtaining Synagis and may have the effect of limiting patient access to the product, changing the authorization, policies or reimbursement rates for Synagis by private or public insurance carriers or programs, any of which could result in reduced sales. Outside of the U.S., AI is responsible for the distribution and commercialization of Synagis as well as obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for commercialization. Accordingly, sales of Synagis outside of the U.S. are not within our direct control and any negative effect on AI’s sales of Synagis could affect our revenues related to those sales. In addition, actions of AI related to the regulatory approval or commercialization of Synagis outside of the U.S. could negatively affect our sales of Synagis in the United States. The seasonal nature of a significant portion of our business causes significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Sales of two of our products, Synagis and FluMist, are seasonal in nature. Synagis sales occur primarily in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year and FluMist sales occur primarily in the second half of the calendar year. This high concentration of product sales in a portion of the year causes quarter-to-quarter operating results to vary widely and would exaggerate the adverse consequences on our revenues of any manufacturing or supply delays, any sudden loss of inventory, any inability to satisfy product demand, the inability to estimate the effect of returns and rebates, or of any unsuccessful sales or marketing strategies during the applicable sales season. Furthermore, our current product base limits our ability to offset in the second and third quarters any lower-than-expected sales of Synagis during the first and fourth quarters or FluMist during the second half of the year. The approval of CAIV-T is critical to the future of our influenza vaccine business. FluMist, in its current frozen formulation, has not been commercially successful. We do not expect our influenza vaccine business to contribute meaningfully to our revenues, income or earnings until and unless we are able to obtain regulatory approval of CAIV-T, the next-generation, refrigerator-stable formulation of FluMist, with a broader approved indication. The timing and outcome of obtaining approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and other similar regulatory agencies in other parts of the world is uncertain. There can be no assurance that any such regulatory agency will approve CAIV-T without the need for additional costly and time-intensive measures; without restrictions as to its marketability; on a timely basis consistent with our expectations; or at all. Even if CAIV-T is approved, the commercial success of our influenza vaccine business is uncertain and we may not be able to recover the value of our investment. Even if CAIV-T is approved, the market for influenza vaccines is competitive and complex. The commercial success of the product will be limited if we cannot successfully manufacture, distribute and sell it in jurisdictions in which it is approved. The marketplace may view our influenza vaccines as competing against the injectable vaccine. FluMist and CAIV-T have a higher cost of manufacturing at their historic and current volumes relative to injectable vaccines. There can be no assurance that demand for our vaccines will support a volume and price that will achieve a profit in accordance with our expectations, or that our revenues for these products will exceed our cost of goods. The manufacturing process for FluMist and CAIV-T is complex and product supply will be adversely affected if we are unable to perform the annual update of the formulations for new influenza strains, if we encounter contamination or other problems or difficulties in the process, if we are unable to obtain eggs or other materials necessary for their manufacture, if the regulatory authorities do not approve the product for release, if there is a sudden loss of inventory or for other reasons. Our distribution experience relates primarily to sales to wholesalers and specialty pharmaceutical distributors. We have limited experience in distributing and selling products like influenza vaccines that are generally sold in greater volume and smaller order quantities, so there can be no assurance that our distribution and sales systems have been optimally designed to yield the greatest return. We have made significant investments in the development and commercialization of live, attenuated intranasal influenza vaccines. In addition to our internal research, development and commercialization activities, these investments also include the research and development conducted by Aviron before our acquisition of that company; the cost of our acquisition of Aviron; the cost of the activities conducted by Wyeth, our former collaboration partner for development, promotion and distribution of these vaccines; the cost of dissolving the collaboration and reacquiring Wyeth’s rights to this franchise; and losses incurred in manufacturing and selling FluMist after its launch. Our results of operations would be negatively affected by impairment charges for the write-down of manufacturing and intangible assets related to FluMist and CAIV-T. For various reasons, primarily those set forth above, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the value of our investment in the influenza vaccine business. Government involvement may limit the commercial success of our influenza vaccine business. If an influenza outbreak occurs and is classified as a pandemic or large epidemic by public health authorities, it is possible that one or more government entities may take actions that directly or indirectly have the effect of abrogating some of our rights or opportunities. We have not manufactured a pandemic vaccine to date, but even if we were to do so, the economic value of such a vaccine to the company could be limited. Our primary manufacturing facility for influenza vaccines is in the U.K. and, in an influenza pandemic, the U.K. government may limit our ability to export product outside the United Kingdom. Various government entities, including the U.S. government, are offering incentives, grants and contracts to encourage additional investment by commercial organizations into preventative and therapeutic agents against influenza, which may have the effect of increasing the number of competitors and/or providing advantages to known competitors. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully establish competitive market share for our influenza vaccines. In addition, current influenza vaccines are trivalent (contain three strains) and are derived from or analogous to two circulating influenza A viral strains and one circulating influenza B viral strain. If the World Health Organization, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or other similar agencies require or recommend changes in influenza vaccines, for example for a monovalent or quadravalent vaccine or for use of a strain that is not currently circulating in the human population, it is uncertain whether we will be able to manufacture such a product at commercially reasonable rates. We may not be able to bring our product candidates to market. Research and development activities are costly and may not be successful, and there can be no assurance that any of our product candidates, even if they are in or approved to enter Phase 3 clinical trials, will be approved for marketing by the FDA or the equivalent regulatory agency of any other country. A significant portion of our annual operating budget is spent on research, development and clinical activities. Currently, numerous products are being developed that may never reach clinical trials, achieve success in the clinic, be submitted to the appropriate regulatory authorities for approval, or be approved for marketing or manufacturing by the appropriate regulatory authorities. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to generate additional product candidates for our pipeline, either through internal research and development, or through the in-licensing or acquisition of products or technology. Even if a product candidate is approved for marketing by the applicable regulatory agency, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manufacture the product on a commercial scale or effectively commercialize the product. A significant portion of our business is dependent on third parties. We license a significant portion of the technology necessary for our business from third parties and rely on third parties for a significant portion of the clinical development, supply of components, manufacturing, distribution, and promotion of our products. The actions of these third parties are outside of our control and the failure of these third parties to act in accordance with their obligations to us would have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are legally entitled to damages for a failure of a third party to fulfill its obligations to us, there can be no assurance that such damages will adequately compensate us for indirect or consequential losses such as the damage to a product brand or our reputation. If a third party does not fulfill its obligations to us, we may have to incur substantial additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Defending product liability claims could be costly and divert focus from our business operations and product recalls may be necessary. Our products contain biologically active agents that can alter the physiology of the person using the product. Accordingly, as a developer, tester, manufacturer, marketer and seller of biological products, we may be subject to product liability claims that may be costly to defend, regardless of whether the claims have merit, and may require removal of an approved product from the market. If a claim were to be successful, there is no guarantee that the amount of the claim would not exceed the limit of our insurance coverage and available cash or cash equivalents. Further, a successful claim could reduce revenues related to the product, result in the FDA taking regulatory action (including suspension of product sales for an indefinite period) or result in significant negative publicity for us or damage to our product brand. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in a clinical trial interruption or cancellation. Additionally, product recalls may be necessary either in connection with product liability claims or for other reasons. Any such recall would adversely affect sales of that product. We may not be able to meet the market demand for our products. We generally do not have or contract for redundant supply, production, packaging or other resources to manufacture our products. As a result, we are at risk for business interruption if there is any disruption in the manufacturing chain. Difficulties or delays in our or our contractors’ manufacturing of existing or new products could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our reputation. In addition, because our various manufacturing processes and those of our contractors are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. In particular, the supply of our products is affected by several manufacturing variables, including the number of production runs, production success rate, product yield and the outcome of quality testing. If we are unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients our reputation may be negatively affected, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. We may lose product due to difficulties in the manufacturing process. Our manufacturing operations expose us to a variety of significant risks, including: product defects; contamination of product or product loss; environmental problems resulting from our production process; sudden loss of inventory and the inability to manufacture products at a cost that is competitive with third party manufacturing operations. Furthermore, we collaborate and have arrangements with other companies related to the manufacture of our products and, accordingly, certain aspects of the manufacturing process are not within our direct control. In addition, we have not produced FluMist for commercial use at higher volumes and may encounter additional unforeseeable risks as we develop additional commercial manufacturing experience with this product. Certain developments in the United Kingdom could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our products. Our operations in the U.K. expose us to additional business risks, and failure to manage those risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture influenza vaccines. In particular, in the event of a regional or global influenza pandemic, our facilities in the U.K. may be subject to government nationalization. In addition, the facilities are unionized and manufacturing may therefore be interrupted due to labor action. Contamination of our raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. As with other biotechnology companies, the manufacture of our products requires raw materials obtained from a variety of sources including but not limited to animal products or by-products. If these raw materials contain contaminants that are not removed by our approved purification processes, it could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations and might negatively affect our ability to manufacture those products for an indefinite period of time, regardless of whether such contamination has any proven effect on the safety or efficacy of the product. Reimbursement by government and third-party payers is critical for the success of our products. The cost to individual consumers for purchase of our products can be significant. Accordingly, sales of our products are dependent to a large extent on the insurance reimbursement available for our products. Actions by government and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care by limiting reimbursement, changing reimbursement calculation methodologies, increasing procedural hurdles to obtain reimbursement or by other means may have a material adverse effect on sales of our products. We fund and accrue for rebates due to government entities subject to reimbursement, primarily Medicaid payments to state governments. State governments have the ability to collect rebates for prior periods’ activity without restriction by statute and accordingly, we may be subject to future rebate claims by entities for product use in the past for which reimbursement was not sought. In addition, there have been numerous proposals in the U.S., both at the state and federal level, as well as in other countries that would, if adopted, affect the reimbursement of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, results of operations and financial condition. We rely upon a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors that could affect the ability to sell our products. We rely largely upon specialty pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers to deliver our currently marketed products to the end users, including physicians, hospitals, and pharmacies. There can be no assurance that these distributors and wholesalers will adequately fulfill the market demand for our products, nor can there be any guarantee that these service providers will remain solvent. Given the high concentration of sales to certain pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers, we could experience a significant loss if one of our top customers were to declare bankruptcy or otherwise become unable to fulfill its obligations to us. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals to develop, manufacture and market our products is costly and time consuming. The development, manufacturing and marketing of all of our products are subject to regulatory approval by the FDA in the U.S., as well as similar authorities in other countries. The approval process for each product is lengthy and potentially subject to numerous delays, which generally would not be in our control. There can be no assurance that any product candidate will be approved for marketing and, if approved, such approval may be limited in scope in such a manner that would harm the product’s potential for market success. Even after a product is approved for marketing, it is still subject to continuing regulation. For example, if new adverse event information about a product becomes available from broader use in the market or from additional testing, we may be required by applicable authorities to recall the product or notify health care providers of additional risks associated with use of the product. In addition, our product labeling and marketing activities may be found to be inconsistent with applicable laws and regulations. Even if we have substantially complied with all applicable laws and regulations, the applicable regulatory authorities have the authority to and may revoke or limit approvals or licenses without consulting or obtaining our consent. If we fail to comply with applicable requirements, we may be subject to: fines; seizure of products; total or partial suspension of production; refusal by the applicable authority to approve product license applications; restrictions on our ability to enter into supply contracts; and criminal prosecution. If we are unable to obtain approvals on a timely basis or at all, if the scope of approval is more limited than expected by us or if we are unable to maintain approvals, our ability to successfully market products and to generate revenues will be impaired. Patent protection for our products may be inadequate or costly to enforce. We may not be able to obtain effective patent protection for our products in development. There are extensive patent filings in the biotechnology industry and the patent position of biotechnology companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in patents being issued or that, if issued, such patents will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation will involve substantial cost and significant diversion of our attention and resources and there can be no assurance that any of our litigation matters will result in an outcome that is beneficial to us. We are also aware that regulatory authorities, including the FDA, are considering whether an abbreviated approval process for so-called “generic” or “follow-on” biological products is appropriate. We are uncertain as to when, or if, any such process may be adopted or how such a process would relate to our intellectual property rights, but any such process could have a material effect on the prospects of our products. If we fail to obtain and maintain any required intellectual property licenses from third parties, our product development and marketing efforts will be limited. Patents have been and will be issued to third parties, and patent applications have been filed by third parties, that claim one or more inventions used in the development, manufacture or use of our products or product candidates. These patents (including any patents issuing from pending patent applications), if valid and enforceable, would preclude our ability to manufacture, use or sell these products unless we obtain a license from the applicable third party. These third parties are not generally required to provide us with a license and, as such, obtaining any such licenses may not be possible or could be costly and impose significant ongoing financial burdens on us. There can be no assurance that a license will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain an exclusive license to any such patent, and as a result, the third parties or their sublicencees may be able to produce products that compete with ours. Litigation may be necessary to challenge the intellectual property rights of third parties and would involve significant cost and significant diversion of management’s time and resources. There can be no assurance that any such litigation will result in an outcome that is beneficial to us. Technological developments by competitors may render our products obsolete. If competitors were to develop superior products or technologies, our products or technologies could be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. Developments in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Success depends upon achieving and maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies. Competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be intense. Many competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial and managerial resources and experience in the industry. If a competitor develops a better product or technology, our products or technologies could be rendered obsolete, resulting in decreased product sales and a material adverse effect to our business. Even if a competitor creates a product that is not technologically superior, our products may not be able to compete with such products, decreasing our sales. We are subject to numerous complex laws and regulations and compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and time consuming. U.S. federal government entities, most significantly the FDA, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the U.S. Department of Veteran’s Affairs, as well as regulatory authorities in each state and other countries, have each been empowered to administer certain laws and regulations applicable to us. Many of the laws and regulations administered by these agencies are complex and compliance requires substantial time, effort and consultation with our outside advisors. Because of this complexity, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be sufficient to ensure compliance or to ensure that we are in technical compliance with all such laws and regulations at any given time. In addition, we are subject to audit, investigation and litigation by each of these entities to ensure compliance, each of which can also be time consuming, costly, divert the attention of senior management and have a significant effect on our business, even if we are found to have been in compliance or the extent of our non-compliance is deemed immaterial. If we are found to not be in compliance with any of these laws and regulations, we and, in some cases, our officers may be subject to fines, penalties, criminal sanctions and other liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot control the use of our products. The product labeling for each of our products is approved by the FDA and other similar regulatory authorities in other countries and marketed only for certain medical indications, but treating health care practitioners, particularly in the oncology field, are not generally required to restrict prescriptions to the approved label. These practices make it likely that our products are being used for unapproved uses and may subject us to regulatory scrutiny, sanctions or product liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to hire or retain highly qualified personnel or maintain key relationships. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, as well as senior management such as Mr. David M. Mott, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Vice Chairman, and Dr. James F. Young, our President, Research and Development. In addition, we rely on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading research institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense among pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and any obstacles hindering our ability to attract or retain such employees and relationships could have a material effect on our business. We do not maintain or intend to purchase “key man” life insurance on any of our personnel and, accordingly, our business may be subject to disruption upon the sudden or unexpected loss of a key employee. If we fail to manage our growth properly, the business will suffer. We have expanded significantly in recent years due to both acquisition and internal growth. To accommodate our rapid growth and compete effectively, we will need to continue to improve our management, operational and financial information systems and controls, generate more revenue to cover a higher level of operating expenses, continue to attract and retain new employees, accurately anticipate demand for products manufactured and expand our manufacturing capacity. This rapid growth and increased scope of operations present risks not previously encountered and could result in substantial unanticipated costs and time delays in product manufacture and development, which could materially and adversely affect the business. Fluctuations in our common stock price over time could cause stockholders to lose investment value. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly over time, and it is likely that the price will fluctuate in the future. During 2005, the daily closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ National Market ranged from a high of $37.06 to a low of $23.32. Investors and analysts have been, and will continue to be, interested in our reported earnings, as well as how we perform compared to our expectations. Announcements by us or others regarding operating results, existing and future collaborations, results of clinical trials, scientific discoveries, commercial products, patents or proprietary rights or regulatory actions may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many biotechnology companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in losses. We have entered into a supplemental manufacturing contract denominated in Euros. Fluctuations in the Euro-U.S. Dollar exchange rate would lead to changes in the U.S. Dollar cost of manufacturing. To reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs, we may, from time to time, enter into forward foreign exchange contracts. However, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under this contract, the forward foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, expenditures relating to our manufacturing operations in the U.K. and the Netherlands are paid in local currency. We have not hedged our expenditures relating to these manufacturing operations, and therefore foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may result in increases or decreases in the amount of expenditures recorded. Additionally, certain of our distribution agreements outside the U.S. provide for us to be paid based upon sales in local currency. As a result, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the amount we expect to collect under these agreements. A substantial portion of our current assets is invested in marketable securities, particularly bonds and other fixed income securities, which are subject to fluctuations in value based on interest rates and other factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2005, there are no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 