ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks we do not yet know of or we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should consider the following risks, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. 18 Our revenues are largely dependent on sales of Synagis. Sales of Synagis accounted for approximately 87% of our total product sales in 2006 and our revenues will continue to be largely dependent on sales of Synagis for the foreseeable future. Any perceived or actual event or series of events that have a negative effect on sales of Synagis will have a detrimental effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Events which would affect sales of Synagis include, but are not limited to, any product liability claims (whether supported or not), any manufacturing or supply delays, any sudden loss of inventory, any inability to satisfy product demand, any unsuccessful sales, marketing or distribution strategies, any changes in the authorization, policies, or reimbursement rates for Synagis by private or public insurance carriers or programs, or any change in the recommendations or guidelines regarding the usage, dosage or administration of Synagis issued to the health care and patient communities by certain organizations, such as the American Academy of Pediatrics. In addition, Synagis is a biological product regulated and approved for marketing in the U.S. by the FDA and any adverse change in the marketing approval or label for Synagis required by the FDA will have a detrimental affect on our business. Outside of the U.S., Abbott International, or AI, is responsible for the distribution and commercialization of Synagis as well as obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for commercialization. Accordingly, sales of Synagis outside of the U.S. are not within our direct control and any negative effect on AI’s sales of Synagis could affect our revenues related to those sales. In addition, actions of AI related to the regulatory approval or commercialization of Synagis outside of the U.S. could negatively affect our sales of Synagis in the U.S. The seasonal nature of a significant portion of our business causes significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Sales of two of our products, Synagis and FluMist, are seasonal in nature. Synagis sales occur primarily in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year and FluMist sales occur primarily in the second half of the calendar year. This high concentration of product sales in a portion of the year causes quarter-to-quarter operating results to vary widely and can exaggerate the consequences to our revenues of any manufacturing or supply delays, any sudden loss of inventory, any inability to satisfy product demand, the inability to estimate the effect of returns and rebates, normal or unusual fluctuations in customer buying patterns, or of any unsuccessful sales or marketing strategies during the applicable sales season. Furthermore, our current product base limits our ability to offset in the second and third quarters any lower-than-expected sales of Synagis during the first and fourth quarters or FluMist during the second half of the year. The successful commercialization of the refrigerated formulation of FluMist is critical to the future of our influenza vaccine business. FluMist, in its frozen formulation, was not commercially successful. We do not expect our influenza vaccine business to contribute meaningfully to our revenues, income or earnings until our refrigerated formulation of FluMist, that was recently approved in the U.S., is successfully commercialized. We are also seeking approval from the FDA to use the refrigerated formulation of FluMist for broader age groups and indications. The timing and outcome of obtaining such approval is uncertain and there can be no assurance that the FDA will grant such approval without the need for additional costly and time-intensive measures; without restrictions as to its marketability; on a timely basis consistent with our expectations; or at all. 19 The commercial success of our influenza vaccine business is uncertain and we may not be able to recover the value of our investment. The market for influenza vaccines is competitive and complex. The commercial success of our products will be limited if we cannot successfully manufacture, distribute and sell these products in jurisdictions in which the products are approved. The marketplace may view our influenza vaccines as competing against the injectable vaccine. FluMist likely has a higher cost of manufacturing at its historic and current volumes relative to the higher volumes of injectable vaccines. There can be no assurance that demand for our vaccines will support a volume and price that will achieve a profit in accordance with our expectations, or that our revenues for these products will exceed our cost of goods. The manufacturing process for FluMist is complex and product supply will be adversely affected if we are unable to perform the annual update of the formulations for new influenza strains, if we encounter contamination or other problems or difficulties in the process, if we are unable to obtain eggs or other materials necessary for their manufacture, if the regulatory authorities do not approve the products for release, if there is a sudden loss of inventory or for other reasons. Our distribution experience relates primarily to sales to wholesalers and specialty pharmaceutical distributors. We have limited experience in distributing and selling products like influenza vaccines that are generally sold in greater volume and smaller order quantities, so there can be no assurance that our distribution and sales systems have been optimally designed to yield the greatest return. We have made significant investments in the development and commercialization of live, attenuated intranasal influenza vaccines. In addition to our internal research, development and commercialization activities, these investments also include the research and development conducted by Aviron before our acquisition of that company; the cost of our acquisition of Aviron; the cost of the activities conducted by Wyeth, our former collaboration partner for development, promotion and distribution of these vaccines; the cost of dissolving the collaboration and reacquiring Wyeth’s rights to this franchise; and losses incurred in manufacturing and selling FluMist after the launch of the frozen formulation of the product. Our results of operations would be negatively affected by impairment charges for the write-down of manufacturing and intangible assets related to FluMist. For various reasons, primarily those set forth above, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover the value of our investment in the influenza vaccine business. Loss of our litigation against Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited would be detrimental to our Ethyol sales. Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited has submitted an abbreviated new drug application to the FDA for a generic version of Ethyol (amifostine). We have sued Sun for patent infringement and are defending our patents vigorously, but if we lose this litigation, it is probable that Sun will be able to secure approval for a generic version of Ethyol. If a generic version of Ethyol is approved, it is probable that its manufacturer will set a price for that product significantly lower than the current price of Ethyol and, as a result, our market share and sales of Ethyol would decline significantly. There can be no assurance that any actions we might take to mitigate the impact of the introduction of such a generic product would be successful. Likewise, there can be no assurance that the introduction of such a generic product would not adversely affect our manufacturing and/or commercial operations. Government involvement may limit the commercial success of our influenza vaccine business. If an influenza outbreak occurs and is classified as a pandemic or large epidemic by public health authorities, it is possible that one or more government entities may take actions that directly or indirectly have the effect of abrogating some of our rights or opportunities. We have not manufactured a pandemic vaccine to date, but even if we were to do so, the economic value of such a vaccine to us could be limited. 20 Our primary manufacturing facility for influenza vaccines is in the U.K. and, in an influenza pandemic, the U.K. government may limit our ability to export product outside the United Kingdom. Various government entities, including the U.S. government, are offering incentives, grants and contracts to encourage additional investment by commercial organizations into preventative and therapeutic agents against influenza, which may have the effect of increasing the number of competitors and/or providing advantages to known competitors. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully establish competitive market share for our influenza vaccines. In addition, current influenza vaccines are trivalent (contain three strains) and are derived from or analogous to two circulating influenza A viral strains and one circulating influenza B viral strain. If the World Health Organization, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention or other similar agencies require or recommend changes in influenza vaccines, for example for a monovalent or quadravalent vaccine or for use of a strain that is not currently circulating in the human population, it is uncertain whether we will be able to manufacture such a product at commercially reasonable rates. We may not be able to bring our product candidates to market. Research and development activities are costly and may not be successful, and there can be no assurance that any of our product candidates, even if they are in or approved to enter Phase 3 or other large clinical trials, will be approved for marketing by the FDA or the equivalent regulatory agency of any other country. A significant portion of our annual operating budget is spent on research, development and clinical activities. Currently, numerous products are being developed that may never reach clinical trials, achieve success in the clinic, be submitted to the appropriate regulatory authorities for approval, or be approved for marketing or manufacturing by the appropriate regulatory authorities. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to generate additional product candidates for our pipeline, either through internal research and development, or through the in-licensing or acquisition of products or technology. Even if a product candidate is approved for marketing by the applicable regulatory agency, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manufacture the product on a commercial scale or effectively commercialize the product. A significant portion of our business is dependent on third parties. We license a significant portion of the technology necessary for our business from third parties and rely on third parties for a significant portion of the clinical development, supply of components, manufacturing, distribution, and promotion of our products. The actions of these third parties are outside of our control and the failure of these third parties to act in accordance with their obligations to us would have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if we are legally entitled to damages for a failure of a third party to fulfill its obligations to us, there can be no assurance that such damages will adequately compensate us for indirect or consequential losses such as the damage to a product brand or our reputation. If a third party does not fulfill its obligations to us, we may have to incur substantial additional costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we derived revenue in 2006 from royalties and milestone payments from licensing arrangements for intellectual property relating to vaccines against the human papillomavirus (HPV) to prevent cervical cancer under development or marketed by GSK and Merck. The inability or failure of either GSK or Merck to develop and sell the products subject to our licenses due to competition, manufacturing difficulties or other factors that are outside our control could decrease their sales of the HPV vaccine and would in turn have an adverse effect on our revenue and financial condition. 21 As a U.S. government contractor, we are required to comply with a number of rules and regulations and may be exposed to unique risks. In 2006, we were awarded a contract from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop cell-based seasonal and pandemic vaccines. We have not been a government contractor in the past and compliance with necessary requirements is complex. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with all requirements and failure to comply could result in penalties imposed on us, including but not limited to termination of the contract. As a government contractor, we have become subject to a number of requirements that generally do not apply to agreements between private parties. These requirements include adherence to the provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations that regulate the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. Government contracts contain provisions permitting modification, curtailment, or termination, in whole or in part, without prior notice at the government’s convenience upon the payment of compensation only for work already done. Government contracts are also subject to oversight audits by government representatives. If any audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. As a government contractor, we may also be subject to investigations and inquiries into our business practices that would not be applicable between private commercial parties. We can provide no assurance that any such investigation or inquiry would not result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Defending product liability claims could be costly and divert focus from our business operations and product recalls may be necessary. Our products contain biologically active agents that can alter the physiology of the person using the product. Accordingly, as a developer, tester, manufacturer, marketer and seller of biological products, we may be subject to product liability claims that may be costly to defend, regardless of whether the claims have merit, and may require removal of an approved product from the market. If a claim were to be successful, there is no guarantee that the amount of the claim would not exceed the limit of our insurance coverage and available cash or cash equivalents. Further, a successful claim could reduce revenues related to the product, result in the FDA taking regulatory action (including suspension of product sales for an indefinite period) or result in significant negative publicity for us or damage to our product brand. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in a clinical trial interruption or cancellation. Additionally, product recalls may be necessary either in connection with product liability claims or for other reasons. Any such recall would adversely affect sales of that product and could affect our reputation. We may not be able to meet the market demand for our products. We generally do not have or contract for redundant supply, production, packaging or other resources to manufacture our products. As a result, we are at risk for business interruption if there is any disruption in the manufacturing chain. Difficulties or delays in our or our contractors’ manufacturing of existing or new products could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share and damage our reputation. In addition, because our various manufacturing processes and those of our contractors are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. In particular, the supply of our products is affected by several manufacturing variables, including the number of production runs, production success rate, product yield and the outcome of quality testing. If we are unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients our reputation may be negatively affected, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. 22 We may lose product due to contamination of our raw materials and other difficulties in the manufacturing process. The manufacture of our products requires raw materials obtained from a variety of sources including but not limited to animal products or by-products. If these raw materials contain contaminants that are not removed by our approved purification processes, the manufacture of our products will be negatively affected for an indefinite period of time, that could result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our manufacturing operations expose us to a variety of significant risks, including: product defects; product loss; environmental problems resulting from our production process; sudden loss of inventory and the inability to manufacture products at a cost that is competitive with third party manufacturing operations. Furthermore, we collaborate and have arrangements with other companies related to the manufacture of our products and, accordingly, certain aspects of the manufacturing process are not within our direct control. We have not produced FluMist for commercial use at higher volumes and may encounter additional unforeseeable risks as we develop additional commercial manufacturing experience with this product. Certain developments in the United Kingdom could have an adverse effect on our ability to manufacture our products. Our operations in the U.K. expose us to additional business risks, and failure to manage those risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manufacture influenza vaccines. In particular, in the event of a regional or global influenza pandemic, our facilities in the U.K. may be subject to government nationalization. In addition, the facilities are unionized and manufacturing may therefore be interrupted due to labor action. Reimbursement by government and third-party payors is critical for the success of our products. The cost to individual consumers for purchase of our products, particularly Synagis and Ethyol, can be significant. Accordingly, sales of these products are dependent to a large extent on the insurance reimbursement available for them. Actions by government and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care by limiting reimbursement, changing reimbursement calculation methodologies, increasing procedural hurdles to obtain reimbursement or by other means may have a material adverse effect on sales of these products. For example, there have been numerous cost containment initiatives in the U.S., both at the state and federal level, as well as in other countries, aimed at reducing health care expenditures that would affect the reimbursement of pharmaceutical products like ours and could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, results of operations and financial condition. We accrue for and fund rebates due to government entities subject to reimbursement, primarily Medicaid payments to state governments. State governments have the ability to collect rebates for prior periods’ activity without restriction by statute and, accordingly, we may be subject to future rebate claims by such entities for product use in the past for which reimbursement was not sought. For example, a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including us, are currently in the process of determining our exposure and liabilities to various states who may make claims under Medicaid for payments arising from the sales of products that were not properly reported and billed by the states in the past. Our estimate of our exposure to such claims and any reserves we may post for such may not be sufficient to cover our liabilities to the states and the enforcement of such claims beyond our reserves could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 23 Our reliance upon a limited number of pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors could affect the ability to sell our products. We rely largely upon pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers to deliver our currently marketed products to the end users, including physicians, hospitals, and pharmacies. There can be no assurance that these distributors and wholesalers will adequately fulfill the market demand for our products, nor can there be any guarantee that these service providers will remain solvent. Given the high concentration of sales to certain pharmaceutical distributors and wholesalers, we could experience a significant loss if one or more of our larger customers were to declare bankruptcy or otherwise become unable to fulfill its obligations to us. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals to develop, manufacture and market our products is costly and time consuming. The development, manufacturing and marketing of all of our products are subject to regulatory approval by the FDA in the U.S., as well as similar authorities in other countries. The approval process for each product is lengthy and potentially subject to numerous delays, which generally would not be in our control. There can be no assurance that any product candidate will be approved for marketing and, even if approved, such approval may be limited in scope in such a manner that would harm the product’s potential for market success. Even after a product is approved for marketing, it is still subject to continuing regulation and our failure to comply with our post-marketing commitments could expose us to risks of forfeiture of our license to market a product. Furthermore, if new adverse event information about a product becomes available from broader use in the market or from additional testing, we may be required by applicable authorities to recall the product or notify health care providers of additional risks associated with use of the product. In addition, our product labeling and marketing activities may be found to be inconsistent with applicable laws and regulations. Even if we have substantially complied with all applicable laws and regulations, the applicable regulatory authorities have the authority to and may revoke or limit approvals or licenses without consulting or obtaining our consent. If we fail to comply with applicable requirements, we may be subject to: fines; seizure or removal of products from the market; total or partial suspension of production; refusal by the applicable authority to approve product license applications; restrictions on our ability to enter into supply contracts; and criminal prosecution. If we are unable to obtain approvals on a timely basis or at all, if the scope of approval is more limited than expected by us or if we are unable to maintain approvals, our ability to successfully market products and to generate revenues will be impaired and such could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Patent protection for our products may be inadequate or costly to enforce. We may not be able to obtain effective patent protection for our products in development. There are extensive patent filings in the biotechnology industry and the patent position of biotechnology companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in patents being issued or that, if issued, such patents will afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any such litigation will involve substantial cost and significant diversion of our attention and resources and there can be no assurance that any of our litigation matters will result in an outcome that is beneficial to us. We are also aware that regulatory authorities, including the FDA, are considering whether an abbreviated approval process for so-called “generic” or “follow-on” biological products is appropriate. We are uncertain as to when, or if, any such process may be adopted or how such a process would relate to our intellectual property rights, but any such process could have a material effect on the prospects of our products. 24 If we fail to obtain and maintain any required intellectual property licenses from third parties, our product development and marketing efforts will be limited. Patents have been and will be issued to third parties, and patent applications have been filed by third parties, that claim one or more inventions used in the development, manufacture or use of our products or product candidates. These patents (including any patents issuing from pending patent applications), if valid and enforceable, would preclude our ability to manufacture, use or sell these products unless we obtain a license from the applicable third party. These third parties are not generally required to provide us with a license and, as such, obtaining any such licenses may not be possible or could be costly and impose significant ongoing financial burdens on us. There can be no assurance that a license will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain an exclusive license to any such patent, and as a result, the third parties or their sublicencees may be able to produce products that compete with ours. Litigation may be necessary to challenge the intellectual property rights of third parties and would involve significant cost and significant diversion of management’s time and resources. There can be no assurance that any such litigation will result in an outcome that is beneficial to us. Technological developments by competitors may render our products obsolete. If competitors were to develop superior or competitive products or technologies, our products or technologies could be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. Developments in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are expected to continue at a rapid pace. Success depends upon achieving and maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies. Competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be intense. Many competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities, marketing, financial and managerial resources and experience in the industry. If a competitor develops a better product or technology, our products or technologies, even if protected by patents, could be rendered obsolete, resulting in decreased product sales and a material adverse effect to our business. Even if a competitor creates a product that is not technologically superior, our products may not be able to compete with such products, decreasing our sales. We are subject to numerous complex laws and regulations and compliance with these laws and regulations is costly and time consuming. U.S. federal government entities, most significantly the FDA, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Internal Revenue Service, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the U.S. Department of Veteran’s Affairs, as well as regulatory authorities in other states and countries, have each been empowered to administer certain laws and regulations applicable to us. Many of the laws and regulations administered by these agencies are complex and compliance requires substantial time and effort by our officers and employees and extensive consultations with our outside advisors. Because of this complexity, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be sufficient to ensure compliance or to ensure that we are in technical compliance with all such laws and regulations at any given time. In addition, we are subject to audit, investigation and litigation by each of these entities to ensure compliance, each of which can also be time consuming, costly, divert the attention of senior management and have a significant effect on our business, even if we are found to have been in compliance or the extent of our non-compliance is deemed immaterial. If we are found to not be in compliance with any of these laws and regulations, we and, in some cases, our officers may be subject to fines, penalties, criminal sanctions and other liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 25 We cannot control the use of our products. The product labeling for each of our products is approved by the FDA and other similar regulatory authorities in other countries and marketed only for certain medical indications, but treating health care practitioners, particularly in the oncology field, are not generally required to restrict prescriptions to the approved label. These practices make it likely that our products are being used for unapproved uses and may subject us to regulatory scrutiny, sanctions or product liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to hire or retain highly qualified personnel or maintain key relationships. The success of our business depends, in large part, on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, as well as senior management such as Mr. David M. Mott, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Vice Chairman, and Dr. James F. Young, our President, Research and Development. In addition, we rely on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading research institutions and key distributors. Competition for these types of personnel and relationships is intense among pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and any obstacles hindering our ability to attract or retain such employees and relationships could have a material effect on our business. We do not maintain or intend to purchase “key man” life insurance on any of our personnel and, accordingly, our business may be subject to disruption upon the sudden or unexpected loss of a key employee. If we fail to manage our growth properly, the business will suffer. We have expanded significantly in recent years due to both acquisition and internal growth. To accommodate our rapid growth and compete effectively, we will need to continue to improve our management, operational and financial information systems and controls, generate more revenue to cover a higher level of operating expenses, continue to attract and retain new employees, accurately anticipate demand for products manufactured and expand our manufacturing capacity. This rapid growth and increased scope of operations present risks not previously encountered and could result in substantial unanticipated costs and time delays in product manufacture and development, which could materially and adversely affect the business. Fluctuations in our common stock price over time could cause stockholders to lose investment value. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly over time, and it is likely that the price will fluctuate in the future. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, the daily closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ National Market ranged from a high of $37.38 to a low of $25.28. Investors and analysts have been, and will continue to be, interested in our reported earnings, as well as how we perform compared to our expectations. Announcements by us or others regarding operating results, existing and future collaborations, results of clinical trials, scientific discoveries, commercial products, patents or proprietary rights or regulatory actions may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price for many biotechnology companies and that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates could result in losses. We have entered into a supplemental manufacturing contract denominated in Euros. Fluctuations in the Euro-U.S. Dollar exchange rate would lead to changes in the U.S. Dollar cost of manufacturing. To reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs, we may, from time to time, enter into forward 26 foreign exchange contracts. However, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under this contract, the forward foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, expenditures relating to our manufacturing operations in the U.K. and the Netherlands are paid in local currency. We have not hedged our expenditures relating to these manufacturing operations, and therefore foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may result in increases or decreases in the amount of expenditures recorded. Additionally, certain of our distribution agreements outside the U.S. provide for us to be paid based upon sales in local currency. As a result, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the amount we expect to collect under these agreements. A substantial portion of our current assets is invested in marketable securities, particularly bonds and other fixed income securities, which are subject to fluctuations in value based on interest rates and other factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2006, there are no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 