ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks presented below may not be all of the risks the Company may face. These are the factors that the Company believes could cause actual results to be different from expected and historical results. Other sections of this report include additional factors that could have an effect on the Company's business and financial performance. The industry that the Company competes in is very competitive and changes rapidly. Sometimes new risks emerge and management may not be able to predict all of them, or be able to predict how they may cause actual results to be different from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as a prediction of future results. Uncertain Market Acceptance. The Company's overall marketing objective is to strengthen its presence in existing markets, and establish its market presence in other industrial markets. With any technology, there is the substantial risk that the market may not appreciate the benefits or recognize the potential applications of the technology. Market acceptance of the Company's products will depend, in large part, upon the ability of the Company to demonstrate the potential advantages of its products over products manufactured by other companies. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve all or any of its marketing objectives, or that the Company's products will be accepted in their intended marketplaces on any significant basis. Intense Competition. The photonics industry, particularly for laser and electro-optical component products, generally is subject to intense competition. The Company's current and proposed products compete with existing and proposed products marketed by other manufacturers. Some of the Company's competitors are substantially larger in size and have substantially greater financial, managerial, technical and other resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully differentiate its current and proposed products from the products of its competitors or that the marketplace will consider the Company's products to be superior to competing products. Technological Obsolescence. The laser and electro-optical component industry is characterized by extensive research and rapid technological change. The development by others of new or improved products, processes or technologies may make the Company's current or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. Compliance with Government Regulations. The Company currently is subject to the laser radiation safety regulations of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act administered by the National Center for Devices and Radiological Health of the FDA. The National Center for Devices and Radiological Health is empowered to seek fines and other remedies for violations of these regulatory requirements. Patent Protection. The Company's ability to effectively compete may depend upon the proprietary nature of its technologies. The Company owns several patents and has other applications pending. The Company expects to file additional patent applications in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that other companies are not investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to the Company's technologies, or that any additional patents will be issued to the Company or that such patents will afford the Company sufficiently broad patent coverage to provide any significant deterrent to competitive products. Even if a competitor's products were to infringe products owned by the Company, it could be very costly for the Company to enforce its rights in an infringement action. The validity and enforceability of such patents may be significant to the Company and may be important to the success of the Company. The Company, however, believes that the best protection of proprietary technology in the laser industry comes from market position, technical innovation and product performance. There can be no assurance that any of these will be realized or maintained by the Company. The Company has obtained licenses under certain patents covering lasers and related technology incorporated into the Company's products. However, there may be other patents covering the Company's current or proposed products. If valid patents are infringed, the patent owner will be able to prevent the future use, sale and manufacture of the subject products by the Company and also will be entitled to damages for past infringement. Alternatively, the Company may be required to pay damages for past infringement and license fees or royalties on future sales of the infringing components of its systems. Infringement of any patents also may render the Company liable to purchasers and end-users of the infringing products. If a patent infringement claim is asserted against the Company, the defense of such claim may be very costly (whether or not the Company is successful in defending such claim). While the Company is unable to predict what such costs, if any, will be incurred if the Company is obligated to devote substantial financial or management resources to patent litigation, its ability to fund its operations and to pursue its business goals may be substantially impaired. Dependence on Suppliers. The Company relies on outside suppliers for most of its manufacturing supplies, parts and components. Most parts and components used by the Company currently are available from multiple sources. There can be no assurance that, in the future, its current or alternative sources will be able to meet all of the Company's demands on a timely basis. Unavailability of necessary parts or components could require the Company to re-engineer its products to accommodate available substitutions which would increase costs to the Company and/or have a material adverse effect on manufacturing schedules, product performance and market acceptance. Dependence on Resellers, Distributors and OEMs. The Company sells some of its products through resellers, distributors and OEMs. Reliance upon third party distribution sources subjects the Company to risks of business failure by these individual resellers, distributors and OEMs, and potential credit, inventory and business concentration risks. Dependence on Foreign Sales. A significant amount of the Company's product sales are made to customers outside the United States. These sales are subject to the normal risks of foreign operations, such as: Currency fluctuations Protective tariffs Trade barriers and export/import controls Transportation delays and interruptions Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries The impact of recessionary foreign economies Longer receivable collection periods The Company cannot predict whether the United States or any other country will impose new quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers upon the importation of the Company's products or supplies, or gauge the effect that new barriers would have on its financial position or results of operations. Manufacturing. The Company assembles its products at its various facilities in the United States and Germany. If use of any of the Company's manufacturing facilities were interrupted by natural disaster or otherwise, the Company's operations could be negatively affected until the Company could establish alternative production and service operations. In addition, the Company may experience production difficulties and product delivery delays in the future as a result of: Changing process technologies Ramping production Installing new equipment at its manufacturing facilities Shortage of key components Financial Performance. The Company's operating results may vary in the future as a result of a number of factors, including: Changes in technology New competition Economic conditions Customer demand A shift in the mix of the Company's products A shift in sales channels The market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of the Company's products The timing of introduction of other products and technologies Any cancellation or postponement of orders Any charges to earnings associated with the foregoing Research and Development. The Company is active in research and development of new products and technologies. The Company's research and development efforts may not lead to the successful introduction of new or improved products. The Company may encounter delays or problems in connection with its research and development efforts. New products often take longer to develop, have fewer features than originally considered desirable and cost more to develop than initially estimated. There may be delays in starting volume production of new products and new products may not be commercially successful. Products under development are often announced before introduction and these announcements may cause customers to delay purchases of existing products until the new or improved versions of those products are available. Delays or deficiencies in development, manufacturing, delivery of, or demand for, new products or higher development cost, could have a negative affect on the Company's business, operating results or financial condition. Acquisitions. The Company has in the past and may in the future acquire businesses or product lines as a way of expanding its product offerings and acquiring new technology. If the Company does not identify future acquisition opportunities and/or integrate businesses that it may acquire effectively, the Company's growth may be negatively affected. Product Liability Claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of laser products subjects the Company to the risk of liability claims or product recalls. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance in the countries in which it conducts business, the Company cannot assure that such coverage is adequate or will continue to be available at affordable rates. Product liability insurance is expensive and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. A product recall or successful product liability claim could inhibit or prevent commercialization of the Company's products, impose a significant financial burden on the Company, or both, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 