ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves significant risks that are inherent to our business. We describe below the principal risks and uncertainties that management believes affect or could affect us. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. You should carefully read and consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report before you decide to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could significantly decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Continued economic slowdown and/or continued deterioration of the housing market could increase delinquencies, defaults, foreclosures and advances. An increase in delinquencies and foreclosure rates could increase both interest expense on advances and operating expenses and could cause a reduction in income from, and the value of, our servicing portfolio as well as loans. 17 During any period in which a borrower is not making payments, we are required under most of our servicing agreements to advance our own funds to meet contractual principal and interest remittance requirements for investors, pay property taxes and insurance premiums and process foreclosures. We also advance funds to maintain, repair and market real estate properties on behalf of investors. Most of our advances have the highest standing and are “top of the waterfall” so that we are entitled to repayment from respective loan or REO liquidations proceeds before most other claims on these proceeds, and in the majority of cases, advances in excess of respective loan or REO liquidation proceeds may be recovered from pool level proceeds. • Revenue. An increase in delinquencies may delay the timing of revenue recognition because we recognize servicing fees as earned which is generally upon collection of payments from borrowers or proceeds from REO liquidations. An increase in delinquencies also leads to lower float balances and float earnings. Additionally, an increase in delinquencies in our GSE servicing portfolio acquired from Homeward will result in lower revenue because we collect servicing fees from GSEs only on performing loans. • Expenses. Higher delinquencies increase our cost to service loans, as loans in default require more intensive effort to bring them current or manage the foreclosure process. An increase in advances outstanding relative to the change in the size of the servicing portfolio can result in substantial strain on our financial resources. This occurs because excess growth of advances increases financing costs with no offsetting increase in revenue, thus reducing profitability. If we are unable to fund additional advances, we could breach the requirements of our servicing contracts. Such developments could result in our losing our servicing rights, which would have a substantial negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations and could trigger cross-defaults under our various credit agreements. •Valuation of MSRs. Apart from the risk of losing our servicing rights, defaults are involuntary prepayments resulting in a reduction in UPB. This may result in higher amortization and impairment in the value of our MSRs. Adverse economic conditions could also negatively impact our newly acquired lending business. For example, during the economic crisis, total U.S. residential mortgage originations volume decreased substantially. Moreover, declining home prices and increasing loan-to-value ratios may preclude many potential borrowers from refinancing their existing loans. Further, an increase in prevailing interest rates could decrease originations volume. A continued deterioration or a delay in the recovery of the residential mortgage market may reduce the number of loans that we service or originate, adversely affect our ability to sell mortgage loans or increase delinquency rates. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to obtain sufficient capital to meet the financing requirements of our business, which may prevent us from having sufficient funds to conduct our operations or meet our obligations on our advance facilities. Our financing strategy includes the use of significant leverage. Accordingly, our ability to finance our operations and repay maturing obligations rests in large part on our ability to continue to borrow money. Our ability to borrow money is affected by a variety of factors including: • limitations imposed on us by existing lending and similar agreements that contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to raise additional debt; • liquidity in the credit markets; • the strength of the lenders from whom we borrow; and • limitations on borrowing on advance facilities which is limited by the amount of eligible collateral pledged and may be less than the borrowing capacity of the facility. An event of default, a negative ratings action by a rating agency, the perception of financial weakness, an adverse action by a regulatory authority, a lengthening of foreclosure timelines or a general deterioration in the economy that constricts the availability of credit may increase our cost of funds and make it difficult for us to renew existing credit facilities or obtain new lines of credit. Our advance facilities are revolving facilities, and in a typical monthly cycle, we repay up to one-third of the borrowings under these facilities from collections. During the remittance cycle, which starts in the middle of each month, we depend on our lenders to provide the cash necessary to make remittances to the Servicing investors where new advances represent eligible collateral under our advance facilities. If one or more of these lenders were to fail, we may not have sufficient funds to meet our obligations. 18 A significant increase in prepayment speeds could adversely affect our financial results. Prepayment speed is a significant driver of our business. Prepayment speed is the measurement of how quickly borrowers pay down the UPB of their loans or how quickly loans are otherwise brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. Prepayment speeds have a significant impact on our servicing fee revenues, our expenses and on the valuation of our MSRs as follows: • Revenue. If prepayment speeds increase, our servicing fees will decline more rapidly than anticipated because of the greater than expected decrease in the UPB on which those fees are based. The reduction in servicing fees would be somewhat offset by increased float earnings because the faster repayment of loans will result in higher float balances that generate the float earnings. Conversely, decreases in prepayment speeds result in increased servicing fees but lead to lower float balances and float earnings. • Expenses. Amortization of MSRs is one of our largest operating expenses. Since we amortize servicing rights in proportion to total expected income over the life of a portfolio, an increase in prepayment speeds leads to increased amortization expense as we revise downward our estimate of total expected income. Faster prepayment speeds also result in higher compensating interest expense. Decreases in prepayment speeds lead to decreased amortization expense as the period over which we amortize MSRs is extended. Slower prepayment speeds also lead to lower compensating interest expense. • Valuation of MSRs. We base the price we pay for MSRs and the rate of amortization of those rights on, among other things, our projection of the cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If prepayment speeds were significantly greater than expected, the carrying value of our MSRs that we account for using the amortization method could exceed their estimated fair value. When the carrying value of these MSRs exceeds their fair value, we are required to record an impairment charge which has a negative impact on our financial results. Similarly, if prepayment speeds were significantly greater than expected, the fair value of our MSRs which we carry at fair value could decrease. When the fair value of these MSRs decreases, we record a loss on fair value which also has a negative impact on our financial results. We may be unable to maintain or expand our servicing portfolio. Our servicing portfolio may be prepaid prior to maturity, refinanced with a mortgage loan not serviced by us or involuntarily liquidated through foreclosure or other liquidation process. As a result, our ability to maintain the size of our servicing portfolio depends on our ability to acquire the right to service or subservice additional pools of residential mortgage loans or to originate additional loans for which we retain the MSRs. We may not be able to acquire MSRs or enter into additional fee-based servicing agreements on terms favorable to us or at all, due to factors such as decreased residential mortgage loan production and competition. Although Homeward has been originating mortgage loans since November 2011, its track record in this line of business is still limited and subject to uncertainty. Furthermore, third party originators have relationships with more than one correspondent lender and may elect to sell some or all of their loans to one or more correspondent lenders other than us. We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain assets, such as MSRs. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be required to write down the value of these assets which could adversely affect our earnings. We estimate the fair value of our MSRs by calculating the present value of expected future cash flows utilizing assumptions that we believe are used by market participants. The methodology used to estimate these values is complex and uses asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for interest and discount rates and liquidity dates. Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships that drive the results of our valuation methodologies. If prepayment speeds increase more than estimated, delinquency and default levels are higher than anticipated or financial market illiquidity continues beyond our estimate, we may be required to write down the value of certain assets which could adversely affect our earnings. A downgrade in our servicer ratings could have an adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition or results of operations. Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch rate us as a mortgage servicer. Favorable ratings from these agencies are important to the conduct of our loan servicing business. As disclosed in “Operating Segments-Servicing-Third-Party Servicer Ratings”, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch downgraded their residential subprime servicing ratings of OLS in 2011. Downgrades in servicer ratings could adversely affect our ability to finance servicing advances and maintain our status as an approved servicer by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Downgrades in our servicer ratings could also lead to the early termination of existing advance facilities and affect the terms and availability of match funded advance facilities that we may seek in the future. In addition, some of our PSAs require that we maintain specified servicer ratings. Our failure to maintain favorable or specified ratings may cause our termination as servicer and further impair our ability to consummate future servicing transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Loan putbacks could adversely affect our business. Homeward’s contracts with purchasers of originated loans contain provisions that require indemnification or repurchase of the related loans under certain circumstances. Additionally, in one of the servicing contracts that Homeward acquired in 2008 from Freddie Mac involving non-prime mortgage loans, it assumed the origination representations and warranties even though it did not originate the loans. While the language in the purchase contracts varies, they contain provisions that require Homeward to indemnify purchasers of related loans or repurchase such loans if: • representations and warranties concerning loan quality, contents of the loan file or loan • underwriting circumstances are inaccurate; • adequate mortgage insurance is not secured within a certain period after closing; • a mortgage insurance provider denies coverage; or • there is a failure to comply, at the individual loan level or otherwise, with regulatory requirements. In addition, in connection with the Rescap Acquisition, we assumed potential liabilities with respect to a portfolio of mortgage loans that, if they are not made current, foreclosed upon or otherwise resolved within specified timeframes, could result in repurchase demands for affected mortgage loans from Freddie Mac. Similar repurchase liabilities could also result from newly-originated loans from our lending business that are sold to Freddie Mac for securitization. We believe that, as a result of the current market environment, many purchasers of residential mortgage loans are particularly aware of the conditions under which originators must indemnify or repurchase loans and under which such purchasers would benefit from enforcing any indemnification rights and repurchase remedies they may have. As our lending business grows, we expect that our exposure to indemnification risks and repurchase requests is likely to increase. If home values continue to decrease, our realized loan losses from loan repurchases and indemnifications may increase as well. As a result, our reserve for repurchases may increase beyond our current expectations. If we are required to indemnify or repurchase loans that we originate and sell, and where we have assumed this risk on loans that we service, as discussed above, in either case resulting in losses that exceed our related reserve, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Ocwen was a party to loan sales and securitizations dating back to the 1990s. The majority of securities issued in these transactions has been retired and are not subject to put-back risk. There is one remaining securitization with an original UPB of approximately $200 million where Ocwen provided representations and warranties and the loans were originated in the last decade. Ocwen performed due diligence on each of the loans included in this securitization. The outstanding UPB of this securitization was $41.2 million at December 31, 2012, and the outstanding balance of the notes was $41.1 million. Ocwen is not aware of any inquiries or claims regarding loan put-backs for any transaction where we made representations and warranties. We do not expect loan put-backs related to these loans to result in any material change to our financial position, operating results or liquidity. In several recent court actions, mortgage loan sellers against whom repurchase claims have been asserted based on alleged breaches of representations and warranties are defending on various grounds including the expiration of statutes of limitation, lack of notice and opportunity to cure and vitiation of the obligation to repurchase as a result of foreclosure or charge off of the loan. Ocwen is not a party to any of the actions, but we are the servicer for certain securitizations involved in such actions. Should Ocwen be made a party to these or similar actions, we may need to defend allegations that we failed to service loans in accordance with applicable agreements and that such failures prejudiced the rights of repurchase claimants against loan sellers. We believe that any such allegations would be without merit and, if necessary, would vigorously defend against them. If, however, we were required to compensate claimants for losses related to seller breaches of representations and warranties in respect of loans we service, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our earnings may be inconsistent. Our past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends may not be reliable indicators of anticipated financial performance or trends in future periods. The consistency of our operating results may be significantly affected by inter-period variations in our current operations including the amount of servicing rights acquired and the changes in realizable value of those assets due to, among other factors, increases or decreases in prepayment speeds, delinquencies or defaults. Certain non-recurring gains and losses that have significantly affected our operating results in the past may result in substantial inter-period variations in financial performance in the future. 20 Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our exposure to interest rate risk. At present, we have entered into interest rate swaps to fix our exposure to variable interest rates under our match funded advance funding facilities. If we are successful in acquiring additional servicing or sub-servicing rights, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the fixed rate financing that would be necessary to protect us from the effect of rising interest rates. Therefore, we may consider utilizing various derivative financial instruments to protect against the effects of rising rates. In addition, we use interest rate swaps, U.S. Treasury futures, forward contracts and other derivative instruments to hedge our interest rate exposure on loans and MSRs measured at fair value. Nevertheless, no hedging strategy can completely protect us. The derivative financial instruments that we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risks. Poorly designed strategies, improperly executed and documented transactions or inaccurate assumptions could actually increase our risks and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot be assured that our hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risks of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in or magnify losses. We have significant operations in India that could be adversely affected by changes in the political or economic stability of India or by government policies in India or the U.S. More than 67% of our employees are located in India. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. The political or regulatory climate in the U.S. or elsewhere also could change so that it would not be lawful or practical for us to use international operations centers. For example, changes in privacy regulations could require us to curtail our use of lower-cost operations in India to service our businesses. If we were to cease our operations in India and transfer these operations to another geographic area, we could incur increased overhead costs that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent in India. Unless we are able to continue to enhance the efficiency and productivity of our employees, wage increases in the long term may reduce our profitability. Technology failures could damage our business operations or reputation and increase our costs. The financial services industry as a whole is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, and system disruptions and failures may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our customers. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet and other electronic distribution and communication systems is essential to our maintaining consumer confidence in certain of our services. Security breaches, computer viruses, acts of vandalism and developments in computer capabilities could result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we use to protect our borrowers’ personal information and transaction data. Consumers generally are concerned with security breaches and privacy on the Internet, and Congress or individual states could enact new laws regulating the electronic commerce market that could adversely affect us. In addition, given the volume of transactions that we process and monitor, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and rectified. If one or more of such events occurs, this could potentially jeopardize data integrity or confidentiality of information processed and stored in, or transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, which could result in our facing significant losses, reputational damage and legal liabilities. Our business is substantially dependent on our ability to process and monitor a large number of transactions, many of which are complex, across numerous and diverse real estate markets. These transactions often must adhere to the terms of complex legal agreements, as well as legal and regulatory standards. We are responsible for developing and maintaining operational systems and infrastructure, which is challenging. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume or unforeseen catastrophic events, potentially resulting in data loss and adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. The loss of the services of our senior managers could have an adverse effect on us. The experience of our senior managers is a valuable asset to us. Our executive chairman, William C. Erbey, has been with us since our founding in 1987, and our president and chief executive officer, Ronald M. Faris, joined us in 1991. Other senior managers have been with us for 10 years or more. We do not have employment agreements with, or maintain key man life insurance relating to, Mr. Erbey, Mr. Faris or any of our other executive officers. The loss of the services of our senior managers could have an adverse effect on us. 21 Our directors and executive officers collectively own a large percentage of our common shares and could influence or control matters requiring shareholder approval. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively own or control approximately 17% of our outstanding common shares (excluding stock options). This includes approximately 13% owned or controlled by our executive chairman, William C. Erbey, and approximately 4% owned or controlled by our director and former chairman, Barry N. Wish. As a result, these shareholders could influence or control virtually all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the amendment of our articles of incorporation, the approval of mergers or similar transactions and the election of all directors. We are exposed to market risk, including, among other things, liquidity risk, prepayment risk and foreign currency exchange risk. We are exposed to liquidity risk primarily because of the highly variable daily cash requirements to support our servicing business including the requirement to make advances pursuant to servicing contracts and the process of remitting borrower payments to the custodial accounts. We are also exposed to liquidity risk by our need to originate and finance mortgage loans and sell mortgage loans into the secondary market. In general, we finance our operations through operating cash flows and various other sources of funding including match funded agreements, secured lines of credit and repurchase agreements. We believe that we have adequate financing for the next twelve months. We are exposed to interest rate risk to the degree that our interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice at different speeds, or on different bases, than our interest earning assets or when financed assets are not interest-bearing. Our servicing business is characterized by non-interest earning assets financed by interest bearing liabilities. Among the more significant non-interest earning assets are servicing advances and MSRs. At December 31, 2012, we had total advances and match funded advances of $3.2 billion. We are also exposed to interest rate risk because a portion of our advance funding and other outstanding debt at December 31, 2012 is variable rate. Rising interest rates may increase our interest expense. Nevertheless, earnings on float balances partially offset this variability. We have also entered into interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to rising interest rates. The MSRs which we measure at fair value are subject to substantial interest rate risk as the mortgage notes underlying the servicing rights permit the borrowers to prepay the loans. We enter into economic hedges (derivatives that do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes) including interest rate swaps, U.S. Treasury futures and forward contracts to minimize the effects of loss in value of these MSRs associated with increased prepayment activity that generally results from declining interest rates. In our lending business, we are subject to interest rate and price risk on mortgage loans held for sale from the loan funding date until the date the loan is sold into the secondary market. Generally, the fair value of a loan will decline in value when interest rates increase and will rise in value when interest rates decrease. To mitigate this risk, we enter into forward trades to provide an economic hedge against those changes in fair value on mortgage loans held for sale. Interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) represent an agreement to purchase loans from a third-party originator or an agreement to extend credit to a mortgage applicant, whereby the interest rate is set prior to funding. As such, outstanding IRLCs are subject to interest rate risk and related price risk during the period from the date of the commitment through the loan funding date or expiration date. Our interest rate exposure on these derivative loan commitments is hedged with freestanding derivatives such as forward contracts. We enter into forward contracts with respect to fixed rate loan commitments. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in connection with our investment in non-U.S. dollar functional currency operations to the extent that our foreign exchange positions remain unhedged. Our operations in Uruguay and India expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk, but we consider this risk to be insignificant. We have periodically entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge against the effect of changes in the value of the India Rupee on amounts payable to our subsidiary in India. No such forward contracts were outstanding as of December 31, 2012. Risks Relating to Government Regulation Regulatory scrutiny regarding foreclosure processes could lengthen timelines or increase prepayment speeds which would negatively affect our liquidity and profitability. The process to foreclose on properties securing residential mortgage loans is governed by state law and varies by state. As discussed in the “Operating Segments - Servicing” section, state banking regulators and state attorneys general have publicly announced that they have initiated inquiries into banks and servicers regarding compliance with legal procedures in connection with mortgage foreclosures, including the preparation, execution, notarization and submission of documents, principally affidavits, filed in connection with foreclosures. For the most part, these inquiries have arisen from the 25 so-called “judicial states,” namely, those jurisdictions that require lenders or their servicers to go through a judicial proceeding to obtain a foreclosure order. In these judicial states, lenders or their servicers are generally required to provide to the court the mortgage loan documents and a sworn and notarized affidavit of an officer of the lender or its servicer with respect to the facts regarding the delinquency of the mortgage loan and the foreclosure. These affidavits are generally required to be based on the personal knowledge of the officer that executes the affidavit after a review of the mortgage loan documents. Regulators from “quasi-judicial states” and “non-judicial states,” however, have made similar inquiries as well. In these states, lenders or their servicers may foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan by delivering to the borrower a notice of the foreclosure sale without the requirement of going through a judicial proceeding, unless the borrower contests the foreclosure or files for bankruptcy. If the borrower contests the foreclosure or files for bankruptcy in a non-judicial state, court proceedings, including affidavits similar to those provided in the judicial states are generally required. 22 In connection with the continuing governmental scrutiny of foreclosure processes and practices in the industry, some jurisdictions have enacted laws and adopted procedures that have the effect of increasing the time that it takes to complete a foreclosure or prevent foreclosures in such jurisdictions. When a mortgage loan is in foreclosure, we are generally required to continue to advance delinquent principal and interest to the securitization trust and to make advances for delinquent taxes and insurance and foreclosure costs and the upkeep of vacant property in foreclosure to the extent that we determine that such amounts are recoverable. These servicing advances are generally recovered when the delinquency is resolved. Regulatory actions that lengthen the foreclosure process will increase the amount of servicing advances that we are required to make, lengthen the time it takes for us to be reimbursed for such advances and increase the costs incurred during the foreclosure process. In addition, advance financing facilities generally contain provisions that limit the eligibility of servicing advances to be financed based on the length of time that the servicing advances are outstanding. Certain of our match funded advance facilities have provisions that limit new borrowings if average foreclosure timelines extend beyond a certain time period. As a result, an increase in foreclosure timelines could further increase the amount of servicing advances that we need to fund with our own capital. Such increases in foreclosure timelines could increase our interest expense, delay the collection of servicing fee revenue until the foreclosure has been resolved and, therefore, reduce the cash that we have available to pay our operating expenses. Governmental bodies may also impose regulatory fines or penalties as a result of our foreclosure processes or impose additional requirements or restrictions on such activities which could increase our operating expenses. For instance, in April 2011 the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) entered into consent orders with the fourteen largest mortgage servicers to address alleged deficient practices in residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure processing. Under the consent orders, these mortgage servicers are required to submit written remediation plans that address enterprise-wide risk management, internal audit and compliance programs for their residential mortgage loan servicing, loss mitigation and foreclosure activities. Remedial measures required under these consent orders and written plans may include, among other measures, revisions to servicing operations and remediation of all financial injury to borrowers caused by any errors, misrepresentations or other deficiencies identified in the parties’ recent foreclosures. Ocwen is not subject to OCC, FRB or FDIC regulation, and therefore, it has not been subject to any consent decree initiated by these federal regulatory agencies. Nevertheless, Ocwen could become subject to similar consent decrees, enforcement actions or investigations as a result of other federal or state regulatory or legislative action. On February 9, 2012, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Attorneys General representing 49 states and the District of Columbia and other agencies announced a $25 billion settlement (the National Mortgage Settlement) with the five largest mortgage servicers—Bank of America Corporation, JP Morgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo & Company, Citigroup Inc. and Ally Financial Inc. (formerly GMAC)—regarding servicing and foreclosure issues. In addition to assessing monetary penalties which are required to be used to provide financial relief to borrowers (including refinancing and principal write-downs), the National Mortgage Settlement requires that these servicers implement changes in how they service mortgage loans, handle foreclosures and provide information to bankruptcy courts. As part of the ResCap Acquisition, Ocwen will be required to service the ResCap loans in accordance with the requirements of the National Mortgage Settlement. The Office of Mortgage Settlement Oversight, which is responsible for monitoring compliance with obligations under the National Mortgage Settlement, issued a report on February 14, 2013 confirming that Ally/ResCap have completed its minimum consumer relief obligations. 23 Governmental and legal proceedings and related costs could adversely affect our financial results. An adverse result in a governmental investigation or private lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits, could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Ocwen and certain of its affiliates have been named as defendants in a number of lawsuits, including purported class actions, challenging our residential loan servicing practices. We are also subject to a number of pending federal and state regulatory investigations, examinations, inquiries, requests for information and/or other actions. In July 2010, OLS received two subpoenas from the Federal Housing Finance Agency as conservator for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in connection with ten private label mortgage securitization transactions where Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae have invested. The transactions include mortgage loans serviced but not originated by OLS or its affiliates. On November 24, 2010, OLS received a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) from the FTC requesting documents and information regarding various servicing activities. On June 6, 2012, the FTC notified OLS that it had referred this CID to the CFPB. On November 7, 2011, OLS received a CID from the Attorney General’s Office of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts requesting documents and information regarding certain foreclosures executed in Massachusetts. On January 18, 2012, OLS received a subpoena from the New York Department of Financial Services (NY DFS) requesting documents regarding OLS’ policies, procedures and practices regarding lender-placed or “force-placed” insurance which is required to be provided for borrowers who allow their hazard insurance policies to lapse. Separately, on December 5, 2012 we entered into a Consent Order with the NY DFS in which we agreed to the appointment of a Monitor to oversee our compliance with the Agreement on Servicing Practices. A process is underway with respect to the selection and appointment of a Monitor by the NY DFS, and we intend to continue to cooperate with respect thereto. On August 13, 2012, OLS received a request from the Multi-State Mortgage Committee of the Conference of State Bank Supervisors (MMC) to provide information and data relating to our loan servicing portfolio, including loan count and volume data, loan modifications, fees assessed, delinquencies, short sales, loan-to-value data and rating agency reports. The MMC, along with the CFPB, certain state Attorneys General and other agencies who were involved in the National Mortgage Settlement, also requested that we indicate our position on behalf of OLS and Litton on the servicing standards and consumer relief provisions contained in the National Mortgage Settlement executed by five large bank servicers. We are cooperating with and providing requested information to each of the agencies involved in the foregoing actions. Specifically in response to the request from the MMC, CFPB, state Attorneys General and other agencies, we indicated our willingness to adopt the servicing standards set out in the National Mortgage Settlement with certain caveats. We further indicated our willingness to undertake various consumer assistance commitments in the form of loan modifications and other foreclosure avoidance alternatives. On November 30, 2012, prior to our completion of the Homeward Acquisition, two CIDs were issued to Homeward Residential, Inc. (HRI) by the U.S. Department of Justice, Eastern District of Texas, as part of an investigation of whether HRI violated the False Claims Act in connection with its participation in the Home Affordable Mortgage Program (HAMP). We were advised by HRI that documents and information have been provided pursuant to these CIDs. The investigation remains open, and we intend to cooperate in the event there are further informational requests. On February 26, 2013, the MMC, CFPB and state Attorneys General requested that we consider a proposal to contribute to a consumer relief fund that would provide cash payments to borrowers foreclosed upon by OLS and various entities we have acquired. We believe the maximum liability under this proposal would be approximately $135 million. We do not believe such a contribution from us is warranted under the circumstances and have so notified the requesting parties. It is reasonably possible that legal proceedings could ensue with regard to this matter and, if so, we will defend vigorously. At this time, the amounts, if any, that ultimately could be incurred with regard to this matter are not reasonably estimable. One or more of the foregoing regulatory actions or similar actions in the future against Ocwen, OLS, Litton or Homeward could cause us to incur fines, penalties, settlement costs, damages, legal fees or other charges in material amounts, or undertake remedial actions pursuant to administrative orders or court-issued injunctions, any of which could adversely affect our financial results or incur additional significant costs related to our loan servicing operations.. For more information about our legal proceedings, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” The expanding body of federal, state and local regulation and/or the licensing of mortgage servicers, collection agencies or other aspects of our business may increase the cost of compliance and the risks of noncompliance. As noted in the “Regulation” section, the servicing of residential mortgage loans is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations and administrative decisions. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years and is likely to continue to increase. If our regulators impose new or more restrictive requirements, we may incur additional significant costs to comply with such requirements which may further adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws and regulations could lead to civil and criminal liability; loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry; fines, penalties and litigation, including class action lawsuits; or administrative enforcement actions. Any of these outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 24 FHFA and GSE initiatives and other actions may affect mortgage servicing generally and future servicing fees in particular. In 2011, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae each issued their Servicing Alignment Initiative as directed by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The Servicing Alignment Initiative established new requirements primarily related to loss mitigation processes, including servicer incentives and compensatory fees that could be charged to servicers based on performance against benchmarks for various metrics. Through our servicing relationship with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, in part as a result of our acquisition of Litton, we have potential exposure to such compensatory fees. It is possible that the compensatory fees could substantially increase the costs and risks associated with servicing Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae non-performing loans. Moreover, due to the significant role Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the secondary mortgage market, it is possible that compensatory fee requirements and similar initiatives that they implement could become prevalent in the mortgage servicing industry generally. Other industry stakeholders or regulators may also implement or require changes in response to the perception that current mortgage servicing practices and compensation do not serve broader housing policy objectives well. To the extent that FHFA and/or the GSEs implement reforms that materially affect the market for conforming loans, there may also be indirect effects on the subprime and Alt-A markets, which could include material adverse effects on the creation of new mortgage servicing rights, the economics or performance of any mortgage servicing rights that we acquire, servicing fees that we can charge and costs that we incur to comply with new servicing requirements. Federal and state legislative and GSE initiatives in residential mortgage-backed securities, or RMBS, and securitizations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. There are federal and state legislative and GSE initiatives that could, once fully implemented, adversely affect our loan origination business. For instance, the risk retention requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act requires securitizers to retain a minimum beneficial interest in RMBS they sell through a securitization, absent certain qualified residential mortgage (QRM) exemptions. Once implemented, the risk retention requirement may result in higher costs of certain lending operations and impose on us additional compliance requirements to meet servicing and originations criteria for QRMs. Additionally, the amendments to Regulation AB relating to the registration statement required to be filed by asset-backed securities, or ABS, issuers recently adopted by the SEC pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act and for other expected amendments to such regulations and other relevant regulations has increased and may further increase compliance costs for ABS issuers, such as ourselves, which will in turn increase our cost of funding and operations. If the CFPB’s final rule regarding the ability-to-repay requirement and the qualified mortgage (QM) definition contains a rebuttable presumption of a lender’s satisfaction of its obligations to determine the borrower’s ability to repay, rather than a legal safe harbor for QMs, we believe that this would result in potential liability and legal uncertainty for lenders, leading to restricted access to credit for consumers and reduced volume of loans for us to originate. Potential violations of predatory lending and/or servicing laws could negatively affect our business. Various federal, state and local laws have been enacted that are designed to discourage predatory lending and servicing practices. The federal Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, or HOEPA, prohibits inclusion of certain provisions in residential loans that have mortgage rates or origination costs in excess of prescribed levels and requires that borrowers be given certain additional disclosures prior to origination. Some states have enacted, or may enact, similar laws or regulations, which in some cases impose restrictions and requirements greater than those in HOEPA. In addition, under the anti-predatory lending laws of some states, the origination of certain residential loans, including loans that are not classified as “high cost” loans under HOEPA or other applicable law, must satisfy a net tangible benefits test with respect to the related borrower. This test may be highly subjective and open to interpretation. As a result, a court may determine that a residential loan, for example, does not meet the test even if the related originator reasonably believed that the test was satisfied. A failure by us to comply with these laws, to the extent we acquire or service any of their residential loans that are non-compliant with HOEPA or other predatory lending or servicing laws, could subject us, as a servicer or an originator, or as an assignee or purchaser, in the case of acquired loans, to monetary penalties and could result in the borrowers rescinding the affected loans. Lawsuits have been brought in various states making claims against originators, servicers, assignees and purchasers of high cost loans for violations of state law. Named defendants in these cases have included numerous participants within the secondary mortgage market. If our loans are found to have been originated in violation of predatory or abusive lending laws, we could incur losses, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to government loan modification and refinance programs may adversely affect future incremental revenues. Under government programs such as HAMP, a participating servicer may be entitled to receive financial incentives in connection with modification plans it enters into with eligible borrowers and subsequent “pay for success” fees to the extent that a borrower remains current in any agreed upon loan modification. Changes in current legislative actions regarding such loan modification and refinance programs, future U.S. federal, state and/or local legislative or regulatory actions that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans, and changes in the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing mortgage loans may impact the extent to which we participate in and receive financial benefits from such programs in the future and may have a material effect on our business. To the extent that we continue to participate in the HAMP, there is no guarantee of future incremental revenues from this source. 25 The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SAFE Act, or other legislative and regulatory developments may adversely affect our business. As disclosed in the “Regulation” section, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may impact our business. For example, we may be required to clear and exchange trade some or all of the swap transactions that we enter into which could result in higher cost, less transaction flexibility and price disclosure. Because many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require rulemaking action by governmental agencies to implement, we cannot predict the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on Ocwen and its business. The Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (the S.A.F.E. Act) requires the individual licensing and registration of those engaged in the business of loan origination. The S.A.F.E. Act is designed to improve accountability on the part of loan originators, combat fraud and enhance consumer protections by encouraging states to establish a national licensing system and minimum qualification requirements for applicants. HUD is the federal agency charged with establishing and enforcing a licensing and registration system that meets the minimum requirements of the S.A.F.E. Act. On December 15, 2009, HUD proposed a rule that would extend the licensing requirements for loan originators to servicing personnel who are performing modifications. The servicing industry has responded to this proposed rule by requesting that HUD reconsider its position as the licensing costs and impact to the modification process will increase the cost of servicing, including our costs of servicing any affected mortgage loans. It is not known at this time whether HUD will modify its proposed licensing requirements for servicing personnel. Additionally, the U.S. Congress, regulators and/or various state and local governing bodies may enact other legislation or take regulatory action designed to address mortgage servicing practices, housing finance policy or the current economic crisis that could have an adverse effect on Ocwen and its business. Risks Relating to Acquisitions Pursuit of business acquisitions or MSR asset acquisitions exposes us to additional liabilities that could adversely affect us. We periodically explore business acquisition and MSR asset acquisition opportunities. In connection with such acquisition opportunities, we may be exposed to unknown or contingent liabilities of the businesses, assets and liabilities that we acquire, and if these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected. As a part of the Litton Acquisition, Goldman Sachs and Ocwen have agreed to indemnification provisions for the benefit of the other party. While Goldman Sachs has agreed to retain certain potential liabilities for fines and penalties that could be imposed by certain government authorities relating to Litton’s pre-closing foreclosure and servicing practices, Goldman Sachs and Ocwen have agreed to share certain losses arising out of potential third-party claims in connection with Litton’s pre-closing performance under its servicing agreements. Goldman Sachs has agreed to be liable for (i) 80% of any such losses until the amount paid by Goldman Sachs is equal to 80% of the Goldman Shared Loss Cap and (ii) thereafter, 20% of any such losses until the amount paid by Goldman Sachs is equal to the Goldman Shared Loss Cap. Ocwen has agreed to be liable for (i) 20% of any such losses until the amount paid by Ocwen is equal to 20% of the Goldman Shared Loss Cap, (ii) thereafter, 80% of any such losses until the amount paid by Ocwen is equal to the Goldman Shared Loss Cap and (iii) thereafter, 100% of any such losses in excess of the Goldman Shared Loss Cap. The “Goldman Shared Loss Cap” is $123.7 million, or 50%, of the adjusted base purchase price of the Litton Acquisition. We cannot assure you that Goldman Sachs will be able to fulfill its indemnification obligations or that the losses incurred by Ocwen will not exceed our original projections. As a part of the 2012 Saxon MSR Transaction, the sellers and Ocwen have agreed to indemnification provisions for the benefit of the other party. While the sellers have agreed to retain certain contingent liabilities for losses, fines and penalties that could result from claims by government authorities and certain third parties relating to pre-closing foreclosure, servicing and loan origination practices, the sellers and Ocwen have agreed to share certain losses arising out of potential third-party claims in connection with the seller’s pre-closing performance under its servicing agreements. The sellers have agreed to be liable for (i) 75% of any such losses until the amount paid by the sellers is equal to 60% of the Saxon Shared Loss Cap of $83 million and (ii) thereafter, 25% of any such losses until the amount paid by the sellers is equal to the Saxon Shared Loss Cap. Ocwen has agreed to be liable for (i) first, 25% of any such losses until the amount paid by the sellers is equal to 60% of the Saxon Shared Loss Cap, (ii) second, 75% of any such losses until the amount paid by the sellers is equal to the Saxon Shared Loss Cap and (iii) thereafter, 100% of any such losses in excess of the Saxon Shared Loss Cap. We cannot assure you that the sellers will be able to fulfill their indemnification obligations or that the losses incurred by Ocwen will not exceed our original projections. 26 As a part of the Homeward Acquisition the sellers and Ocwen have agreed to indemnification provisions for the benefit of the other party. In particular, sellers have agreed to retain 75% of contingent liabilities for losses arising out of potential third-party claims in connection with the seller’s pre-closing servicing or accounting errors, settlements with government authorities, and settlements, penalties or compensatory fees incurred with GSEs, up to $100 million of such losses. Sellers have escrowed $75 million of the purchase price for the Homeward Acquisition for 21 months from the date of the closing to pay any amounts owed in respect of such losses. Ocwen has agreed to be liable for (i) 25% of any such losses up to $100 million and (ii) 100% of such losses, if any, in excess of $100 million. We cannot assure you that the losses incurred by Ocwen will not exceed our original projections. In addition, in connection with the Rescap Acquisition, we assumed potential liabilities with respect to a portfolio of mortgage loans that, if they are not made current, foreclosed upon or otherwise resolved within specified timeframes, could result in repurchase demands for affected mortgage loans from Freddie Mac. We may be required to pay for certain above-described losses in connection with acquisitions. While we reserve amounts to pay for any of the above-described losses that are incurred in connection with such acquisitions, those reserves may not be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses, and if any such losses exceed the amount in the reserves, we would recognize losses covering such excess amount, which would adversely affect our net income and stockholders’ equity and, depending on the extent of such excess losses, could adversely affect our business. It is possible that certain financial covenants in our credit facilities would be breached by such excess losses. Pursuit of business acquisitions or MSR asset acquisitions exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us. The performance of the assets we acquire through acquisitions may not match the historical performance of our other assets. We cannot guarantee that the assets we acquire will perform at levels meeting our expectations. We may find that we overpaid for the acquired assets or that the economic conditions underlying our acquisition decision have changed. It may also take several quarters for us to fully integrate the newly acquired assets into our business, during which period our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. Further, certain one-time expenses associated with such acquisitions may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The acquisition of entities and non-financial assets also requires integration of the systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated, time consuming and can be disruptive to the borrowers of the loans serviced by the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its borrowers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within our expected timeframe, and we may lose subservicing business or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience a greater than anticipated loss of business even if the integration process is successful. Further, prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices that we considered to be acceptable, and we expect that we will experience this condition in the future. In addition, in order to finance an acquisition we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. It is also possible that we will expend considerable resources in the pursuit of an acquisition that, ultimately, either does not close or is terminated. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock price may experience substantial volatility which may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price. The market price of our shares of common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. For example, the closing market price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange fluctuated during 2012 between $13.75 per share and $38.80 per share and may continue to fluctuate. Therefore, the volatility may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an advantageous price. Market price fluctuations in our common stock may be due to acquisitions, dispositions or other material public announcements along with a variety of additional factors including, without limitation, those set forth under “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” In addition, the stock markets in general, including the New York Stock Exchange, recently have experienced extreme price and trading fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility in the market prices of securities that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market prices of our common stock. Because of certain provisions of our organizational documents, takeovers may be more difficult possibly preventing you from obtaining an optimal share price. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that the total number of shares of all classes of capital stock that we have authority to issue is 220 million, of which 200 million are common shares and 20 million are preferred shares. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of the shareholders, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued and to issue such shares. The issuance of preferred shares could delay or prevent a change in control. Since our Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of the preferred shares without a shareholder vote, our Board of Directors may give the holders of preferred shares preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of our common shares. We have 162,000 shares of Series A Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. The holders of Preferred Shares are entitled to vote on all matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote, voting together with the holders of the common stock as a single class, with each share of common stock entitled to one vote per share and each Preferred Share entitled to one vote for each share of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Preferred Share as of the record date for such vote or, if no record date is specified, as of the date of such vote. 27 Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid. As of December 31, 2012, we had 135,637,932 shares of common stock outstanding. As of that date, approximately 17% of our common stock was held by our officers and directors and their affiliates. As of that same date, another approximately 13% of our common stock was held by two investors. As a result of our relatively small public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the common stock of companies with broader public ownership. The trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our common stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. Risks Relating to the Separation of Altisource We could have conflicts with Altisource, and our Chairman of the Board, and other officers and directors, could have conflicts of interest due to their relationships with Ocwen and Altisource which may be resolved in a manner adverse to us. Conflicts may arise between Ocwen and Altisource as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. Among other things, we became a party to a variety of agreements with Altisource in connection with and after the Separation, and we may enter into further agreements with Altisource in the future. Certain of our executive officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to such agreements and other matters due to their relationships with Altisource. William C. Erbey, Ocwen’s executive Chairman of the Board, became Altisource’s non-executive Chairman of the Board as a result of the Separation. As a result, he has obligations to us as well as to Altisource and may potentially have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting Ocwen and Altisource. Mr. Erbey owns substantial amounts of Altisource common stock and stock options because of his relationships with Altisource. This ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our Chairman of the Board is faced with decisions that involve Ocwen, Altisource or any of their respective subsidiaries. Matters that could give rise to conflicts between Ocwen and Altisource include, among other things: • any competitive actions by Altisource; • the quality and pricing of services that Altisource has agreed to provide to us or that we have agreed to provide to Altisource and • our ongoing and future relationships with Altisource, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits, indemnification and other matters. We have adopted policies, procedures and practices to avoid potential conflicts involving significant transactions with related parties such as Altisource, including Mr. Erbey’s recusal from negotiations regarding and credit committee and board approvals of such transactions. We will also seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with Altisource and through oversight by independent members of our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that such measures will be effective, that we will be able to resolve all conflicts with Altisource or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with a third party. The tax liability to Ocwen as a result of the Separation could be substantial. Prior to the Separation, any assets transferred to Altisource or non-U.S. subsidiaries were taxable pursuant to Section 367(a) of the Code, or other applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code) and Treasury regulations. Taxable gains not recognized in the restructuring were generally recognized pursuant to the Separation itself under Section 367(a). The taxable gain recognized by Ocwen attributable to the transfer of assets to Altisource equaled the excess of the fair market value of each asset transferred over Ocwen’s basis in such asset. Ocwen’s basis in some assets transferred to Altisource may have been low or zero which could result in a substantial tax liability to Ocwen. In addition, the amount of taxable gain was based on a determination of the fair market value of Ocwen’s transferred assets. The determination of fair market values of non-publicly traded assets is subjective and could be subject to closing date adjustments or future challenge by the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) which could result in an increased U.S. federal income tax liability to Ocwen. 28 Tax regulations under Section 7874 of the Code, if held applicable to the Separation, could materially increase tax costs to Ocwen. IRS tax regulations under Section 7874 can apply to transactions where a U.S. corporation contributes substantially all of its assets, including subsidiary equity interests, to a foreign corporation and distributes shares of such corporation. We do not believe that Section 7874 of the Code applies to the Separation because “substantially all” of Ocwen’s assets were not transferred to the distributed company or its subsidiaries. Ocwen’s board of directors required that Ocwen and Altisource receive an independent valuation prior to completing the Separation; however, if the IRS were to successfully challenge the independent valuation, then Ocwen may not be permitted to offset the taxable gain recognized on the transfer of assets to Altisource with net operating losses, tax credits or other tax attributes. This could materially increase the tax costs to Ocwen of the Separation. The tax liability to Ocwen as a result of the transfer of assets to OMS could be substantial Pursuant to the formation of OMS, Ocwen transferred significant assets to OMS in a taxable transaction. Ocwen recognized gain, but not loss, on this transfer equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the transferred assets over Ocwen’s tax basis therein. The fair market value of the transferred assets was based on market standard valuation methodology and confirmed by an independent valuation firm. However, the IRS could challenge this valuation, and if such a challenge were successful, any tax imposed as a result of the transfer could be significant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 