ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS There are certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from those anticipated. Risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect us include, without limitation, the following factors. A number of risks and uncertainties are associated with the proposed Merger. On December 19, 2013, we entered into the Merger Agreement providing for the acquisition of Jones by Sycamore. The transaction is structured as a one-step merger with Jones as the surviving corporation. A number of risks and uncertainties are associated with the Merger. For example, there can be no assurance that certain customary conditions to closing of the Merger will be satisfied or, to the extent permitted, waived, including the adoption of the Merger Agreement by our shareholders, the absence of any legal prohibitions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the parties, compliance by the parties with their respective obligations under the Merger Agreement and the absence of a Jones material adverse effect. Other events may also intervene to delay or result in the termination of the Merger, including litigation relating to the Merger, and the Merger may not be consummated in the time frame or manner currently anticipated or at all. If the Merger is not completed, the price of our common stock may decrease to the extent that the current market price of such stock reflects an assumption that the Merger will be consummated. The Merger Agreement contains "no shop" provisions that, subject to certain exceptions, limit our ability to discuss, facilitate or commit to third-party acquisition proposals to acquire all or a significant part of Jones. Pending the closing of the Merger, the Merger Agreement also restricts us from engaging in certain actions without Sycamore's consent, which could prevent us from carrying out previously announced restructuring initiatives or from likewise pursuing opportunities that may arise prior to the closing of the Merger. In addition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, we could be required to pay a termination fee of $36 million to Sycamore or to reimburse Sycamore for certain of its expenses incurred in connection with the contemplated transaction in an amount of up to $12 million. The obligation to make the termination fee payment also could discourage a third party from pursuing an alternative acquisition proposal. If the proposed Merger is completed, we will no longer exist as a public company and our shareholders will forego any increase in our value that might have otherwise resulted from our possible future growth. Our business could be adversely impacted as a result of uncertainty related to the proposed Merger or by the failure to consummate the Merger. The proposed Merger could cause disruptions to our business or our business relationships, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with us, which may adversely affect our ability to hire and retain key personnel, and parties with which we have business relationships may experience uncertainty as to the future of such relationships and seek alternative relationships with third parties or seek to alter their present business relationships with us. In addition, our management team and other employees are devoting significant time and effort to activities related to the proposed Merger. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed Merger, and many of these fees and costs are payable regardless of whether or not the Merger is consummated. In the event the Merger is not consummated for any reason, or the timing of its consummation is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of the incurring of these significant additional expenses and the diversion of management attention. - 24 - Our executive officers and directors may have interests that are different from, or in addition to, those of our shareholders generally. Our executive officers and directors may have interests in the proposed Merger that are different from, or are in addition to, those of our shareholders generally. These interests include the acceleration and "cash-out" of restricted shares and share units; certain severance benefits that may be payable upon termination following a change in control; and the right to continued indemnification and insurance coverage by the acquirer, the surviving corporation and Sycamore after the Merger. The interests of our directors and executive officers in the proposed Merger are described in more detail in the proxy statement regarding the Merger that we filed with the SEC. We are subject to litigation initiated in connection with the proposed Merger, which could be time consuming and divert our resources and the attention of our management. As described in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we and the individual members of our board of directors have been named as defendants in certain lawsuits relating to the Merger Agreement and the proposed Merger. The lawsuits generally allege that our directors breached their fiduciary duties by authorizing the Merger for an inadequate price following an inadequate process. The lawsuits also allege that Jones, Sycamore and certain of its affiliates aided and abetted the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties by the directors. Plaintiffs seek an injunction preventing consummation of the Merger, rescission in the event the Merger is consummated, damages and attorneys' fees and costs. The success of our business depends on our ability to retain the heritage of and evolve our brands and to develop product offerings that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to consistently anticipate, gauge and respond to customers' demands and tastes and fashion trends in the design, pricing, style and production of our products. Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to those demands, tastes and trends could adversely affect acceptance of our products. If that occurs, we may need to employ increased levels of markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory or we may miss opportunities to increase sales, either of which would harm our business and profitability. Our success also depends on our ability to effectively define, protect, evolve and promote our brands to expand our customer base while continuing to appeal to our existing customers. Merchandise missteps could negatively impact the image of our brands with our customers and result in diminished loyalty to our brands, which would adversely impact our business. The apparel, footwear and accessories industries are heavily influenced by general economic cycles that affect consumer spending. A prolonged period of depressed consumer spending would have a material adverse effect on us. The apparel, footwear and accessories industries have historically been subject to cyclical variations, recessions in the general economy and uncertainties regarding future economic prospects that affect consumer spending habits, which could negatively impact our business. The success of our operations depends on a number of factors impacting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, consumer confidence, wages and unemployment, housing prices, consumer debt, interest rates, fuel and energy costs, taxation and political conditions. To the extent there is a downturn in the economy, it may affect consumer purchases of our products and adversely impact our growth and profitability. We may not be able to respond to changing fashion and retail trends in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on us. The apparel, footwear and accessories industries have historically been subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. We believe that our success is largely dependent on our ability to anticipate and respond promptly to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in the design, styling and production of our products and in the merchandising and pricing of products in our retail - 25 - stores. If we do not identify consumer preferences and fashion trends and respond appropriately with speed that fulfills customer needs, we may miss opportunities, and consumers may not purchase our products. This would result in reduced sales and profitability and in excess inventories, which would have a material adverse effect on us. We believe that consumers in the United States are shopping less in department stores (our traditional distribution channel) and more in other channels, such as specialty shops, mid-tier locations and e-commerce websites where value is perceived to be higher. In response, our strategy involves adding new distribution channels, increasing investment in our core brands by focusing on design, quality and value and implementing new and enhanced retail systems. Despite our efforts to respond to these trends, there can be no assurance that these trends will not have a material adverse effect on us. The loss of or a significant reduction of business with any of our largest customers would have a material adverse effect on us. Our ten largest customer groups, principally department stores, accounted for approximately 49% of revenues in 2013. Macy's, Inc. accounted for approximately 15% of our 2013 gross revenues. We believe that purchasing decisions are generally made independently by department store units within a customer group. There has been a trend, however, toward more centralized purchasing decisions. As such decisions become more centralized, the risk to us of such concentration increases. A decision by the controlling owner of a customer group of department stores to modify those customers' relationships with us (for example, decreasing the amount of product purchased from us, modifying floor space allocated to apparel in general or our products specifically, or focusing on promotion of private label products rather than our products) could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, we believe a trend exists among our major customers to concentrate purchasing among a narrowing group of vendors. To the extent any of our key customers reduces the number of vendors and consequently does not purchase from us, this would have a material adverse effect on us. In the future, retailers may have financial problems or consolidate, undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could further increase the concentration of our customers. The loss of any of our largest customers, or the bankruptcy or material financial difficulty of any large customer, would have a material adverse effect on us. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our customers, and sales to customers generally occur on an order-by-order basis. As a result, customers can terminate their relationships with us at any time or under certain circumstances cancel or delay orders. The apparel, footwear and accessories industries are highly competitive. Any increased competition could result in reduced sales or prices, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Apparel, footwear and accessories companies face competition on many fronts, including the following: · establishing and maintaining favorable brand recognition; · developing products that appeal to consumers; · pricing products appropriately; and · obtaining access to retail outlets and sufficient floor space. There is intense competition in the sectors of the apparel, footwear and accessories industries in which we participate. We compete with many other manufacturers and retailers, some of which are larger and have greater resources than we do. Any increased competition could result in reduced sales or prices, or both, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We compete primarily on the basis of fashion, price and quality. We believe our competitive advantages include our ability to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer demands, our brand names and range of products and our ability to operate within the industries' production and - 26 - delivery constraints. Furthermore, our established brand names and relationships with retailers have resulted in a loyal following of customers. We believe that, during the past few years, major department stores and specialty retailers have been increasingly sourcing products from suppliers who are well capitalized or have established reputations for delivering quality merchandise in a timely manner. However, there can be no assurance that significant new competitors will not develop in the future. We also provide design and manufacturing resources to several of our wholesale customers to develop product lines to be sold under their own private labels. These and other private label lines compete directly with our product lines and may receive more prominent positioning on the retail floor by department stores. While this creates more competition, we believe that national brands are often preferred by the consumer. We depend on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our executive officers and other members of senior management have substantial experience and expertise in our business. Our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of these individuals as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional talented and highly qualified management, as well as key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing and other functions to execute management's strategic initiatives, in the future. Competition for key executives in the apparel, footwear and accessories industries is intense, and our operations and the execution of our business strategies could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified executives and other key personnel. Our reliance on independent manufacturers could cause delay and damage our reputation and customer relationships. We rely upon independent third parties for the manufacture of our products. A manufacturer's failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet the required quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. The failure to make timely deliveries may drive customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. This could damage our reputation. We do not have long-term written agreements with any of our third party manufacturers. As a result, any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationships with us at any time. Although we have an active program to train our independent manufacturers in, and monitor their compliance with, our labor and other factory standards, any failure by those manufacturers to comply with our standards or any other divergence in their labor or other practices from those generally considered ethical in the United States and the potential negative publicity relating to any of these events could materially harm us and our reputation. The extent of our foreign sourcing and contract manufacturing may adversely affect our business. Nearly all of our products are manufactured outside of North America. The following may adversely affect foreign operations: · political instability in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; · imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports; · imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on imports; · significant fluctuation of the value of the U.S. Dollar, Euro and Pound against other foreign currencies; · labor shortages in countries where contractors and suppliers are located; and · restrictions on the transfer of funds to or from foreign countries. As a result of our foreign sourcing, our domestic business is subject to the following risks: - 27 - · a reduction in available manufacturing capacity, resulting from the closing of foreign factories that have experienced substantial declines in orders; · uncertainties of sourcing associated with an environment in which general quota has been eliminated on apparel products pursuant to the World Trade Organization Agreement; · reduced manufacturing flexibility because of geographic distance between us and our foreign manufacturers, increasing the risk that we may have to mark down unsold inventory as a result of misjudging the market for a foreign-made product; · increases in manufacturing costs in the event of a decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar or Euro against major world currencies, particularly the Chinese Yuan, and higher labor and commodity costs being experienced by our foreign manufacturers in China; and · violations by foreign contractors of labor and wage standards and resulting adverse publicity. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could cause delay and increase costs. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of the fabrics or other raw materials used by us in our manufactured apparel and in the price of materials used to manufacture our footwear and accessories could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our customers' demands. The prices for such fabrics and materials depend largely on the market prices for the raw materials used to produce them, particularly cotton, leather and synthetics. The price and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. In the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to our customers. The loss or infringement of our trademarks and other proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on us. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis. There can be no assurances that such actions taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violative of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Moreover, there can be no assurances that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, our trademarks and other proprietary rights or that we will be able to successfully resolve such conflicts. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. The loss of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, or the loss of the exclusive use of such trademarks and other proprietary rights, could have a material adverse effect on us. Any litigation regarding our trademarks could be time-consuming and costly. Any inability to identify acquisition candidates (or to integrate acquired businesses successfully) could have a material effect on our future growth. A significant part of our historical growth has depended on our ability to identify acquisition candidates and, in a competitive environment for such acquisitions, acquire such businesses on reasonable financial and other terms. Difficulties in integrating the organizations and operations of any acquired businesses into our existing organization and operations could have a material adverse effect on us and could damage our reputation. The current state of the economy and the tightening of commercial credit markets may impair our ability to obtain capital on favorable terms. We rely on our revolving credit facilities for backing the issuance of trade letters of credit and other supply chain purposes, and also from time to time for cash borrowings for working capital and general corporate purposes. Our current $650 million revolving credit facility matures on April 28, 2016. The loss of the use of this facility or the inability to replace this facility when it expires could materially impair our ability to purchase product from our network of independent foreign manufacturers. In addition, - 28 - considering the uncertainties of the present economic environment, it is possible, in general, that one or more committed lenders would not meet its obligations to lend to borrowers, and there is no assurance we would be able to replace any such lender. We rely on our licensing partners to preserve the value of our brands. During 2013, $43.2 million of our revenues were derived from licensing royalties. Although we generally have significant control over our licensees' products and advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things, operational and financial controls over their businesses. Failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if necessary, could adversely affect our revenues, both directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. Risks are also associated with a licensee's ability to: · obtain capital; · manage its labor relations; · maintain relationships with its suppliers; · manage its credit risk effectively; and · maintain relationships with its customers. In addition, we rely on our licensees to help preserve the value of our brands. Although we make every attempt to protect our brands through, among other things, approval rights over design, production processes and quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of our brands by our licensees. The misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on us. We have entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others. Loss of a license could have an adverse effect on us. Our business strategy is based on offering our products in a variety of brands, channels and price points. This strategy is designed to provide stability should market trends shift. As part of this strategy we license the names and brands of recognized designers and celebrities, including Givenchy, Rachel Roy, Jessica Simpson, Rafe and Lipsy. In entering into these license agreements, we target our products towards certain market segments based on consumer demographics, design, suggested pricing and channel of distribution in order to minimize competition with our own brands and maximize profitability. If any of our licensors determines to introduce similar products under similar brand names or otherwise change the parameters of design, pricing, distribution or target market, we could experience a significant downturn in that brand's business, adversely affecting our sales and profitability. In addition, as products may be personally associated with these designers and celebrities, our sales of those products could be materially and adversely affected if any of those individual's images, reputations or popularity were to be negatively impacted. A security or privacy breach could adversely affect us. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In the normal course of our business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential information pertaining to our customers, our employees and other third parties. We, and our third-party service providers, have systems and processes in place that are designed to protect information and protect against security and data breaches. Despite these safeguards, our systems and processes may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, lost data, inadvertent data disclosure or other similar events. Any failure to protect the confidential data of our customers, employees or third parties could damage our reputation and customer relationships, expose us to the costs and risks of litigation and possible liability, disrupt our operations and adversely impact our business. - 29 - Extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business. Extreme weather events and changes in weather patterns can influence customer trends and shopping habits. Extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season may diminish demand for our seasonal merchandise. Heavy snowfall, hurricanes or other severe weather events in the areas in which our retail stores and the retail stores of our wholesale customers are located may decrease customer traffic in those stores and reduce our sales and profitability. If severe weather events were to force closure of or disrupt operations at the distribution centers we use for our merchandise, we could incur higher costs and experience longer lead times to distribute our products to our retail stores, wholesale customers or e-commerce customers. If prolonged, such extreme or unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and performance will be affected by our ability to implement our strategic initiatives to enhance profitability. One of our key business objectives is enhancing profitability. To support that goal, we have identified the following long-term strategic plans: revitalizing our core brands; investing in emerging brands; expanding our international footprint; improving direct-to-consumer performance; and achieving excellence in our operations. Our ability to execute these strategies successfully and achieve our projected results is subject to various risks and uncertainties affecting our business generally, which are described elsewhere under this "Risk Factors" section, and the inherent challenges in managing and carrying out the change necessary to implement long-term strategic plans. The risks and uncertainties in successfully implementing these strategies include, but are not limited to, those listed below. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our long-term strategic plans will be successful or will result in enhanced profitability. · Revitalizing our core brands involves retaining the heritage of and evolving those brands to increase demand for our products. In part, we are pursuing this goal by transitioning from product category management to brand management to achieve harmonized design across product categories and build stronger emotional brand connections with our customers. Implementing this strategy also depends upon our ongoing ability to develop product offerings that resonate with our existing customers and attract new customers, and to effectively communicate distinctive brand identities through merchandising and innovative marketing. · Investing in emerging brands depends on our ability to identify appropriate brands with good prospects for growth, acquire those brands or invest in associated businesses on reasonable financial and other terms, successfully nurture the growth of such brands into expanded product categories and/or additional markets, and efficiently integrate the organization and operations of such businesses into our existing organization and operations. · Expanding our international footprint depends on our ability to accurately assess the demographics, consumer fashion preference and demand, and retail environment in new geographic markets, to develop successful distribution strategies, structures and alliances in appropriate markets, and to secure suitable retail locations on reasonable financial and other terms. Our success in expanding internationally also depends on general economic conditions affecting the countries into which we expand and the competition we may face from wholesalers and retailers with more operating experience in those locations. · Improving direct-to-consumer performance depends on our ability to create compelling retail environments in our stores and on e-commerce websites through changes in layout and merchandise assortments, to apply appropriate pricing strategies and to manage inventory levels. If any increased capital investments in our stores, websites, distribution facilities and information technology systems necessary to execute this strategy do not result in increased sales or improved gross margins, our results of operations could be unfavorably affected. - 30 - · Achieving excellence in our operations depends on our ongoing ability to improve operating flexibility and efficiency and reduce costs by, among other things, leveraging our supply chain and strategic relationships with manufacturers, third-party logistics providers and retail vendors to optimize our cost structure and enhance speed to market, developing and implementing better buying and planning processes, and maintaining and enhancing our information and other support systems and controls to improve product development cycle times and control inventory. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 