Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information in this report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks described below before purchasing our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with our Businesses as a Whole We have incurred losses, and our business will suffer if we fail to achieve profitability in the future. Because product discovery and development require substantial lead-time and money prior to commercialization, our expenses have exceeded our revenue since we were founded in January 1989. As of December 31, 2006, we had accumulated losses of approximately $816.8 million and stockholders’ equity of approximately $68.6 million. Most of the losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and from selling, general and administrative costs associated with our operations. Most of our revenue has come from collaborative arrangements, with additional revenue from research grants and the sale or licensing of patents as well as interest income. We currently have only one product, Vitravene, approved for commercial use. This product has limited sales potential, Novartis, and our exclusive distribution partner for this product no longer markets it. We expect to incur additional operating losses over the next several years, and these losses may increase if we cannot increase or sustain revenue. We may not successfully develop any additional products or services, or achieve or sustain future profitability. If we fail to obtain timely funding, we may need to curtail or abandon some of our programs. All of our drugs are undergoing clinical trials or are in the early stages of research and development. All of our drugs under development will require significant additional research, development, preclinical and/or clinical testing, regulatory approval and a commitment of significant additional resources prior to their commercialization. Based on reasonable assumptions for new sources of revenue and cash, we believe we have sufficient resources to meet our anticipated requirements through at least the second half of 2010. If we do not meet our goals to commercialize our products, or to license our drugs and proprietary technologies, we will need additional funding in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, such as the following: · changes in existing collaborative relationships and our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborative arrangements; · continued scientific progress in our research, drug discovery and development programs; · the size of our programs and progress with preclinical and clinical trials; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; · competing technological and market developments, including the introduction by others of new therapies that address our markets; · success in developing and commercializing a business based on our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System to identify infectious organisms; and · the profile and launch timing of our drugs. 35 If we need additional funds, we may need to raise them through public or private financing. Additional financing may not be available at all or on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the shares of existing stockholders will be diluted and their price, as well as the price of our other securities, may decline. If adequate funds are not available or not available on acceptable terms, we may have to cut back on one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs. For example, in January 2005 we decided to terminate the development of two lower priority drugs, ISIS 14803 and ISIS 104838. Alternatively, as in our transaction with Symphony GenIsis, we may obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others, which could require us to give up rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or products. Since corporate partnering is a key part of our strategy to fund the development and commercialization of our development programs, if any of our collaborative partners fail to fund our collaborative programs, or if we cannot obtain additional partners, we may have to delay or stop progress on our product development programs. To date, corporate partnering has played a key role in our strategy to fund our development programs and to add key development resources. We plan to continue to rely on additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our products, including our two lead products ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715. However, we may not be able to negotiate additional attractive collaborative arrangements. Many of the drugs in our development pipeline are being developed and/or funded by corporate partners, including Antisense Therapeutics Limited, iCo Therapeutics, Inc., ImQuest Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Merck & Co., Inc., OncoGenex Technologies Inc. and Lilly. If any of these pharmaceutical companies stopped funding and/or developing these products, our business could suffer and we may not have the resources available to develop these products on our own. Our collaborators can terminate their relationships with us under certain circumstances, some of which are outside of our control. For example, in November 2004 based on the disappointing results of the Phase 3 clinical trials, Lilly discontinued its investment in Affinitak. In addition, the disappointing results of the two Affinitak clinical trials, our Phase 3 clinical trials of alicaforsen in patients with active Crohn’s disease, or any future clinical trials could impair our ability to attract new collaborative partners. If we cannot continue to secure additional collaborative partners, our revenues could decrease and the development of our drugs could suffer. Even with funding from corporate partners, if our partners do not effectively perform their obligations under our agreements with them, it would delay or stop the progress of our product development programs. In addition to receiving funding, we enter into collaborative arrangements with third parties to: · conduct clinical trials; · seek and obtain regulatory approvals; and · manufacture, market and sell existing and future products. Once we have secured a collaborative arrangement to further develop and commercialize one of our development programs, these collaborations may not continue or result in commercialized drugs, or may not progress as quickly as we anticipated. 36 For example, a collaborator could determine that it is in its financial interest to: · pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products that may be competitive with the product that is part of the collaboration with us; · pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its own development programs; or · choose to devote fewer resources to our drugs than it does for drugs of its own development. If any of these occur, it could affect our partner’s commitment to the collaboration with us and could delay or otherwise negatively affect the commercialization of our drugs. If we cannot protect our patents or our other proprietary rights, others may compete more effectively against us. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to continue to develop and secure intellectual property rights to proprietary products and services. However, we may not receive issued patents on any of our pending patent applications in the United States or in other countries. In addition, the scope of any of our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide us with a competitive advantage. Furthermore, our issued patents or patents licensed to us may be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier or revenue source. In addition, our Ibis business relies in part on trade secret laws and nondisclosure, confidentiality and other agreements to protect some of the proprietary technology that is part of the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System. However, these laws and agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for Ibis’ trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of these agreements. To date, virtually all of Ibis’ research and development activities have been funded under contracts from the U.S. government (either directly or through subcontracts from prime contractors or higher-tier subcontractors). As a general matter, subject to certain disclosure, notice, filing, acknowledgement and reporting obligations, Ibis is entitled to retain title to any inventions conceived or first reduced to practice under government contracts, but the government will have a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced these inventions for or on behalf of the United States. Intellectual property litigation could be expensive and prevent us from pursuing our programs. It is possible that in the future we may have to defend our intellectual property rights. In the event of an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to litigate to defend our rights or assert them against others. Disputes could involve arbitration, litigation or proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or the International Trade Commission or foreign patent authorities. Intellectual property litigation can be extremely expensive, and this expense, as well as the consequences should we not prevail, could seriously harm our business. For example, in December 2006, the European Patent Office (EPO) Technical Board of Appeal reinstated with amended claims our Patent EP0618925 which claims a class of antisense compounds, any of which is designed to have a sequence of phosphorothioate-linked nucleotides having two regions of chemically modified RNA flanking a region of DNA. Prior to its reinstatement, this patent was originally opposed by several parties and revoked by an EPO Opposition Division in December of 2003. We intend to fully exercise our rights under this patent by pursuing licensing arrangements, but if licensing efforts are unsuccessful we may choose to assert our rights through litigation. 37 If a third party claims that our products or technology infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we may have to discontinue an important product or product line, alter our products and processes, pay license fees or cease certain activities. We may not be able to obtain a license to needed intellectual property on favorable terms, if at all. There are many patents issued or applied for in the biotechnology industry, and we may not be aware of patents or applications held by others that relate to our business. This is especially true since patent applications in the United States are filed confidentially. Moreover, the validity and breadth of biotechnology patents involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal issues remain unresolved. If we do not progress in our programs as anticipated, the price of our securities could decrease. For planning purposes, we estimate and may disclose the timing of a variety of clinical, regulatory and other milestones, such as when we anticipate a certain drug will enter the clinic, when we anticipate completing a clinical trial, or when we anticipate filing an application for marketing approval. We base our estimates on present facts and a variety of assumptions. Many underlying assumption are outside of our control. If we do not achieve milestones in accordance with our or investors’ expectations, the price of our securities would likely decrease. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, could make it more difficult to run our business and reduce our likelihood of success. We are dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers that would prevent them from leaving Isis. The loss of our management and key scientific employees might slow the achievement of important research and development goals. It is also critical to our success that we recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced scientific personnel on acceptable terms because of intense competition for experienced scientists among many pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. In addition, failure to succeed in clinical trials may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel. If the price of our securities continues to be highly volatile, this could make it harder for you to liquidate your investment and could increase your risk of suffering a loss. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many other biopharmaceutical companies, has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. These fluctuations in our common stock price may significantly affect the trading price of our securities. During the 12 months preceding December 31, 2006, the market price of our common stock ranged from $5.09 to $14.00 per share. On March 5, 2007, the closing price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market was $8.37. Many factors can affect the market price of our securities, including, for example, fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of collaborations, clinical trial results, technological innovations or new products being developed by us or our competitors, governmental regulation, regulatory approval, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern regarding the safety of our drugs and general market conditions. Because we use biological materials, hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds, if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds that could be 38 hazardous to human health and safety or the environment. These materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facilities in Carlsbad, California pending ultimate use and disposal. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause: · interruption of our research, development and manufacturing efforts; · injury to our employees and others; · environmental damage resulting in costly clean up; and · liabilities under federal, state and local laws and regulations governing health and human safety, as well as the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and resultant waste products. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Although we carry insurance in amounts and type that we consider commercially reasonable, we do not have insurance coverage for losses relating to an interruption of our research, development or manufacturing efforts caused by contamination, and we cannot be certain that the coverage or coverage limits of our insurance policies will be adequate. In the event our losses exceed our insurance coverage, our financial condition would be adversely affected. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our research and development facilities, it could delay our progress developing and commercializing our drugs or our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System. We are developing our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System in our facility located in Carlsbad, California. Additionally, we manufacture our research and clinical supplies in a separate manufacturing facility located in Carlsbad, California. The facilities and the equipment we use to develop the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System and manufacture our drugs would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Either of our facilities may be harmed by natural or man-made disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods, fires and acts of terrorism, and in the event they are affected by a disaster, our development and commercialization efforts would be delayed. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, other agreements and Delaware law may prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Our certificate of incorporation provides for classified terms for the members of our board of directors. Our certificate also includes a provision that requires at least 66% of our voting stockholders to approve a merger or certain other business transactions with, or proposed by, any holder of 15% or more of our voting stock, except in cases where certain directors approve the transaction or certain minimum price criteria and other procedural requirements are met. Our certificate of incorporation also requires that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be taken at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be taken by written consent. In addition, only our board of directors, chairman of the board or chief executive officer can call special meetings of our stockholders. We also have implemented a stockholders’ rights plan, also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. These provisions, as well as Delaware law and other of our agreements, may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interests. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to fix the 39 rights and preferences of and issue shares of preferred stock, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company without action by our stockholders. In addition, the provisions of our convertible subordinated notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or a portion of their notes, which may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market prices. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect trading prices of our securities. We have granted registration rights to Lilly, which cover approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock, which we issued to Lilly upon the conversion of outstanding convertible securities. We also registered for resale 12,000,000 shares of our common stock and 2,999,998 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants we issued as part of our August 2005 private placement as well as 4.25 million shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrant we issued to Symphony GenIsis Holdings. In addition, on December 22, 2005, we filed a Form S-3 shelf registration statement with the SEC to register up to $200,000,000 worth of our common stock for possible issuance. Finally, we have granted registration rights to the holders of our 25¤8% convertible subordinated notes that include the approximately 11,111,116 shares issuable upon conversion of the notes. The addition of any of these shares into the market may have an adverse effect on the price of our securities. Our business is subject to changing regulations for corporate governance and public disclosure that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Each year we are required to evaluate our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on and our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to attest to, our internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, we will incur additional expenses and will suffer a diversion of management’s time. In addition, if we cannot continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) or the NASDAQ Stock Market. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Risks Associated with our Drug Discovery and Development Business If we or our partners fail to obtain regulatory approval for our drugs, we will not be able to sell them. We and our partners must conduct time-consuming, extensive and costly clinical trials to show the safety and efficacy of each of our drugs, including ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715, before a drug can be approved for sale. We must conduct these trials in compliance with FDA regulations and with comparable regulations in other countries. If the FDA or another regulatory agency believes that we or our partners have not sufficiently demonstrated the safety or efficacy of our drugs, including ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715, it will not approve them or will require additional studies, which can be time consuming and expensive and which will delay commercialization of a drug. We and our partners may not be able to obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of our drugs, including ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715. Failure to receive these approvals or delays in these approvals could prevent or delay commercial introduction of a product, including ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715, and, as a result, could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from product sales. In addition, following approval of a 40 drug, we and our partners must comply with comprehensive government regulations regarding how we manufacture, market and distribute drug products. If we fail to comply with these regulations, regulators could force us to withdraw a drug from the market or impose other penalties or requirements that also could have a negative impact on our financial results. We have only introduced one commercial drug product, Vitravene. We cannot guarantee that any of our other drugs, including ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715, will be safe and effective, will be approved for commercialization or that our partners or we can successfully commercialize these drugs. If the results of clinical testing indicate that any of our drugs under development are not suitable for commercial use we may need to abandon one or more of our drug development programs. Drug discovery and development has inherent risks and the historical failure rate for drugs is high. Antisense technology in particular is relatively new and unproven. If we cannot demonstrate that our drugs, including ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715, are safe and effective drugs for human use, we may need to abandon one or more of our drug development programs. In the past, we have invested in clinical studies of drugs that have not met the primary clinical end points in their Phase 3 studies. In March 2003, we reported the results of a Phase 3 clinical trial of Affinitak in patients with late-stage non-small cell lung cancer and in October 2004, we reported the results of a second similar Phase 3 clinical trial. In each case, Affinitak failed to demonstrate improved survival sufficient to support an NDA filing. In December 2004, we reported the results of our Phase 3 clinical trials of alicaforsen in patients with active Crohn’s disease, in which alicaforsen did not demonstrate statistically significant induction of clinical remissions compared to placebo. Similar results could occur with the clinical trials for our other drugs. If any of our drugs in clinical studies do not show sufficient efficacy in patients with the targeted indication, it could negatively impact our development and commercialization goals for this and other drugs and our stock price could decline. Even if our drugs are successful in preclinical and early human clinical studies, these results do not guarantee these drugs will be successful in late-stage clinical trials. Successful results in preclinical or early human clinical trials, including the recently announced Phase 2 results for ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715, may not predict the results of late-stage clinical trials. There are a number of factors that could cause a clinical trial to fail or be delayed, including: · the clinical trial may produce negative or inconclusive results; · regulators may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for noncompliance with regulatory requirements; · we, our partners, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could suspend or terminate a clinical trial due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects or patients in the trial; · we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials; · enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate; · the cost of our clinical trials may be greater than we anticipate; and · the supply or quality of our drugs or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials may be insufficient, inadequate or delayed. 41 Any failure or delay in one of our clinical trials, including our Phase 2 development programs for ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715, could reduce the commercial viability of our drugs, including ISIS 301012 and ISIS 113715. We have licensed the intellectual property, including commercialization rights, to our apoB-100, GCGR, and GCCR programs to Symphony GenIsis, Inc. and will not receive any future royalties or revenues with respect to the products in these programs, including ISIS 301012, ISIS 325568 and ISIS 377131 unless we exercise our option to acquire all of these drugs in the future. We may not have the financial resources to exercise this option or sufficient clinical data in order to determine whether we should exercise this option prior to its expiration. We have licensed to Symphony GenIsis our intellectual property rights, including commercialization rights, to our apoB-100, GCGR, and GCCR programs in exchange for Symphony GenIsis’ investment of $75 million to advance the clinical development of these programs. In exchange for this investment and for a five-year warrant to purchase shares of our common stock we issued to Symphony GenIsis, we received an exclusive purchase option to acquire all of the equity of Symphony GenIsis, thereby allowing us to reacquire our apoB-100, GCGR and GCCR programs, which include ISIS 301012, ISIS 325568 and ISIS 377131. The purchase option exercise price reflects a compounded annual rate of return that averages 32% and is 27% at the end of the anticipated four-year collaborative development period. We may pay the option exercise price in cash or a combination of cash and our common stock, at our sole discretion, provided that the common stock portion may not exceed 33% of the purchase option exercise price. If we elect to exercise the purchase option, we will be required to make a substantial cash payment and/or issue a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or enter into a financing arrangement or license arrangement with one or more third parties, or some combination of the foregoing. A payment in cash would substantially reduce our capital resources. A payment in shares of our common stock will result in dilution to our stockholders at that time. Other financing or licensing alternatives may be expensive or impossible to obtain. If we do not exercise the purchase option prior to its expiration, we will lose our rights in our apoB-100, GCGR, and GCCR programs. We may not have the financial resources to exercise the purchase option, which would result in our loss of these rights. Additionally, we may not have sufficient clinical data in order to determine whether we should exercise the option. Disagreements between Symphony GenIsis and us regarding the development of our drugs in our apoB-100, GCGR, and GCCR programs may cause significant delays and other impediments in the development of these drugs, which could negatively affect the value of these drugs. We have licensed to Symphony GenIsis our intellectual property rights, including commercialization rights, to our drugs in our apoB-100, GCGR, and GCCR programs in exchange for Symphony GenIsis’ investment of $75 million to advance the clinical development of these programs. We are responsible for developing these drugs in accordance with a specified development plan and related development budget. The Symphony GenIsis development committee supervises our development activities. The development committee is comprised of an equal number of representatives from Isis and Symphony GenIsis. If the development committee cannot resolve a particular development issue, the issue will be referred to the chief executive officers of Isis and Symphony GenIsis. Any disagreements between Symphony GenIsis and us regarding a development decision may cause significant delays in the development and commercialization of our drugs within our apoB-100, GCGR, and GCCR programs. If the market does not accept our products, we are not likely to generate revenues or become profitable. Our success will depend upon the medical community, patients and third-party payors accepting our products as medically useful, cost-effective and safe. We cannot guarantee that, if approved for commercialization, doctors will use our products to treat patients. We currently have one commercially 42 available drug product, Vitravene, a treatment for cytomegalovirus, or CMV, retinitis in AIDS patients, which addresses a small market. Our partners and we may not successfully commercialize additional products. The degree of market acceptance for any of our products depends upon a number of factors, including: · the receipt and scope of regulatory approvals; · the establishment and demonstration in the medical and patient community of the efficacy and safety of our drugs and their potential advantages over competing products; · the cost and effectiveness of our drugs compared to other available therapies; · the patient convenience of the dosing regimen for our drugs; and · reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. Based on the profile of our drugs, physicians, patients, patient advocates, payors or the medical community in general may not accept and use any products that we may develop. If we cannot manufacture our drug products or contract with a third party to manufacture our drug products at costs that allow us to charge competitive prices to buyers, we will not be able to market products profitably. If we successfully commercialize any of our drugs, we may be required to establish large-scale commercial manufacturing capabilities. In addition, as our drug development pipeline increases and matures, we will have a greater need for clinical trial and commercial manufacturing capacity. We have limited experience manufacturing pharmaceutical products of the chemical class represented by our drugs, called oligonucleotides, on a commercial scale for the systemic administration of a drug. There are a small number of suppliers for certain capital equipment and raw materials that we use to manufacture our drugs, and some of these suppliers will need to increase their scale of production to meet our projected needs for commercial manufacturing. Further, we must continue to improve our manufacturing processes to allow us to reduce our product costs. We may not be able to manufacture at a cost or in quantities necessary to make commercially successful products. Also, manufacturers, including us, must adhere to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations which the FDA enforces through its facilities inspection program. We and our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply or maintain compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices regulations. Non-compliance could significantly delay or prevent our receipt of marketing approval for potential products or result in FDA enforcement action after approval that could limit the commercial success of our potential product. If our drug discovery and development business fails to compete effectively, our drugs will not contribute significant revenues. Our competitors are engaged in all areas of drug discovery throughout the world, are numerous, and include, among others, major pharmaceutical companies and specialized biopharmaceutical firms. Other companies are engaged in developing antisense technology. Our competitors may succeed in developing drugs that are: · priced lower than our drugs; · safer than our drugs; or · more effective than our drugs. 43 These competitive developments could make our products obsolete or non-competitive. Certain of our partners are pursuing other technologies or developing other drugs either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, to develop treatments for the same diseases targeted by our own collaborative programs. Competition may negatively impact a partner’s focus on and commitment to our drugs and, as a result, could delay or otherwise negatively affect the commercialization of our drugs. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical testing and human clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products and in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products for use in health care. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products earlier than we do. We will also compete with respect to marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. We depend on third parties in the conduct of our clinical trials for our drugs and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect our development and commercialization plans. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers in the conduct of our clinical trials for our drugs and expect to continue to do so in the future. For example, Medpace is the primary clinical research organization for clinical trials for ISIS 301012. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials, but do not control many aspects of their activities. For example, the investigators are not our employees. However, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations or a termination of our relationship with these third parties could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our drugs, including ISIS 301012. Risks Associated With Our Ibis Biosciences Business We may not successfully develop or derive revenues from our business based on our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System. Our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System is subject to the risks inherent in developing tools based on innovative technologies. Our product is at an early stage of development and requires continued research and development to achieve our business objectives. For Ibis to be commercially successful, we must convince potential customers that our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System is an attractive alternative to existing methods of identifying pathogens. If our potential customers fail to purchase our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System due to competition or other factors, or if we fail to develop applications that lead to market acceptance, we may not recover our investment in this technology and our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System business could fail to meet our business and financial objectives. If we fail to sell the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System to a minimum customer base, our ability to generate revenues from sales of assay kits will be negatively affected. A key element of our business plan for Ibis calls for us to deploy the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System to a broad customer base. If we cannot create a broad installed base of our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System, our ability to sell assay kits, the consumables used to operate the system, may be significantly and adversely affected. Even if we successfully achieve broad installation of the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System, customers may not perform as many analyses as we anticipate, which may affect the assumptions underlying our business plan for Ibis and lead to lower-than-expected revenues. 44 We will depend on Bruker Daltonics to manufacture the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System and any failure of Bruker Daltonics to fulfill its obligations could harm or delay our commercialization efforts. In July 2006, we entered into a strategic alliance with Bruker Daltonics to manufacture and distribute the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System. Bruker Daltonics will be the exclusive, worldwide manufacturer of the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System and will also be responsible for order processing, system installations and service in North America, Europe and the Middle East. In Europe and the Middle East, Bruker Daltonics will have exclusive rights to sell Ibis T5000 Biosensor Systems and Ibis assay kits for various government applications, and non-exclusive rights to sell to customers for all other applications except diagnostics. As such, we rely heavily on Bruker Daltonics to successfully manufacture and distribute our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System, but do not control many aspects of Bruker Daltonics activities. If Bruker Daltonics fails to carry out its obligations under our alliance, such failure could harm or delay the commercialization of our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System. If we fail to secure additional commercial or financial partners for our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System, our commercialization efforts for our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System may be harmed or delayed. In addition to Bruker Daltonics, we may depend on third parties to commercialize our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System, particularly in the areas of hospital-associated infection control and infectious disease diagnostics. Specifically, Ibis expects to depend on third parties to sell and distribute its assay kits to non-government customers in the healthcare-associated infection control and infectious disease diagnostic markets. We may not successfully establish a relationship in these markets or be able to make alternative arrangements. If we are unable to reach agreements with suitable commercial or financial partners, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System. Moreover, these relationships may not succeed, may require us to give up a part of our ownership interest, or may diminish our revenue targets on our Ibis instruments and related assay kits. We depend on government contracts for most of Ibis’ revenues and the loss of government contracts or a decline in funding of existing or future government contracts could adversely affect our revenues and cash flows. Virtually all of Ibis’ revenues are from the sale of services and products to the U.S. government. The U.S. government may cancel these contracts at any time without penalty or may change its requirements, programs or contract budget or decline to exercise option periods, even if we have fully performed our obligations. Since a large portion of Ibis’ government contracts are milestone based, if Ibis fails to meet a specific milestone within the specified delivery date, our government partner may be more likely to reduce or cancel its contract with Ibis. Our revenues and cash flows from U.S. government contracts could also be reduced by declines in U.S. defense, homeland security and other federal agency budgets. For the three months and year ended December 31, 2006, we derived approximately 13% and 37%, respectively, of our revenue from agencies of the U.S. government, including through our subcontract with SAIC. Because of the concentration of our contracts, we are vulnerable to adverse changes in our revenues and cash flows if a significant number of our U.S. government contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or canceled for budgetary, performance or other reasons. If U.S. defense and other federal agencies choose to reduce their purchases under our contracts, exercise their right to terminate contracts, fail to exercise options to renew contracts or limit our ability to obtain new contract awards, our revenues and cash flows could be adversely affected. 45 We may be liable for penalties under a variety of procurement rules and regulations, and changes in government regulations could adversely impact our revenues, operating expenses and operating margins. Under our agreements with the U.S. government, we must comply with and are affected by various government regulations that impact our operating costs, operating margins and our internal organization and operation of our businesses. These regulations affect how our customers and we do business and, in some instances, impose added costs on our businesses. Any changes in applicable laws could adversely affect the financial performance of Ibis. With respect to U.S. government contracts, any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. Among the most significant regulations are the following: · the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulations, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of government contracts; · the U.S. Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; and · the U.S. Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based government contracts. If our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System’s reliability does not meet market expectations, we may be unable to retain our existing customers and attract new customers. Complex instruments such as our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System typically require operating and reliability improvements following their initial introduction. As we continue to develop our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System and its related applications, we will need to make sure our customers are satisfied with the sensor’s reliability. Our efforts to satisfy our customer’s needs for instrument reliability could result in greater than anticipated service expenses or divert other resources. Additionally, if we fail to resolve reliability issues as they develop, we could materially damage our reputation, which could prevent us from retaining our existing customers and attracting new customers. If we had to replace a supplier of one of the major hardware components of our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System, it could delay our commercialization efforts and lengthen our sales cycle. We have a single supplier for each major hardware component of our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System. Although, we believe we would be able to find a replacement provider, if any of these suppliers stopped providing us with their respective components, identifying and securing a suitable replacement could delay our commercialization efforts and lengthen our sales cycle. If Ibis fails to compete effectively, it may not succeed or contribute significant revenues. The market for products such as Ibis’ is highly competitive. Currently, large reference laboratories, public health laboratories and hospitals perform the majority of diagnostic tests used by physicians and other health care providers. We expect that these laboratories will compete vigorously to maintain their dominance in the diagnostic testing market. To remain competitive, we will need to continually improve Ibis’ products so that, when compared to alternatives, its products: · provide faster results; · are cost-effective; · deliver more accurate information; · are more user friendly; and 46 · support a broad range of applications. If Ibis cannot keep its products ahead of its competitors in these areas, Ibis’ revenues will suffer and we may not meet our commercialization goals. Many of our competitors have, and in the future these and other competitors may have, significantly greater financial, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and technological resources than us. Moreover, these companies may have substantially greater expertise in conducting clinical trials and research and development, greater ability to obtain necessary intellectual property licenses and greater brand recognition than we do. In addition, our competitors may be in a better position to respond quickly to new or emerging technologies, may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, may adopt more aggressive pricing policies and may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners than we are. Improvements in preventing major diseases could reduce the need for our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System and related assay kits, which in turn could reduce our revenues. We expect to derive a significant portion of our Ibis revenues from the sale of assay kits necessary to use our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System. The need to quickly identify and contain major threats, such as the avian flu, could increase the demand for our assay kits. Conversely, improvements in containing or treating a threat, such as vaccines, would significantly reduce the need to identify and contain the threat. Any reduction in the need to identify or contain a threat could diminish the need for our assay kits, which could reduce our revenues. Our plans to commercialize the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System internationally are subject to additional risks that could negatively affect our operating results. Our success will depend in part on our ability and Bruker’s ability to market and sell the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System and assay kits in foreign markets. Expanding our international operations could impose substantial burdens on our resources, divert management’s attention from domestic operations and otherwise adversely affect our business. Furthermore, international operations are subject to several inherent risks including: · trade protective measures and import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by U.S. and foreign governments could prevent or limit our international sales; · reduced protection of intellectual property rights; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · changes in specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; and · changes in tax laws. If we cannot access or license rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products and access new markets. Although our research staff seeks to discover particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases, our ability to offer diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. Our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary access to raw materials or intellectual property rights from third parties who make any of these discoveries. If we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to develop new diagnostic products or enter new markets. 47 The sales cycles for our Ibis T5000 Biosensor Systems are lengthy, and we may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance of successfully selling our Ibis T5000 Biosensor Systems or services. The sales cycles for Ibis T5000 Biosensor Systems are typically lengthy. Our sales and licensing efforts, and those of our partners, will require the effective demonstration of the benefits, value, and differentiation and validation of our products and services, and significant training of multiple personnel and departments within a potential customer organization. We or our partners may be required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each prospective customer or licensee, which would lengthen the sales cycle. We may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance that we will sell our products. In addition, this lengthy sales cycle makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue in future periods and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly in future periods. If we or our partners are required to obtain regulatory approval for our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System, we may not successfully obtain approval. Ibis’ business plan assumes a significant portion of its revenues will come from Ibis T5000 Biosensor Systems and assay kits for in vitro diagnostic purposes, whose uses are regulated by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries. In addition, customers may wish to utilize the Ibis T5000 Biosensor System and assay kits in manners that require additional regulatory approval. To access these markets, Ibis’ products may require either premarket approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA and other regulatory agencies prior to marketing. The 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to twelve months from submission, but can take longer. The premarket approval process is much more costly, lengthy, and uncertain and generally takes from six months to two years or longer from submission. In addition, commercialization of any diagnostic or other product that our licensees or collaborators or we develop would depend upon successful completion of preclinical testing and clinical trials. Preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether we, our licensees or any of our collaborators, would be permitted or able to undertake clinical trials of any potential products. It may take us or our licensees or collaborators many years to complete any such testing, and failure could occur at any stage. Preliminary results of clinical trials do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. We or our collaborators may encounter delays or rejections of potential products based on changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. If our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System is considered a medical device, after gaining market approval from the FDA, our Ibis T5000 Biosensor System may be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, recordkeeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information. If we become subject to product liability claims relating to Ibis, we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Any product liability claim brought against us with respect to Ibis, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure coverage in the future. Expenses incurred by our insurance provider in defending these claims will reduce funds available to settle claims or pay adverse judgments. In addition, we could be liable for amounts in excess of policy limits, which would have to be paid out of our cash reserves, and our cash reserves may be insufficient to satisfy the liability. Finally, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could harm Ibis’ reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees, and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. 48 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 