Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report and in our other public filings in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with our Drug Discovery and Development Business If the market does not accept KYNAMRO and our other drugs, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, we are not likely to generate revenues or become consistently profitable. Even though KYNAMRO is approved for HoFH in the United States, and if any of our other drugs are approved for marketing, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, our success will depend upon the medical community, patients and third party payors accepting our drugs as medically useful, cost-effective and safe. Even when the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities approve our or our partners' drugs for commercialization, doctors may not prescribe our drugs to treat patients. We and our partners may not successfully commercialize additional drugs. In particular, even though KYNAMRO is approved for HoFH in the United States, it may not be commercially successful. Additionally, in many of the markets where we may sell our drugs in the future, if we cannot agree with the government regarding the price we can charge for our drugs, then we may not be able to sell our drugs in that market. The degree of market acceptance for KYNAMRO, and any of our other drugs, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, depends upon a number of factors, including the: ● receipt and scope of regulatory approvals; ● establishment and demonstration in the medical and patient community of the efficacy and safety of our drugs and their potential advantages over competing products; ● cost and effectiveness of our drugs compared to other available therapies; ● patient convenience of the dosing regimen for our drugs; and ● reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. Based on the profile of our drugs, physicians, patients, patient advocates, payors or the medical community in general may not accept and/or use any drugs that we may develop. In addition, cost control initiatives by governments or third party payors could decrease the price received for KYNAMRO or our other drugs or increase patient coinsurance to a level that makes KYNAMRO or our other drugs, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, unaffordable. If we fail to compete effectively, our drugs, including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, will not contribute significant revenues. Our competitors engage in drug discovery throughout the world, are numerous, and include, among others, major pharmaceutical companies and specialized biopharmaceutical firms. Other companies engage in developing antisense technology. Our competitors may succeed in developing drugs that are: ● priced lower than our drugs; ● safer than our drugs; ● more effective than our drugs; or ● more convenient to use than our drugs. 60 These competitive developments could make our drugs, including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, obsolete or non-competitive. Certain of our partners are pursuing other technologies or developing other drugs either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, to treat the same diseases our own collaborative programs target. Competition may negatively impact a partner's focus on and commitment to our drugs and, as a result, could delay or otherwise negatively affect the commercialization of our drugs, including KYNAMRO, which is approved, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical testing and human clinical studies of new pharmaceutical products and in obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of such products. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products earlier than we do. Marketing and sales capability is another factor relevant to the competitive position of our drugs, and we will rely on our partners to provide this capability. Regarding KYNAMRO, some competitors are pursuing a development or commercialization strategy that competes with our strategy for KYNAMRO. Other companies are currently developing products that could compete with KYNAMRO. Products such as microsomal triglyceride transfer protein inhibitors, or MTP inhibitors, and other lipid lowering drugs other companies are developing or commercializing could potentially compete with KYNAMRO. For example, Aegerion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. received approval from the FDA and the European Medicines Agency to market its MTP inhibitor, lomitapide, as an adjunct to a low-fat diet and other lipid-lowering treatments in patients with HoFH. Our revenues and financial position could suffer if KYNAMRO cannot compete effectively in the marketplace. There are several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged in the development or commercialization of products against targets that are also targets of products in our development pipeline. For example, drugs like tafamadis, diflunisal, and patisiran could compete with ISIS-TTRRx, drugs like Glybera, pradigastat and CAT-2003 could compete with ISIS-APOCIIIRx, and RG7800 and olesoxime and the other products that may emerge from early development programs designed to treat patients with SMA could compete with ISIS-SMNRx. KYNAMRO is, and, following approval any of our other drugs, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, could be, subject to regulatory limitations. Following approval of a drug, we and our partners must comply with comprehensive government regulations regarding the manufacture, marketing and distribution of drug products. We or our partners may not obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for successfully commercializing our drug products, including our approved drug, KYNAMRO, and our drugs in development including: ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities have the authority to impose significant restrictions on an approved drug product through the product label and on advertising, promotional and distribution activities. For example: ● KYNAMRO is approved in the United States as an adjunct to lipid-lowering medications and diet to reduce low density lipoprotein-cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, total cholesterol, and non-high density lipoprotein-cholesterol in patients with HoFH; ● the KYNAMRO label contains a Boxed Warning citing a risk of hepatic toxicity; and ● KYNAMRO is available only through a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy called the KYNAMRO REMS. 61 In addition, when approved, the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority may condition approval on the performance of post-approval clinical studies or patient monitoring, which could be time consuming and expensive. If the results of such post-marketing studies are not satisfactory, the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority may withdraw marketing authorization or may condition continued marketing on commitments from us or our partners that may be expensive and/or time consuming to fulfill. If we or others identify side effects after any of our drug products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems occur subsequent to regulatory approval, we or our partners may lose regulatory approval, or we or our partners may need to conduct additional clinical studies and/or change the labeling of our drug products including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. We depend on our collaboration with Genzyme for the development and commercialization of KYNAMRO. We have entered into a collaborative arrangement with Genzyme to develop and commercialize KYNAMRO. We entered into this collaboration primarily to: ● fund some of our development activities for KYNAMRO; ● seek and obtain regulatory approvals for KYNAMRO; and ● successfully commercialize KYNAMRO. In general, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources that Genzyme devotes to our collaboration. If Genzyme fails to further develop and commercialize KYNAMRO, or if Genzyme's efforts are not effective, our business may be negatively affected. We are relying on Genzyme to obtain additional marketing approvals for and successfully commercialize KYNAMRO. Our collaboration with Genzyme may not continue or result in the successful commercialization of KYNAMRO. Genzyme can terminate our collaboration at any time. If Genzyme stopped developing or commercializing KYNAMRO, we would have to seek additional sources for funding and may have to delay or reduce our development and commercialization programs for KYNAMRO. If Genzyme does not successfully commercialize KYNAMRO, we may receive limited or no revenues for KYNAMRO. In addition, Sanofi's acquisition of Genzyme could disrupt Genzyme or distract it from performing its obligations under our collaboration. If Genzyme cannot manufacture finished drug product for KYNAMRO or the post-launch supply of the active drug substance for KYNAMRO, KYNAMRO may not achieve or maintain commercial success. We rely on Genzyme to manufacture the finished drug product for KYNAMRO and the long term supply of KYNAMRO drug substance. Genzyme may not be able to reliably manufacture KYNAMRO drug substance and drug product to support the long term commercialization of KYNAMRO. If Genzyme cannot reliably manufacture KYNAMRO drug substance and drug product, KYNAMRO may not achieve or maintain commercial success, which will harm our ability to generate revenue. If we or our partners fail to obtain regulatory approval for our drugs, including additional approvals for KYNAMRO or initial approvals for ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, we or our partners cannot sell them in the applicable markets. We cannot guarantee that any of our drugs, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, will be safe and effective, or will be approved for commercialization. In addition, we cannot guarantee that KYNAMRO will be approved in additional markets outside the United States or for additional indications. We and our partners must conduct time-consuming, extensive and costly clinical studies to show the safety and efficacy of each of our drugs, including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, before they can be approved for sale. We must conduct these studies in compliance with FDA regulations and with comparable regulations in other countries. 62 We and our partners may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all, for any of our drugs. It is possible that other regulatory agencies will not approve KYNAMRO or any of our other drugs including, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx for marketing. If the FDA or another regulatory agency believes that we or our partners have not sufficiently demonstrated the safety or efficacy of any of our drugs, including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, the agency will not approve the specific drug or will require additional studies, which can be time consuming and expensive and which will delay or harm commercialization of the drug. For example, in March 2013 the CHMP of the European Medicines Agency maintained a negative opinion for Genzyme's marketing authorization application for KYNAMRO as a treatment for patients with HoFH. Failure to receive marketing approval for our drugs, including KYNAMRO outside the United States or initial approvals for ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, or delays in these approvals could prevent or delay commercial introduction of the drug, and, as a result, could negatively impact our ability to generate revenue from product sales. If the results of clinical testing indicate that any of our drugs are not suitable for commercial use we may need to abandon one or more of our drug development programs. Drug discovery and development has inherent risks and the historical failure rate for drugs is high. Antisense drugs are a relatively new approach to therapeutics. If we cannot demonstrate that our drugs are safe and effective for human use, we may need to abandon one or more of our drug development programs. There are ongoing clinical studies for KYNAMRO and sales to patients, adverse events from which could negatively impact our pending or planned marketing approval applications and commercialization of KYNAMRO. In the past, we have invested in clinical studies of drugs that have not met the primary clinical end points in their Phase 3 studies. Similar results could occur in any additional clinical studies for KYNAMRO and in clinical studies for our other drugs, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. If any of our drugs in clinical studies, including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, do not show sufficient efficacy in patients with the targeted indication, it could negatively impact our development and commercialization goals for the drug and our stock price could decline. Even if our drugs are successful in preclinical and human clinical studies, the drugs may not be successful in late-stage clinical studies. Successful results in preclinical or initial human clinical studies, including the Phase 3 results for KYNAMRO and the Phase 2 results for some of our other drugs in development, may not predict the results of subsequent clinical studies, including subsequent studies of KYNAMRO and the Phase 3 studies for ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. There are a number of factors that could cause a clinical study to fail or be delayed, including: ● the clinical study may produce negative or inconclusive results; ● regulators may require that we hold, suspend or terminate clinical research for noncompliance with regulatory requirements; ● we, our partners, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities could suspend or terminate a clinical study due to adverse side effects of a drug on subjects in the trial; ● we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical studies; ● enrollment in our clinical studies may be slower than we anticipate; ● the cost of our clinical studies may be greater than we anticipate; and ● the supply or quality of our drugs or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical studies may be insufficient, inadequate or delayed. Any failure or delay in the clinical studies, including any further studies under the development program for KYNAMRO and the Phase 3 studies for ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, could reduce the commercial potential or viability of our drugs. 63 If we cannot manufacture our drugs or contract with a third party to manufacture our drugs at costs that allow us to charge competitive prices to buyers, we cannot market our products profitably. To successfully commercialize any of our drugs, we or our partner would need to establish large-scale commercial manufacturing capabilities either on our own or through a third party manufacturer. In addition, as our drug development pipeline increases and matures, we will have a greater need for clinical trial and commercial manufacturing capacity. We have limited experience manufacturing pharmaceutical products of the chemical class represented by our drugs, called oligonucleotides, on a commercial scale for the systemic administration of a drug. There are a small number of suppliers for certain capital equipment and raw materials that we use to manufacture our drugs, and some of these suppliers will need to increase their scale of production to meet our projected needs for commercial manufacturing. Further, we must continue to improve our manufacturing processes to allow us to reduce our drug costs. We may not be able to manufacture our drugs at a cost or in quantities necessary to make commercially successful products. Also, manufacturers, including us, must adhere to the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations and similar regulations in foreign countries, which the applicable regulatory authorities enforce through facilities inspection programs. We and our contract manufacturers may not comply or maintain compliance with Good Manufacturing Practices, or similar foreign regulations. Non-compliance could significantly delay or prevent receipt of marketing approval for our drugs, including additional approvals for KYNAMRO, and initial approvals for ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, or result in enforcement action after approval that could limit the commercial success of our drugs, including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. We depend on third parties to conduct our clinical studies for our drugs and any failure of those parties to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect our development and commercialization plans. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers to conduct our clinical studies for our drugs and expect to continue to do so in the future. For example, we use clinical research organizations, such as Icon Clinical Research Limited, INC Research Toronto, Inc. and Medpace for the clinical studies for our drugs, including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. We rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical studies, but do not control many aspects of their activities. For example, the investigators are not our employees. However, we are responsible for ensuring that these third parties conduct each of our clinical studies in accordance with the general investigational plan and approved protocols for the study. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical studies in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations or a termination of our relationship with these third parties could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our drugs, including any expanded product label for KYNAMRO and initial approvals for ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. Risks Associated with our Businesses as a Whole We have incurred losses, and our business will suffer if we fail to consistently achieve profitability in the future. Because drug discovery and development requires substantial lead-time and money prior to commercialization, our expenses have generally exceeded our revenue since we were founded in January 1989. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.0 billion and stockholders' equity of approximately $257.8 million. Most of the losses resulted from costs incurred in connection with our research and development programs and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. Most of our revenue has come from collaborative arrangements, with additional revenue from research grants and the sale or licensing of our patents, as well as interest income. We may incur additional operating losses over the next several years, and these losses may increase if we cannot increase or sustain revenue. We may not successfully develop any additional products or achieve or sustain future profitability. 64 Since corporate partnering is a key part of our strategy to fund the development and commercialization of our development programs, if any of our collaborative partners fail to fund our collaborative programs, or if we cannot obtain additional partners, we may have to delay or stop progress on our drug development programs. To date, corporate partnering has played a key role in our strategy to fund our development programs and to add key development resources. We plan to continue to rely on additional collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our unpartnered drugs. However, we may not be able to negotiate favorable collaborative arrangements for these drug programs. If we cannot continue to secure additional collaborative partners, our revenues could decrease and the development of our drugs could suffer. Our corporate partners are developing and/or funding many of the drugs in our development pipeline. If any of these pharmaceutical companies stops developing and/or funding these drugs, our business could suffer and we may not have, or be willing to dedicate, the resources available to develop these drugs on our own. Our collaborators can terminate their relationships with us under certain circumstances, many of which are outside of our control. In the past, based on the disappointing results of Phase 3 clinical studies, we had a partner discontinue its investment in one of our drugs. Even with funding from corporate partners, if our partners do not effectively perform their obligations under our agreements with them, it would delay or stop the progress of our drug development programs. In addition to receiving funding, we enter into collaborative arrangements with third parties to: ● conduct clinical studies; ● seek and obtain regulatory approvals; and ● manufacture, market and sell our drugs. Once we have secured a collaborative arrangement to further develop and commercialize one of our drug development programs, such as our collaborations with AstraZeneca, Biogen Idec, Genzyme, GSK, and Roche these collaborations may not continue or result in commercialized drugs, or may not progress as quickly as we first anticipated. For example, a collaborator such as AstraZeneca, Biogen Idec, Genzyme, GSK, or Roche, could determine that it is in its financial interest to: ● pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products that may be competitive with the drug that is part of the collaboration with us; ● pursue higher-priority programs or change the focus of its own development programs; or ● choose to devote fewer resources to our drugs than it does for its own drugs. If any of these occur, it could affect our partner's commitment to the collaboration with us and could delay or otherwise negatively affect the commercialization of our drugs, including KYNAMRO, ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. If we do not progress in our programs as anticipated, the price of our securities could decrease. For planning purposes, we estimate and may disclose the timing of a variety of clinical, regulatory and other milestones, such as when we anticipate a certain drug will enter the clinic, when we anticipate completing a clinical study, or when we anticipate filing an application for marketing approval. We base our estimates on present facts and a variety of assumptions. Many underlying assumptions are outside of our control. If we do not achieve milestones in accordance with our or our investors' expectations, including milestones for additional approvals or sales expectations of KYNAMRO or milestones related to the Phase 3 programs for ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, the price of our securities could decrease. 65 For example, in March 2013 the CHMP of the European Medicines Agency maintained a negative opinion for Genzyme's marketing authorization application for KYNAMRO as a treatment for patients with HoFH. If we cannot protect our patents or our other proprietary rights, others may compete more effectively against us. Our success depends to a significant degree upon whether we can continue to develop and secure intellectual property rights to proprietary products and services. However, we may not receive issued patents on any of our pending patent applications in the United States or in other countries. In addition, the scope of any of our issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to provide us with a competitive advantage. Furthermore, our issued patents or patents licensed to us may be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier or revenue source. Intellectual property litigation could be expensive and prevent us from pursuing our programs. From time to time we have to defend our intellectual property rights. In the event of an intellectual property dispute, we sometimes need to litigate to defend our rights or assert them against others. Disputes can involve arbitration, litigation or proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or the International Trade Commission or foreign patent authorities. Intellectual property litigation can be extremely expensive, and this expense, as well as the consequences should we not prevail, could seriously harm our business. For example, in September 2011 we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Santaris Pharma A/S and Santaris Pharma A/S Corp. in the United States District Court of the Southern District of California, and in November 2013 we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Gilead Sciences Inc. in the United States District Court of the Northern District of California. These lawsuits may be costly and may not be resolved in our favor. If a third party claims that our drugs or technology infringe its patents or other intellectual property rights, we may have to discontinue an important product or product line, alter our products and processes, pay license fees or cease certain activities. We may not be able to obtain a license to needed intellectual property on favorable terms, if at all. There are many patents issued or applied for in the biotechnology industry, and we may not be aware of patents or patent applications held by others that relate to our business. This is especially true since patent applications in the United States are filed confidentially for the first 18 months. Moreover, the validity and breadth of biotechnology patents involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal issues remain. If we fail to obtain timely funding, we may need to curtail or abandon some of our programs. Many of our drugs are undergoing clinical studies or are in the early stages of research and development. All of our drug programs will require significant additional research, development, preclinical and/or clinical testing, regulatory approval and/or commitment of significant additional resources prior to their successful commercialization. As of December 31, 2014, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments equal to $728.8 million. If we do not meet our goals to successfully commercialize KYNAMRO and our other drugs, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx, or to license our drugs and proprietary technologies, we will need additional funding in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, such as the following: ● additional marketing approvals and successful commercial launch of KYNAMRO; ● changes in existing collaborative relationships and our ability to establish and maintain additional collaborative arrangements; ● continued scientific progress in our research, drug discovery and development programs; ● the size of our programs and progress with preclinical and clinical studies; ● the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; ● competing technological and market developments, including the introduction by others of new therapies that address our markets; and ● the profile and launch timing of our drugs, including ISIS-APOCIIIRx, ISIS-SMNRx and ISIS-TTRRx. 66 If we need additional funds, we may need to raise them through public or private financing. Additional financing may not be available at all or on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the shares of existing stockholders will be diluted and the price, as well as the price of our other securities, may decline. If adequate funds are not available or not available on acceptable terms, we may have to cut back on one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs. For example, in January 2005 we terminated the development of two lower priority drugs, ISIS 14803 and ISIS 104838. Alternatively, we may obtain funds through arrangements with collaborative partners or others, which could require us to give up rights to certain of our technologies or drugs. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, could make it more difficult to run our business and reduce our likelihood of success. We are dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers that would prevent them from leaving us. The loss of our management and key scientific employees might slow the achievement of important research and development goals. It is also critical to our success that we recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work. We may not be able to attract and retain skilled and experienced scientific personnel on acceptable terms because of intense competition for experienced scientists among many pharmaceutical and health care companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. In addition, failure to succeed in clinical studies may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified scientific personnel. If the price of our securities continues to be highly volatile, this could make it harder for you to liquidate your investment and could increase your risk of suffering a loss. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many other biopharmaceutical companies, has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. These fluctuations in our common stock price may significantly affect the trading price of our securities. During the 12 months preceding December 31, 2014, the market price of our common stock ranged from $22.25 to $67.12 per share. Many factors can affect the market price of our securities, including, for example, fluctuations in our operating results, announcements of collaborations, clinical study results, technological innovations or new products being developed by us or our competitors, governmental regulation, regulatory approval, changes in payors' reimbursement policies, developments in patent or other proprietary rights, public concern regarding the safety of our drugs and general market conditions. We are exposed to potential product liability claims, and insurance against these claims may not be available to us at a reasonable rate in the future or at all. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of therapeutic products, including potential product liability claims related to KYNAMRO. We have clinical study insurance coverage and commercial product liability insurance coverage. However, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims against us, or be available to us at an acceptable cost, if at all. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, products liability claims may result in decreased demand for our drug products, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical study volunteers and loss of revenues. Thus, whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. Because we use biological materials, hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds, if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds that could be hazardous to human health and safety or the environment. We store these materials and various wastes resulting from their use at our facilities in Carlsbad, California pending ultimate use and disposal. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause: 67 ● interruption of our research, development and manufacturing efforts; ● injury to our employees and others; ● environmental damage resulting in costly clean up; and ● liabilities under federal, state and local laws and regulations governing health and human safety, as well as the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and resultant waste products. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. Although we carry insurance in amounts and types that we consider commercially reasonable, we do not have insurance coverage for losses relating to an interruption of our research, development or manufacturing efforts caused by contamination, and the coverage or coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate. If our losses exceed our insurance coverage, our financial condition would be adversely affected. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our research, development or manufacturing facilities or otherwise affects our business, it could delay our progress developing and commercializing our drugs. We manufacture our research and clinical supplies in a manufacturing facility located in Carlsbad, California. The facilities and the equipment we use to research, develop and manufacture our drugs would be costly to replace and could require substantial lead time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be harmed by natural or man-made disasters, including, without limitation, earthquakes, floods, fires and acts of terrorism; and if our facilities are affected by a disaster, our development and commercialization efforts would be delayed. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our development and commercialization activities could be harmed or delayed by a shutdown of the U.S. government including the FDA. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, other agreements and Delaware law may prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. Our certificate of incorporation provides for classified terms for the members of our board of directors. Our certificate also includes a provision that requires at least 66 2/3 percent of our voting stockholders to approve a merger or certain other business transactions with, or proposed by, any holder of 15 percent or more of our voting stock, except in cases where certain directors approve the transaction or certain minimum price criteria and other procedural requirements are met. Our certificate of incorporation also requires that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be taken at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be taken by written consent. In addition, only our board of directors, chairman of the board or chief executive officer can call special meetings of our stockholders. We have in the past, and may in the future, implement a stockholders' rights plan, also called a poison pill, which could make it uneconomical for a third party to acquire our company on a hostile basis. In addition, our board of directors has the authority to fix the rights and preferences of, and issue shares of preferred stock, which may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company without action by our stockholders. The provisions of our convertible senior notes could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a fundamental change, holders of the notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all of their notes or a portion of their notes, which may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market prices. In addition, our collaboration agreement with Genzyme regarding KYNAMRO provides that if we are acquired, Genzyme may elect to purchase all of our rights to receive payments under the KYNAMRO collaboration agreement for a purchase price to be mutually agreed to by us and Genzyme, or, if we cannot agree, a fair market value price determined by an independent investment banking firm. This provision may make it more difficult or complicated for us to enter into an acquisition agreement with a potential acquirer. 68 These provisions, as well as Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and other of our agreements, may discourage certain types of transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices, and may limit the ability of our stockholders to approve transactions that they think may be in their best interests. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect trading prices of our securities. For example, we may issue approximately 11.2 million shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes. The addition of any of these shares into the public market may have an adverse effect on the price of our securities. Our business is subject to changing regulations for corporate governance and public disclosure that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Each year we are required to evaluate our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on and our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to attest to, our internal controls as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, we continue to incur additional expenses and divert our management's time to comply with these regulations. In addition, if we cannot continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, or The Nasdaq Global Market. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. The SEC and other regulators have continued to adopt new rules and regulations and make additional changes to existing regulations that require our compliance. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt, or where the SEC has adopted, additional rules and regulations in these areas such as "say on pay" and proxy access. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact the manner in which we operate our business. Negative conditions in the global credit markets and financial services and other industries may adversely affect our business. The global credit markets, the financial services industry, the U.S. capital markets, and the U.S. economy as a whole have in the past experienced periods of substantial turmoil and uncertainty characterized by unprecedented intervention by the U.S. federal government and the failure, bankruptcy, or sale of various financial and other institutions. It is possible that a crisis in the global credit markets, the U.S. capital markets, the financial services industry or the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, vendors and prospects as well as our liquidity and financial condition. More specifically, our insurance carriers and insurance policies covering all aspects of our business may become financially unstable or may not be sufficient to cover any or all of our losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 69 