Risk Factors Forward Looking Information This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. Statements preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words “believes”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “estimates”, “plans”, “forecasts”, “is likely to”, “projected” and similar expressions or future conditional verbs such as “should”, “would”, “may”, and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements in this section, and in the sections entitled “Business,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this Annual Report regarding, among other things, uncertainties relating to our technology; history of operating losses and anticipation of future losses; uncertainty of product development; uncertainty relating to competitive products, need for additional capital and uncertainty of change; uncertainty of patent and proprietary rights; management of growth, and risks of acquiring new technologies; uncertainties related to clinical trials; government regulation and uncertainty of obtaining regulatory approval; dependence on research collaborators and scientific advisors; uncertainty of health care reform measures and third-party reimbursement and risk of product liability. All forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we do not assume any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are the factors detailed below. Accordingly, in addition to the other information in this Annual Report, the following factors should be considered carefully. References to our products, business, financial results or financial condition should be considered to refer to us and our subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Successful development of our products is uncertain. Based on public disclosures, as of February 1, 2007, regulatory applications, including INDs, have been submitted to the FDA or comparable foreign authorities, for over 30 product candidates derived from our UltiMAb® platform. Neither we nor our partners have any product candidates employing our human antibody technology that have been approved for sale by the FDA or comparable foreign authorities and/or commercialized. Product candidates employing our human antibody technology have not advanced and may not advance beyond clinical development and may not demonstrate clinical safety and effectiveness. Our development of current and future product candidates is subject to the risks of failure and delay inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies. These risks include, but are not limited to: · delays in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; · slower than expected patient enrollment; · unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing or manufacturing; · failure in clinical trials; · failure to receive regulatory approvals; · emergence of superior or equivalent products; · inability to manufacture on our own, or through others, product candidates on a commercial scale; 30 · inability to market products due to third-party proprietary rights; · election by our partners not to pursue product development; · failure by our partners to develop products successfully; · failure to receive adequate coverage and reimbursement for our products from health care payors; · changes in legal and regulatory requirements; and · failure to achieve market acceptance. In certain instances, we have experienced delays in our product development and clinical testing as a result of slower than anticipated patient recruitment. In a number of instances, we have terminated the development of certain products in the early stages of human clinical testing due to a lack of effectiveness. Because of these risks, our research and development efforts or those of our partners may not result in any commercially viable products. If a significant portion of these development efforts are not successfully completed, required regulatory approvals are not obtained or any approved products are not commercially successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Our revenue and profit potential are unproven. No revenues have been generated from the commercial sale of our products and our products may not generate commercial revenues in the future. Because we and our partners have not begun commercial sales of our products, our revenue and profit potential are unproven, which makes it difficult for an investor to evaluate our business and prospects. Our technology may not result in any meaningful benefits to our current or potential partners. No revenues have been generated from the commercial sale of our products, and our products may not generate revenues in the future. Our business and prospects should be considered in light of the heightened risks and unexpected expenses and problems we may face as a company in a rapidly evolving biopharmaceutical industry. We have incurred large operating losses, and we anticipate that these losses will continue. We have incurred large operating losses, and we anticipate that these losses will continue for the foreseeable future. In particular, as of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $963.7 million. Our net losses were $181.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Our losses have resulted principally from: · research and development costs relating to the development of our technology and antibody product candidates; · costs associated with the establishment of our laboratory and manufacturing facilities and manufacturing of products; and · general and administrative costs relating to our operations. We intend to continue to make significant investments in: · research and development; · preclinical testing and clinical trials; · manufacturing clinical supplies of our antibody products; · establishing new collaborations; and · new technologies. 31 In addition, we may be obligated to make milestone payments with respect to certain of our products as they progress through the clinical trial process. We do not know when or if we or our partners will complete any pending or future product development efforts, receive regulatory approval or successfully commercialize any approved products. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even if our revenues increase. As a result, we cannot predict the extent of future losses or the time required for us to achieve profitability, if at all. Our operating results may vary significantly from period-to-period, which may result in a decrease in the price of our securities. Our future revenues and operating results are expected to vary significantly from period-to-period due to a number of factors. Many of these factors are outside of our control. These factors include: · the timing of the commencement, completion or termination of partnership agreements; · the introduction of new products and services by us, our partners or our competitors; · delays in, or termination of, preclinical testing and clinical trials; · changes in regulatory requirements for clinical trials; · costs and expenses associated with preclinical testing and clinical trials; · the timing of regulatory approvals, if any; · sales and marketing expenses; and · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business operations and facilities. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. It is possible that in some future periods, our operating results may be below expectations of analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our securities may decrease. We are subject to an informal inquiry by the SEC and a grand jury investigation by the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey, relating to our stock option granting practices, and such governmental inquiry and investigation may result in charges filed against us and in fines or penalties. The SEC is conducting an informal inquiry into our historical stock option granting practices and related accounting and disclosures. In addition, the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of New Jersey is conducting a grand jury investigation relating to the same matters. The governmental inquiry and investigation relate to the same facts underlying the investigation (the “Investigation”) conducted by a special investigation committee of our independent directors relating to our stock option grant practices from 1996 through June 30, 2006. Based upon the information obtained in the Investigation, through July 2002, we had a practice, in many instances, of selecting dates for our stock option grants and restricted stock grants as of the date when the stock price was the lowest during the month of grant, without disclosing this practice in our public filings and without properly measuring the compensation expense on a date that the terms of the equity awards were finalized. Subsequent to July 2002, while this practice of selecting dates ceased by us in response to new legal and regulatory reporting requirements, there were two annual equity grants for rank and file employees for which the measurement dates differed from the grant dates recorded in our books and records, which the Investigation revealed were primarily a result of administrative delays, with no apparent intent to achieve favorable exercise prices. Based on the results of the Investigation, we restated our financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Criminal or civil charges could be filed against us and we could be required to pay significant fines or penalties in connection with either or both of the governmental inquiry and investigation or other 32 governmental investigations. We have incurred, and continue to incur, substantial costs related to the governmental inquiry and investigation and they continue to cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any criminal or civil charges by the SEC or the U.S. Attorney’s Office or other governmental agency or any fines or penalties imposed by either the SEC or the U.S. Attorney’s Office could materially harm our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We have civil litigation pending that relates to our stock option granting practices, and we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this litigation. In June 2006, two derivative actions were filed in New Jersey state court by shareholders purporting to act on behalf of Medarex, naming Medarex as a nominal defendant and certain current and former directors as defendants. In November 2006 and January 2007, three additional derivative complaints were filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, containing nearly identical factual allegations concerning Medarex’s historical stock option granting practices. The complaints allege, among other things, that certain of Medarex’s officers and directors breached their fiduciary duties to the Company and violated federal securities laws in connection with public statements made in SEC filings relating to the Company’s historical stock option granting practices and related accounting. The complaints seek unspecified damages and equitable relief. These actions are in their preliminary stages. We could be required to pay significant legal fees and damages in connection with this litigation. We are subject to the risks of additional lawsuits and regulatory actions in connection with our historical stock option practices, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. In addition to the possibilities that there may be additional governmental actions and shareholder lawsuits against us, we may be sued or taken to arbitration by former officers or employees in connection with their stock options or other matters. These governmental actions, lawsuits and arbitrations may be time consuming and expensive, and cause further distraction from the operation of our business. The adverse resolution of any specific action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are at risk for additional tax liabilities. In connection with the Investigation, we evaluated the related tax issues to determine if we may be subject to additional tax liabilities. Due to revision of measurement dates for certain stock option grants, certain stock options that were previously treated as incentive stock options may not actually qualify for such treatment and may be treated as non-statutory stock options. As a result, we may be subject to fines or penalties relating to the tax treatment of such stock options. It is possible that additional tax liabilities exist arising out of our past stock option granting practices, and the amount of such additional tax liabilities could be material. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. The risk is especially relevant for us because biotechnology companies have experienced greater than average price volatility in recent years and because we are currently subject to an SEC inquiry and a grand jury investigation relating to our historical stock option granting practices. If we faced such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our business. We may need substantial additional funding. We may not be able to obtain sufficient funds to grow our business or continue our operations. We will continue to expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with developing our antibody technology and conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials. Our future capital requirements will depend on a number of factors, including, for example: · the size and complexity of research and development programs; 33 · the scope and results of preclinical testing and clinical trials; · the retention of existing and establishment of further partnerships, if any; · continued scientific progress in our research and development programs; · the time and expense involved in seeking regulatory approvals; · competing technological and market developments; · the time and expense of filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing patent claims; and · the cost of establishing commercial scale manufacturing capabilities, conducting commercialization activities and arrangements and in-licensing products. We believe our current sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our operating, debt service and capital requirements for at least the next 24 months. To the extent our 2.25% convertible senior notes due in 2011 are converted into shares of our common stock on or before their maturity date, we will have use of that portion of the principal amount of the notes to fund our on-going operations. In any event, we may require additional financing within this time frame and may raise funds through public or private financings, line of credit arrangements, collaborative relationships, sale of assets, and/or other methods. The use of cash on hand or other financial alternatives will depend on several factors including, but not limited to, the future success of our products in clinical development, the prevailing interest rate environment and access to the capital markets. We may be unable to raise sufficient funds to complete development of any of our product candidates, to continue operations or to repay our debt obligations at maturity. As a result, we may face delay, reduction or elimination of research and development programs or preclinical or clinical trials, in which case our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially harmed. We have a significant amount of debt and may have insufficient cash to satisfy our debt service obligations. In addition, the amount of our debt could impede our operations and flexibility. We have $150.0 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.25% convertible senior notes outstanding, which, unless converted to shares of our common stock or redeemed, will mature in 2011. Generally, during the last five years, our operating cash flows were negative and insufficient to cover our fixed charges. Our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to service our indebtedness, including the notes, and fund our operating requirements will depend on our ability, alone or with others, to successfully develop, manufacture, and obtain required regulatory approvals and market our product candidates, as well as other factors, including general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions, some of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow to service our indebtedness and fund our operating requirements, we may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to do so, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, if new indebtedness is incurred, the risks relating to our ability to service our indebtedness that we face could intensify. Even if we are able to meet our debt service obligations, the amount of debt we have could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including by: · limiting our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors who have lower levels of debt; · making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, instead of applying those funds to other purposes such as working capital and capital expenditures. 34 Clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. To obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we or our partners must demonstrate proof of safety and efficacy in humans. To meet these requirements, we or our partners will have to conduct extensive preclinical testing and “adequate and well-controlled” clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time-consuming and expensive process. The length of time may vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Delays associated with products for which we are directly conducting preclinical or clinical trials may cause us to incur additional operating expenses. Moreover, we will continue to be affected by delays associated with the preclinical testing and clinical trials of certain product candidates conducted by our partners over which we have no control. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including, for example: · the inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of qualified materials under cGMPs for use in clinical trials; · the need or desire to modify our manufacturing processes; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · modification of clinical trial protocols; · the inability to adequately observe patients after treatment; · changes in regulatory requirements for clinical trials; · the lack of effectiveness during the clinical trials; · unforeseen safety issues; · delays, suspension or termination of the clinical trials due to the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site, or for some studies due to the data safety monitoring committee charged with overseeing the study as a whole; and · government or regulatory delays or “clinical holds” requiring suspension or termination of the trials. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient safety and effectiveness to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our product candidates. In a number of instances, we have terminated the development of certain products in the early stages of human clinical testing due to a lack of effectiveness. Generally, our clinical trials, including our melanoma trials for ipilimumab, are conducted in patients with serious or life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and in some cases, our product is used in combination with approved therapies that themselves have significant adverse event profiles. During the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical events or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. The most common adverse events associated with our trials of ipilimumab have consisted of flu-like symptoms such as fever, chills and nausea. These events were expected and generally responded to standard medical therapy. In addition, some patients have experienced anticipated drug-related immune-mediated events, such as diarrhea, rash, reduced pituitary function, colitis and increased liver enzymes, ranging from mild in most cases to severe in a very small number of instances. Other than a very small number of fatalities not directly related to progression or complications of the disease being treated, representing approximately 1% of over 1,000 patients treated in all previous trials, which may or may not be attributable to our product candidate, most events resolved with treatment. We cannot assure you that additional safety issues will not arise with respect to our products in the future. 35 To date, we have experienced slower than expected rates of patient recruitment in certain of our clinical trials. As a result, in certain instances, we have experienced or may experience delays in our product development and clinical testing. Data obtained from clinical trials of our product candidates to date have been insufficient to demonstrate safety and efficacy under applicable FDA criteria. As a result, such data will not support an application for regulatory approval without further clinical trials. Clinical trials that we conduct or that third parties conduct on our behalf may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. We expect to commence new clinical trials from time to time in the course of our business as our product development work continues. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for our desired indications could harm the development of that product candidate as well as other product candidates. Any change in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Success in early clinical trials may not be indicative of results obtained in later trials. Results of our early clinical trials and those of our partners using our human antibody technology are based on a limited number of patients and may, upon review, be revised or negated by authorities or by later stage clinical results. Historically, the results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials have often not been predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. A number of potential new drugs and biologics have shown promising results in initial clinical trials, but subsequently failed to establish sufficient safety and efficacy data to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, regulatory delays or rejections may be encountered as a result of many factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development. Product candidates employing our antibody technology may fail to gain market acceptance. Even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or our partners using our technology and all regulatory approvals have been obtained, product candidates employing our antibody technology may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, third-party payors and the medical community. For example, the current delivery systems for antibody-based therapeutic products are intravenous and subcutaneous injection, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery. The degree of market acceptance of any product candidates employing our technology will depend on a number of factors, including, for example: · establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety, especially as compared to conventional treatments; · cost-effectiveness; · alternative treatment methods; · reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors; and · marketing and distribution support for our product candidates. In addition, many of our activities involve genetic engineering in animals and animal testing, controversial subjects which have generally received adverse publicity from animal rights activists and various other interest groups. Such adverse publicity could decrease market acceptance of products employing our technology. If products employing our technology do not achieve significant market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. 36 The successful commercialization of our antibody products will depend on obtaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payors. Sales of pharmaceutical products largely depend on the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government health care programs and private health insurers. Without the financial support of the government or third-party payors, the market for products employing our human antibody technology will be limited. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price and examining the cost effectiveness of medical products and services. In addition, significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. We may need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products. Such studies may require us to dedicate a significant amount of resources. Our project candidates may not be considered cost-effective. Third-party payors may not reimburse sales of products employing our human antibody technology, or enable us or our partners to sell them at profitable prices. The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare may impair our future revenues and profitability. The pricing of our future products may be influenced in part by government controls. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement more rigorous provisions relating to government payment levels. While we cannot predict whether the government will adopt any such legislative or regulatory proposals, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our manufacturing facilities may not continue to meet regulatory requirements and may have limited capacity. Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured are in compliance with cGMP requirements. To be successful, our therapeutic products must be manufactured for development and, following approval, in commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements and at acceptable costs. While we believe our current facilities are adequate for the limited production of product candidates for clinical trials, our facilities are not adequate to produce sufficient quantities of any products for commercial sale. If we are unable to establish and maintain a manufacturing facility or secure third-party manufacturing capacity within our planned time and cost parameters, the development and commercialization of our products and our financial performance may be materially harmed. We may also encounter problems with the following: · production yields; · quality control and assurance; · shortages of qualified personnel; · compliance with FDA regulations, including the demonstration of purity and potency; · changes in FDA requirements; · production costs; and/or · development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. 37 We are aware of only a limited number of companies on a worldwide basis that operate manufacturing facilities in which our product candidates can be manufactured under cGMP regulations, a requirement for all pharmaceutical products. We are currently pursuing late-stage clinical and commercial supply agreements with cGMP-compliant third-party manufacturers with available capacity to meet our internal production timetables. We have entered into clinical supply agreements with Lonza with respect to ipilimumab and MDX-060. As part of our collaboration with BMS, we assigned to BMS the clinical supply agreement with respect to ipilimumab. Our partner BMS is responsible for securing commercial supply agreements for ipilimumab and is currently in negotiations with respect to such arrangements. BMS may not be able to successfully consummate such arrangements. We do not currently have the capability to manufacture our product candidates under development in large commercial quantities and have no experience in commercial-scale manufacturing. It would take a substantial period of time for a contract facility that has not been producing antibodies to begin producing antibodies under cGMP regulations. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to contract with such companies for clinical and/or commercial supply on acceptable terms or in a timely manner, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to enter into clinical and/or commercial supply manufacturing arrangements with cGMP-compliant third-party manufacturers, we cannot assure you that such manufacturers will be able to produce products that are substantially equivalent to the product candidates that we have produced in our own facilities and used in our clinical trials. If such companies are not able to produce products that are substantially equivalent to our product candidates, the progress of our clinical trials and/or commercialization of our products may be delayed and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. In addition, we and any third-party manufacturer will be required to register manufacturing facilities with the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The facilities will be subject to inspections confirming compliance with cGMP or other regulations. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers fail to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA or other regulatory authorities can impose regulatory sanctions including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug product or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. The development and commercialization of our lead product candidate, ipilimumab, is, in large part, dependent on the actions of BMS, which are outside of our control. We depend, in part, on our partners to support our business, including the development of products generated through the use of our antibody technology. In particular, under the terms of our collaboration and co-promotion agreement with BMS, we have granted a license to commercialize our lead product candidate, ipilimumab, to BMS for the treatment of all diseases. We have also granted to BMS a sub-license to MDX-1379 for use in combination with ipilimumab for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. The successful development and commercialization of ipilimumab is dependent, in large part, on the actions of BMS, which are outside of our control. The failure of BMS to act in accordance with its obligations under the collaboration and co-promotion agreement or to prioritize or devote sufficient resources to ipilimumab development and commercialization, or a change of control of BMS, may cause us to incur substantial additional costs in order to develop and commercialize ipilimumab, which could materially harm our business. We are, in part, dependent on our partners’ willingness and/or ability to devote resources to the development and commercialization of product candidates or otherwise support our business as contemplated in our partnership agreements. We currently, or in the future may, rely on our partners to: · access proprietary antigens for the development of product candidates; · access skills and information that we do not possess; 38 · fund our research and development activities; · manufacture products; · fund and conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials; · seek and obtain regulatory approvals for product candidates; and/or · commercialize and market future products. Our dependence on our partners subjects us to a number of risks, including: · our partners have significant discretion whether to pursue planned activities; · we cannot control the quantity and nature of the resources our partners may devote to product candidates; · our partners may not develop products generated using our antibody technology as expected; and · business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy may adversely affect that partner’s willingness or ability to continue to pursue these product candidates. If we do not realize the contemplated benefits from our partners, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Our existing partnerships may be terminated, and we may not be able to establish additional partnerships. Our licensing partners generally have the right to terminate our partnerships at any time. Our ability to continue our current partnerships and to enter into additional partnerships is dependent in large part on our ability to successfully demonstrate that our UltiMAb® technology is an attractive method of developing fully human antibody therapeutic products. Existing or potential partners may pursue alternative technologies, including those of our competitors, or enter into other transactions that could make a collaboration with us less attractive to them. For example, if an existing partner purchases or is purchased by a company that is one of our competitors, that company could be less willing to continue its collaboration with us and may, instead, become one of our competitors. In April 2006, Abgenix and Amgen completed a merger, that resulted in Amgen’s ownership of Abgenix’s XenoMouse® technology. As a result, Amgen may be less willing to continue its collaboration with us and may, through the use of its newly acquired XenoMouse® technology, engage in direct competition with us in the area of generating fully human monoclonal antibodies for antibody-based therapeutics. In addition, a company that has a strategy of purchasing companies rather than entering into partnership arrangements might have less incentive to enter into a collaboration agreement with us. Moreover, disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to any technology or products developed with any current or future partner. Lengthy negotiations with potential new partners or disagreements between us and our partners may lead to delays or termination in the research, development or commercialization of product candidates. If we are not able to establish additional partnerships on terms that are favorable to us or if a significant number of our existing partnerships are terminated and we cannot replace them, we may be required to increase our internal product development and commercialization efforts. This would likely: · limit the number of product candidates that we will be able to develop and commercialize; · significantly increase our need for capital; and/or · place additional strain on management’s time. Any of the above may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 39 Due to the size of our equity interest in Celldex Therapeutics, Inc., we must consolidate the results of its operations in our financial statements. We own approximately 60% of Celldex Therapeutics, Inc., a privately held biopharmaceutical company. Due to the size of our equity interest in Celldex, we are currently required to consolidate the operations of Celldex in our financial statements, which results in the inclusion of their losses in our financial statements. We are unable to predict what such losses will be. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our share, net of minority interest, of Celldex’s net loss included in our financial statements was approximately $10.3 million. Our strategic equity investments in our partners expose us to equity price risk and, in addition, investments in our partners may be deemed impaired, which would affect our results of operations. We have a number of strategic investments that expose us to equity price risk. These investments may become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to equity price risk on our strategic investments in our publicly-traded partners, and as part of our business strategy, we may choose to make additional similar investments in public companies in the future. Under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, these investments are designated as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheet. Unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are generally excluded from earnings and reported within other comprehensive income which is a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Under our accounting policy, marketable equity securities are generally considered to be impaired if their fair value is less than our cost basis in such securities for more than six months, or some other period in light of the particular facts and circumstances surrounding the investment. If a decline in the fair value of available-for-sale securities is considered to be other than temporary, the cost basis of the security is written down to fair value as a new cost basis and the amount of the write-down is included in earnings as an impairment charge. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2004, we recorded impairment charges of $5.2 million and $0.2 million on investments in partners whose securities are publicly traded. During the year ended December 31, 2005, no impairment charges were recorded related to the value of our investments in publicly traded companies. If we deem these investments to be further impaired at the end of any future reporting period, we may incur additional impairment charges on these investments. In addition, we have investments in several of our partners whose securities are not publicly traded. The value of our investments in these companies are inherently more difficult to estimate than our investments in publicly traded companies. We estimate the value of these investments by using information acquired from industry trends, management of these companies, financial statements and other external sources. Specifically, our determination of any potential impairment of the value of privately held securities includes an analysis of the following for each company on a periodic basis: review of interim and year-end financial statements, cash position and overall rate of cash used to support operations, the progress and development of technology and product platform, the per share value of subsequent financing and potential strategic alternatives. Based on the information acquired through these sources, we record an investment impairment charge when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is considered to be other than temporary. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we recorded impairment charges of approximately $0, $33.3 million and $7.1 million, respectively, on our investments in privately-held companies. Approximately $7.0 million of the 2004 impairment charge related to IDM Pharma. Approximately $29.3 million of the 2005 impairment charge related to IDM Pharma prior to the share exchange with Epimmune, Inc., at which time IDM Pharma became a publicly traded company. Future adverse changes in market conditions or adverse changes in operating results of these companies may also require an impairment charge in the future. 40 Because competition for qualified personnel is intense, we may not be able to retain or recruit such qualified personnel, which could impact the research, development and commercialization of our products. For us to pursue product development and commercialization plans, we will need to hire additional qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development. We will also need to hire personnel with expertise in clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, sales and marketing, relevant law and finance. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms, given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We have had and may continue to face product liability claims related to the use or misuse of products developed by us or our partners. The administration of drugs to humans, in clinical trials or after approval and during commercialization, may expose us to product liability claims. Consumers, healthcare producers or persons selling products based on our technology may be able to bring claims against us based on the use of our products in clinical trials and the sale of products based on our technology. Product liability claims may be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments against us. We have obtained limited product liability coverage for our clinical trials, under which coverage limits are $20.0 million per occurrence and $20.0 million in the aggregate. Although we believe these coverage limits are adequate, we cannot be certain that the insurance policies will be sufficient to cover all claims that may be made against us. We intend to increase our coverage limits as we progress into additional late-stage clinical trials and to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for products in development. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms. In November 1998, we voluntarily suspended clinical trials for one of our products after some patients experienced serious adverse events, or SAEs. This product did not employ our core fully human antibody technology and we have determined not to pursue further development of this product. As a result of these SAEs, we received a small number of claims, of which five resulted in lawsuits being filed. All of these lawsuits have been settled for insubstantial amounts. We cannot make assurances that additional claims will not be filed against us relating to these SAEs or arising out of any other clinical trial we have conducted or will conduct in the future. Generally, our clinical trials, including our melanoma trials for ipilimumab, are conducted in patients with serious life-threatening diseases for whom conventional treatments have been unsuccessful or for whom no conventional treatment exists, and in some cases, our product is used in combination with approved therapies that themselves have significant adverse event profiles. During the course of treatment, these patients could suffer adverse medical events or die for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. The most common adverse events associated with our melanoma trials of ipilimumab have consisted of flu-like symptoms such as fever, chills and nausea. These events were expected and generally responded to standard medical therapy. In addition, some patients have experienced anticipated drug-related immune-mediated adverse events, such as diarrhea, rash, reduced pituitary function, colitis and increased liver enzymes, ranging from mild in most cases to severe in a very small number of instances. Almost all of these adverse events responded to medical therapy. In a very small number of instances (approximately 1% of over 1,000 patients treated), fatalities not directly related to disease progression or complications have occurred during the course of these trials—such fatalities may or may not be attributable to our product. Any of these events or any other adverse events in any of our other clinical trials could result in a product liability claim. Any such claims against us, regardless of their merit, could 41 result in significant awards against us, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition and rapid technological change. The development of biotechnology and pharmaceutical products is a highly competitive business subject to significant and rapid technological change. We face competition in several different forms. First, our human antibody generation activities currently face competition from several competitors with similar technology to ours as well as distinctly different technologies. Second, the actual products being developed by us or by our partners also face actual and potential competition. Developments by our competitors may render our human antibody technology or our products obsolete or non-competitive. We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that are actively engaged in research and development in areas related to antibody therapeutics. Some of these companies have commenced clinical trials of antibody products or have successfully commercialized antibody products. Many of these companies are addressing the same disease indications as are we and our partners. Also, we compete with companies that offer antibody generation services to other companies that have disease related target antigens. These competitors have specific expertise or technology related to monoclonal antibody development. In the past, we competed directly with Abgenix, which merged with Amgen in April 2006, with respect to the generation of fully human antibodies from transgenic mice. As a result of the merger, Amgen owns Abgenix’s XenoMouse® technology and may engage in direct competition with us in the area of generating fully human monoclonal antibodies for antibody-based therapeutics. In February 2007, Regeneron licensed its VelocImmune® monoclonal antibody generation technology to AstraZeneca, potentially enabling AstraZeneca to compete with us in the generation of therapeutic antibodies. Regeneron may also compete with us directly in the generation of therapeutic antibodies or may enter into additional licenses with other companies. AstraZeneca also has access to antibody generation technologies through its ownership of CAT. In addition, we have entered into agreements with each of Kirin and Genmab, respectively, that grant these companies licenses to our proprietary transgenic mouse technology platform, enabling them to compete with us in offering antibody generation and development services in certain markets. We have also entered into license agreements with Pfizer which enable it to compete with us in the development of antibodies to CTLA-4. Pfizer is developing CP-675,206, a fully human antibody generated by using transgenic mouse technology substantially similar to our HuMAb-Mouse® technology that targets the T-cell receptor CTLA-4. According to publicly available information, a first-line Phase III clinical trial comparing CP-675,206 alone to chemotherapy alone for metastatic melanoma was initiated by Pfizer in March 2006. In addition, CP-675,206 is being explored as a monotherapy treatment for metastatic melanoma. Pfizer has disclosed that it expects to file a Biologics License Application, or BLA, with respect to CP-675,206 in 2007. Xenerex and XTL have developed technologies that, according to Xenerex and XTL, will allow them to generate fully human monoclonal antibodies in functionally modified mice. Numerous additional companies are developing therapeutic products comprising human antibody components. Furthermore, several companies are developing, or have developed, technologies that do not involve immunization of animals for creating antibodies comprising human antibody sequences. XOMA and PDL BioPharma both offer technologies to convert mouse antibodies into antibodies closely resembling human antibodies. For example, phage display technology is being used by companies, such as CAT, Dyax and MorphoSys to generate potentially therapeutic products comprising human antibody sequences. Companies such as Johnson & Johnson, MedImmune, Amgen, Biogen Idec, Novartis, Genentech, PDL BioPharma, Wyeth, Abbott Laboratories and GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market and that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody components. 42 Other technologies can also be applied to the treatment of the diseases that we or our partners are pursuing. For example, immunoconjugates—monoclonal antibodies linked to toxins—are being developed by others, as well as by us, and other companies are developing antibodies linked to radioactive isotopes. In addition, the application of recombinant DNA technology to develop potential products consisting of proteins (such as growth factors, hormones, enzymes, cytokines receptor fragments and fusion proteins) that do not occur normally in the body, or occur only in small amounts, has been under way for some time. Included in this group are interleukins such as IL-2 and IL-11, interferons, colony stimulating factors such as G-CSF and GM-CSF, clotting factors, growth hormones, erythropoeitin, DNAse, tPA, glucocerebrosidase, PDGF and a number of other similar biological agents. Continuing development of new chemical entities and other drugs by pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies carries with it the potential discovery of agents for treating disease indications also targeted by drugs that we or our partners are developing. Some of our competitors have received regulatory approval or are developing or testing product candidates that compete directly with product candidates employing our antibody technology. Many of these companies and institutions, either alone or together with their partners, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we or some of our partners do. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in: · developing products; · undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products; and · manufacturing and commercializing products. Accordingly, our competitors may obtain patent protection, receive FDA approval or commercialize products before we or our partners do. If we or our partners commence commercial product sales, we or our partners will be competing against companies with greater manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities, areas in which we and certain of our partners have limited or no experience. We also face intense competition from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to establish partnerships, as well as relationships with academic and research institutions, and to in-license proprietary technology from these institutions. These competitors, either alone or with their partners, may succeed in developing or licensing technologies or products that are more effective than ours. Seeking orphan drug designation for eligible products is an uncertain process, and we may not receive any effective or competitive results from this competitive strategy. Our competitive strategy includes seeking orphan drug designation for eligible products (i.e., certain products for diseases with small patient populations). The first drug with an orphan drug designation for a given disease to receive regulatory approval for such disease generally receives marketing exclusivity for the use of the drug for such disease for a period of seven years from approval. The orphan drug exclusivity bars others from obtaining approval for the same drug for the designated indication during the seven years, unless the subsequent applicant can demonstrate that its product is clinically superior to the drug with exclusivity or the prior applicant is unable to provide adequate supply to meet medical need. 43 We have obtained orphan drug designation for each of ipilimumab and MDX-1379 for specified metastatic melanoma patient populations, and therefore each is eligible for orphan drug exclusivity if approved first. The FDA’s approach with respect to orphan drug status for antibody products is uncertain, particularly with respect to whether two antibody products against the same disease target would be considered to be the same for orphan drug purposes under current law and regulations. Furthermore, we are not aware of established FDA policies or precedent for how orphan drug exclusivity applies in circumstances where two or more compounds with orphan drug designations are approved for combination therapy. The FDA may not grant us exclusivity for the ipilimumab and MDX-1379 combination therapy, or may permit others to receive approval for differing combinations of similar compounds despite any orphan drug exclusivity we receive for different uses or for treating metastatic melanoma, depending on FDA’s assessment of the chemical similarity of the other drugs to our products. Orphan drug exclusivity also does not prevent FDA from permitting others to market the same compound for different uses than the orphan use. We therefore may not receive any meaningful protection for ipilimumab, MDX-1379 or our other products based on orphan drug exclusivity. In addition, Pfizer has obtained orphan drug designation for CP-675,206 for specific patient populations, including metastatic melanoma. If Pfizer is first to receive approval by the FDA for such patient populations, and CP-675,206 and ipilimumab are considered to be the “same” drug for orphan exclusivity purposes, Pfizer could obtain exclusivity that would potentially block us and our partner BMS from obtaining approval to sell ipilimumab, whether as a monotherapy or combination therapy, for such patient populations, including metastatic melanoma. We are subject to extensive and costly government regulation. Product candidates employing our human antibody technology are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic government regulation including regulation by the FDA, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, other divisions of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the U.S. Department of Justice, state and local governments and their respective foreign equivalents. The FDA regulates the research, development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, record-keeping, reporting, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, import, and export of biopharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates human antibodies as biologics, subject to a BLA, under the Public Health Service Act, as amended. If products employing our human antibody technology are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments, whether or not we have obtained FDA approval for a given product and its uses. Such foreign regulation may be equally or more demanding than corresponding U.S. regulation. Government regulation substantially increases the cost and risk of researching, developing, manufacturing, and selling our products. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical testing and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We or our partners must obtain and maintain regulatory authorization to conduct clinical trials. We or our partners must obtain regulatory approval for each product we intend to market, and the manufacturing facilities used for the products must be inspected and meet legal requirements. Securing regulatory approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and other supporting information for each proposed therapeutic indication in order to establish the product’s safety, efficacy, potency and purity for each intended use. The development and approval process takes many years, requires substantial resources, and may never lead to the approval of a product. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals, or delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may: · adversely affect the successful commercialization of any drugs that we or our partners develop; · impose additional costs on us or our partners; · diminish any competitive advantages that we or our partners may attain; and 44 · adversely affect our receipt of revenues or royalties. Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval for a particular product, the approval may limit the indicated medical uses for the product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell, and distribute the product, may require that we conduct costly post-marketing surveillance, and/or may require that we conduct ongoing post-marketing studies. Material changes to an approved product, such as, for example, manufacturing changes or revised labeling, may require further regulatory review and approval. Once obtained, any approvals may be withdrawn, including, for example, if there is a later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, such as a previously unknown safety issue. If we, our partners or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, such noncompliance could result in, among other things: · delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications; · refusal of a regulatory authority, including the FDA, to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications; · warning letters; · fines; · import and/or export restrictions; · product recalls or seizures; · injunctions; · total or partial suspension of production; · civil penalties; · withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications or licenses; · recommendations by the FDA or other regulatory authorities against governmental contracts; and · criminal prosecutions. In certain cases, we expect to rely on our partners to file INDs with the FDA and to direct the regulatory approval process for products employing our human antibody technology. Our partners may not be able to conduct clinical testing or obtain necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for their product candidates employing our human antibody technology. If they fail to obtain required governmental approvals, our partners will be delayed or precluded from marketing these products. As a result, commercial use of products employing our technology will not occur and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We do not have, and may never obtain, the regulatory approvals we need to market our product candidates. Following completion of clinical trials, the results are evaluated and, depending on the outcome, submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA or NDA, to obtain FDA approval of the product and authorization to commence commercial marketing. In responding to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may require additional testing or information, may require that the product labeling be modified, may impose post-approval study or reporting requirements or other restrictions on product distribution, or may deny the application. The FDA has established performance goals for review of NDAs and BLAs—six months for priority applications and 10 months for standard application. However, the FDA is not required to complete its review within these time periods. The timing of final FDA review and action varies greatly, 45 but can take years in some cases and often involves the input of an FDA advisory committee of outside experts. Product sales in the U.S. may commence only when a BLA or NDA is approved. To date, we have not applied for or received the regulatory approvals required for the commercial sale of any of our products in the U.S. or in any foreign jurisdiction. None of our product candidates has been determined to be safe and effective. We have only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to obtain regulatory approval. It is possible that none of our product candidates will be approved for marketing. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in preclinical development or in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: · the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results; · the product candidate was not effective in treating the specified disease or condition; · the product candidate had harmful side effects on humans or presented unacceptable safety risks; · the governing regulatory authorities (such as the FDA) denied approval to the product candidate altogether or denied a commercially important indicated use; · the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture; and/or · the product candidate was not cost effective in light of alternative therapies. We cannot guarantee that we will ever be able to produce commercially successful products. If we or our manufacturing partners do not comply with current good manufacturing practices requirements, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We will depend on our own manufacturing facilities and/or on those of our partners and other third parties to manufacture products generated through the use of our human antibody technology if we are able to commercialize any of our product candidates. Before commercializing a new drug, manufacturers must demonstrate compliance with the applicable cGMP requirements which include quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the maintenance of extensive records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding foreign and state authorities, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed before they can be used in commercial manufacturing for products generated through the use of our technology. In addition, cGMP requirements are constantly evolving, and new or different requirements may apply in the future. We, our partners or third party contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with the applicable regulations. After regulatory approvals are obtained, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems, or the failure to maintain compliance with existing or new regulatory requirements may result in restrictions on the marketing of a product, withdrawal of the product from the market, seizures, costly required corrective and preventative actions, the shutdown of manufacturing facilities, injunctions, monetary fines and/or civil or criminal sanctions. Even if approved, our products will be subject to extensive post-approval regulation. Once a product is approved, numerous post-approval requirements apply. Among other things, the holder of an approved BLA or NDA is subject to periodic and other FDA monitoring and reporting obligations, including obligations to monitor and report adverse events and instances of the failure of a product to meet the specifications in the BLA or NDA. Application holders must submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product 46 labeling or manufacturing process. Application holders must also submit advertising and other promotional material to the FDA and report on ongoing clinical trials. Advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA rules in addition to other potentially applicable federal and state laws. The distribution of product samples to physicians must comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act. Manufacturing facilities remain subject to FDA inspection and must continue to adhere to FDA’s cGMP requirements. Sales, marketing, and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act and similar state laws, each as amended. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veteran’s Health Care Act of 1992, each as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these post-approval requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines or other penalties, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response, and could generate negative publicity. In addition, even if we comply with FDA and other requirements, new information regarding the safety or effectiveness of a product could lead the FDA to modify or withdraw a product approval. New legal and regulatory requirements could make it more difficult for us to obtain approvals for our product candidates, and could limit or make more burdensome our ability to commercialize any approved products. Numerous proposals have been made in recent months and years to impose new requirements on drug approvals, expand post-approval requirements, and restrict sales and promotional activities. For example, federal legislation has been proposed that would require all new drug applicants to submit risk evaluation and minimization plans to monitor and address potential safety issues for products upon approval, grant FDA the authority to impose risk management measures for marketed products and to mandate labeling changes in certain circumstances, and establish new requirements for disclosing the results of clinical trials. Additional measures have also been proposed to address perceived shortcomings in FDA’s handling of drug safety issues, and to limit pharmaceutical company sales and promotional practices that may be viewed as excessive or improper. If these or other legal or regulatory changes are enacted, it may become more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain approval of our product candidates, any approvals we receive may be more restrictive or be subject to onerous post-approval requirements, our or our partners’ ability to commercialize approved products successfully may be hindered, and our business may be harmed as a result. Numerous proposals have been made in recent months and years to change, in response to drug safety and risk management, clinical trial disclosure and place limits on advertising and promotion. If we are able to obtain approvals for our products, we could face competition from “generic” or “follow-on” versions of our products. Under current U.S. law and FDA policy, generic versions of conventional chemical drug compounds, sometimes referred to as small molecule compounds, may be approved through an abbreviated approval process. In general terms, the generic applicant references an approved innovator product for which full clinical data demonstrating safety and effectiveness exist for the approved conditions of use. The generic 47 applicant in turn need only demonstrate that its product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use (labeling) as the referenced innovator drug, and that the generic product is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as the referenced innovator drug (this is known as bioequivalence). In addition, the generic application must contain information regarding the manufacturing processes and facilities that will be used to ensure product quality, and must contain certifications to patents listed with the FDA for the referenced innovator drug. There is no such abbreviated approval process under current law for biological products approved under the Public Health Service Act through a BLA, such as monoclonal antibodies, cytokines, growth factors, enzymes, interferons and certain other proteins. However, various proposals have been made to establish an abbreviated approval process to permit approval of generic or follow-on versions of certain types of biological products, including, for example, insulin. The proposals include proposals for legislation, and proposals for FDA to extend its existing authority to this area. If the law is changed or if FDA somehow extends its existing authority in new ways, and third parties are permitted to obtain approvals of versions of our products through an abbreviated approval mechanism, and without conducting full clinical studies of their own, it could materially harm our business. Such products would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market, and could lead to the existence of multiple lower priced competitive products. This would substantially limit our ability to obtain a return on the investments we have made in those products. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, and complying with these may cause us to incur significant costs. We are subject to laws and regulations enforced by certain federal, state, local and foreign health and environmental authorities and other regulatory statutes including: · the Occupational Safety and Health Act; · the Environmental Protection Act; · the Toxic Substances Control Act; · the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; · the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; and · other current and potential federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations. In particular, with respect to environmental laws, product development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, and we may incur significant costs as a result of the need to comply with these laws. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, foreign, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury, by accident or as the result of intentional acts of terrorism, from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any resulting liability could exceed our resources. We may also be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. 48 Risks Related to Intellectual Property We depend on patents and proprietary rights. Our success depends in part on our ability to: · apply for, obtain, protect and enforce patents; · protect trade secrets; · operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and · in-license or acquire certain technologies. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued or , if issued, held enforceable. The patent position of biotechnology intellectual property involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. Also, patent rights may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed which is not covered by an issued patent. The laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We seek protection, in part, through confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. These agreements may not provide protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential and proprietary information, or breach of these agreements. Furthermore, our trade secrets may otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, our competitors. We do not have exclusive access to certain patents and therefore we may face increased competition from those entities that share access to these patents. Even though we have issued patents, filed applications and received licenses pertaining to the HuMAb-Mouse® and the KM-Mouse® technologies, this does not mean that we and our licensees of the HuMAb-Mouse® and the KM-Mouse® technology will have exclusive rights to antibodies against all targets that are made using this technology, or that we or our licensees will have the right to make, develop, use or sell such antibodies. Our patents and applications covering the HuMAb-Mouse® and the KM-Mouse® technology include patents and applications that cover particular human antibodies. These patents do not cover all human antibodies. Our patents may not protect against the importation of products, such as antibodies, made using HuMAb-Mouse® or KM-Mouse® technology. We do not have exclusive access to the patents underlying the HuMAb-Mouse®. In March 1997, prior to our acquisition of GenPharm, GenPharm entered into a cross-license and settlement agreement with Abgenix, Cell Genesys, Inc., Xenotech, L.P. and Japan Tobacco, Inc., pursuant to which Abgenix and these entities paid GenPharm a total of approximately $38.6 million in exchange for a non-exclusive license to certain patents, patent applications, third-party licenses and inventions pertaining to the development and use of certain transgenic rodents, including mice, that produce fully human antibodies that are integral to 49 our products and business. These patents, patent applications, third party licenses and inventions form the basis of our HuMAb-Mouse® technology. Abgenix completed its merger with Amgen in April 2006. As a result, Amgen has access to such patents, patent applications, third party licenses and inventions. Our business may suffer from the competition of these entities and their licensees and sublicensees. We are not the exclusive owner of the technology underlying the KM-Mouse®. Effective September 2002, we entered into a collaboration and license agreement with Kirin, which provides for us to exchange certain cross-licenses for each other’s technology for the development and commercialization of human antibody products made using the HuMAb-Mouse®, the KM-Mouse® and certain other antibody-generating mice. Kirin has certain rights to distribute and use such mice throughout the world. Our business may be materially harmed as a consequence of competition from Kirin and its licensees and sublicensees or if the collaboration and license agreement were breached or terminated for any reason. Moreover, other parties could have blocking patent rights to products made using UltiMAb® technology, such as antibodies, and their production and uses, for instance because of a proprietary position covering the antibody or the antibody’s target or the method of manufacturing such antibody. For example, we are aware of certain U.S. and foreign patents held by third parties relating to particular targets for their human monoclonal antibodies, to human monoclonal antibodies against various targets, and to the method of manufacture and use of such products. We are also aware of a patent held by Pfizer which may cover the manufacture of commercial supplies of anti-CTLA-4 antibodies, such as ipilimumab. We are also aware of certain U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications held by third parties relating to anti-CTLA-4 antibodies, such as ipilimumab, as well as other antibody product candidates under development by us alone or with our collaborators. Third parties may allege our products or technologies infringe their patents or may challenge the validity of our patents and other intellectual property rights, resulting in litigation or other time-consuming and expensive proceedings which could deprive us of valuable products and/or rights. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event that our products or technologies may infringe on the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties, we and our partners may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing or commercialization or may be required to pay significant monetary damages or royalty rates to third parties. Such a result may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become involved in any intellectual property litigation, interference or other judicial or administrative proceedings, we will incur substantial expense and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be diverted. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially favorable terms, if at all. Therefore, we and our partners may be restricted or prevented from manufacturing and selling products that are covered by such intellectual property, which would materially harm our business. With respect to third party patent rights, we are aware of a U.S. patent owned by Genentech, relating to the production of recombinant antibodies in host cells. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, has reexamined the patentability of this patent and, in a final office action, rejected the patentability of such claims. Genentech has announced its intent to respond to such action and, if necessary, to appeal. Upon completion of any appeal that might take place, the rejection of the patentability of such claims could be reversed. The appeal processes could take several years to complete. We currently produce our products and our partners’ products using recombinant antibodies from host cells and may choose to produce additional products in this manner. If any of our antibody products are produced in the manner ultimately claimed in the Genentech patent, which claims survive the re- 50 examination and any appeal processes, then we may need to obtain a license, should one be available. We have a license to this patent from Genentech for our anti-CTLA-4 product candidate (ipilimumab) but currently do not have licenses for any of our other antibody product candidates. If we desire a license for any of our other antibody product candidates and are unable to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to use Genentech’s techniques to make recombinant antibodies in or to import them into the United States. In addition to this challenge to the validity of this Genentech patent through reexamination process at the USPTO, MedImmune, a licensee of the patent, has filed a complaint in Federal District Court alleging that the patent is invalid. MedImmune’s standing to prosecute this complaint as a non-breaching licensee was challenged by Genentech, but a recent Supreme Court ruling on the matter has resulted in MedImmune’s standing being upheld, and the case has been remanded for further consideration of the merits. As a result of this ruling, it may now be possible for licensees of our patents to challenge the validity of the patents that we have licensed to the licensee. In addition to Genentech’s patent, we are also aware of certain U.S. patents held by third parties relating to antibody expression in particular types of host cells, including CHO cells, including certain media preparations and their use for culturing CHO cells, and particular antibody formulations, any of which may be relevant to our current or future manufacturing techniques. If we determine that we need a license to these or other patents relating to methods of making antibodies and are unable to obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be restricted in our ability to use these methods to make antibodies or to import the antibodies into the United States. If our antibody products (or those antibody products of our partners using our human antibody technology) or their commercial use or production are covered by any of the claims of the aforementioned patents or any other patents, or patents that may issue from the aforementioned patent applications or any other patent applications, then we or our partners may need a license to one or more of these patents. Further, we are aware of a number of other third party patent applications that, if granted, with claims as currently drafted, may cover our and our partners’ current or planned activities. We cannot assure you that our products and/or actions in developing or selling human antibody products will not infringe such patents. We intend to seek licenses to such patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed. If any licenses are required, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such license on commercially favorable terms, if at all, and if these licenses are not obtained, we might be prevented from using certain of our technologies for the generation of our recombinant human antibody products. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile. Historically, there has been significant volatility in the market prices of biotechnology companies’ securities. During the two-year period ended December 31, 2006, the sale prices of our common stock ranged between $6.65 and $16.23. Various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. These factors include, by way of example: · fluctuations in our operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial therapeutic products by us or our competitors; · published reports by securities analysts; · progress with clinical trials; 51 · governmental regulation; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · developments in our relationship with collaborative partners; · public concern as to the safety and effectiveness of our products; · changes in our management; · matters relating to the investigation of our past stock option grant practices; and · general market conditions. The trading price of our common stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these or other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our common stock into the market. Broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have obligations to issue shares of our common stock in the future, which may have a dilutive effect on the shares of our common stock currently outstanding. As of January 31, 2007, we had 17,133,754 shares of common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to options and other stock based awards which had been granted under our equity incentive plans having a weighted average exercise price of $8.88 per share and we had reserved 8,382,910 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to future grants of options under our equity incentive plans. We have filed registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering all of these shares. Shares issued pursuant to these plans, other than shares issued to affiliates, will be freely tradable in the open market. Shares held by affiliates may be sold pursuant to the requirements of Rule 144. At our annual meeting of shareholders held on May 18, 2006, our shareholders approved an amendment to our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan to increase the aggregate number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under the plan by 5,500,000 shares. We intend to file a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering these additional shares, and such registration statement will become effective upon filing. Shares issued upon the exercise of options related to such additional shares, other than shares issued to affiliates, will be freely tradeable in the open market. Shares held by affiliates may be sold pursuant to the requirements of Rule 144. As of January 31, 2007, we had reserved 619,372 shares of common stock for issuance pursuant to our 2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act covering all of those shares. All shares issued under this plan, other than shares issued to affiliates, will be freely tradable on the open market. Shares held by affiliates may be sold pursuant to the requirements of Rule 144. The exercise of all or a portion of the outstanding options may result in a significant increase in the number of shares of our common stock that will be subject to trading on the NASDAQ Global Market and the issuance and sale of the shares of our common stock upon the exercise thereof may have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. As of January 31, 2007, we had 10,936,935 shares of common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to the conversion of the $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2011. Holders of these notes may convert their notes into shares of common stock at any time prior to maturity or redemption by us at a conversion rate of 72.9129 shares per each $1,000 principal amount of the notes ($13.72 per share), subject to adjustment. 52 Future sales of our common stock or other securities could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of January 31, 2007, we had 124,244,059 shares of common stock outstanding, of which approximately 10,118,000 are restricted securities as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Under certain circumstances, these restricted securities may be sold without registration pursuant to such rule. We are unable to predict the effect that sales made under Rule 144 or pursuant to any registration may have on the market price of our common stock. The sale of a significant number of additional securities, or even the possibility thereof, may lower the market price of our common stock. Upon the occurrence of certain change of control events of our company, we are required to offer to repurchase all of our debt, which may adversely affect our business and the price of our common stock. Upon the occurrence of certain change of control events of our company, we are required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2011. As of January 31, 2007, $150.0 million aggregate principal amount of these notes was outstanding. In each instance, we may pay the repurchase price in cash or, at our option, in common stock. These change of control events include, without limitation, (i) the acquisition by any third party of at least 50% of our common stock; or (ii) our merger or consolidation with or into any other person, any merger or consolidation of another person into us or our sale or other disposal of all or substantially all of our assets, except in certain limited circumstances provided in the indentures relating to the notes. Such repurchase rights may be triggered at a time at which we do not have sufficient funds available to pay the repurchase price in cash or determine that payment in cash is otherwise inadvisable. In such event, the issuance of a significant number of additional shares of common stock in payment of the repurchase price may lower the market price of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, shareholder rights plan and New Jersey law contain provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders, and as a result, our management may become entrenched and hard to replace. In May 2001, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan. The shareholder rights plan provides for a dividend of one preferred share purchase right on each outstanding share of our common stock. Each right entitles shareholders to buy 1/1000th of a share of our Series A junior participating preferred stock at an exercise price of $150.00. Each right will become exercisable following the tenth day after a person or group announces an acquisition of 20% or more of our common stock. We will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.001 per right at any time on or before the close of business on the tenth day following acquisition by a person or group of 20% or more of our common stock. The shareholder rights plan and certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and New Jersey law may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. The provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws include: · a classified board of directors; · a requirement that special meetings of shareholders be called only by our board of directors, chairman of the board, chief executive officer or president; · advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and nominations; 53 · limitations on the ability of shareholders to amend, alter or repeal our by-laws; and · the authority of the board of directors to issue, without shareholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine. We are also afforded the protections of the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act. This New Jersey statute contains provisions that impose restrictions on shareholder action to acquire control of our company. The effect of the provisions of our shareholder rights plan, restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and New Jersey law may discourage third parties from acquiring control of our company. In addition, these measures may result in the entrenchment of our management and may prevent or frustrate any attempt by shareholders to replace or remove our current management. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the growth and development of our business, and we do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there are no written comments from the SEC’s staff in connection with its review of our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that remain unresolved. 