1A. Risk Factors. Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Additional risks not presently known, or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us. We are highly dependent upon our principal executive officers who also own a significant amount of our outstanding stock. At September 30, 2008, David Chymiak, Chairman of the Board, and Kenneth Chymiak, President and Chief Executive Officer, owned approximately 46% of our outstanding common stock. Our performance is highly dependent upon the skill, experience and availability of these two persons. Should either of them become unavailable to us, our performance and results of operations could be adversely affected to a material extent. In addition, they continue to own a significant interest in us, thus limiting our ability to take any action without their approval or acquiescence. Likewise, as shareholders, they may elect to take certain actions which may be contrary to the interests of the other shareholders. 7 Our business is dependent on our customers' capital budgets. Our performance is impacted by our customers' capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading their broadband and telecommunications systems. Capital spending in the CATV and telecommunications industry is cyclical. A variety of factors will affect the amount of capital spending, and therefore, our sales and profits, including: · consolidations and recapitalizations in the cable television industry; · new housing construction; · general economic conditions; · availability and cost of capital; · other demands and opportunities for capital; · regulations; · demands for network services; · competition and technology; and · real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. Developments in the industry and in the capital markets can reduce access to funding for certain customers, causing delays in the timing and scale of deployments of our equipment, as well as the postponement or cancellation of certain projects. On the other hand, a significant increase in the capital budgets of our customers could also impact us in a negative fashion. Large upgrades or complete system upgrades are typically sourced with equipment purchased directly from OEMs. Not only do these upgrades negatively impact new product sales, they can also negatively impact recurring refurbished and repair business as the new equipment installed typically carries an OEM warranty that allows the customer to exchange bad products for new products directly with the manufacturer. The markets in which we operate are very competitive, and competitive pressures may adversely affect our results of operations. The markets for broadband communication equipment are extremely competitive and dynamic, requiring the companies that compete in these markets to react quickly and capitalize on change. This requires us to make quick decisions and deploy substantial resources in an effort to keep up with the ever-changing demands of the industry. We compete with national and international manufacturers, distributors, resellers and wholesalers including many companies larger than us. The rapid technological changes occurring in the broadband markets may lead to the entry of new competitors, including those with substantially greater resources than we have. Because the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid growth and, in some cases, low barriers to entry, smaller niche market companies and start-up ventures also may become principal competitors in the future. Actions by existing competitors and the entry of new competitors may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Consolidations in the CATV and telecommunications industry could result in delays or reductions in purchases of products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The CATV and telecommunications industry has experienced the consolidation of many industry participants, and this trend is expected to continue. We, and our competitors, may each supply products to businesses that have merged, or will merge in the future. Consolidations could result in delays in purchasing decisions by the merged businesses and we could play either a greater or lesser role in supplying communications products to the merged entity. These purchasing decisions of the merged companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mergers among the supplier base also have increased, and this trend may continue. The larger combined companies may be able to provide better solution alternatives to customers and potential customers. The larger breadth of product offerings by these consolidated suppliers could result in customers electing to trim their supplier base for the advantages of one-stop shopping solutions for all of their product needs. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all facets of our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key executives, marketing and sales personnel, which could impact our ability to maintain and grow our operations. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly technical professionals, could negatively affect our business. 8 We are substantially dependent on certain manufacturers, and an inability to obtain adequate and timely delivery of products could adversely affect our business. We are a value added reseller and master stocking distributor for Cisco and a value added reseller of Motorola broadband and transmission products. During 2008, our inventory purchases from these two companies totaled approximately $20.9 million, or 53% of our total inventory purchases. Should these relationships terminate or deteriorate, or should either manufacturer be unable or unwilling to deliver the products needed by our customers, our performance could be adversely impacted. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supplies could affect our ability to ship products on a timely basis. Any inability to reliably ship our products timely could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. We have a large investment in our inventory which could become obsolete or outdated. Determining the amounts and types of inventory requires us to speculate to some degree as to what the future demands of our customers will be. Consolidation in the industry or competition from other types of broadcast media could substantially reduce the demands for our inventory, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial results. The broadband communications industry is characterized by rapid technological change. In the future, technological advances could lead to the obsolescence of a substantial portion of our current inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have purchased a large quantity of legacy digital converter boxes which could become obsolete or outdated. Over the past 2 years we have purchased approximately 216,000 used digital converter boxes and have approximately 40,000 sellable boxes remaining in inventory as of September 30, 2008. The boxes we purchased and currently market are considered legacy boxes as the security features (which allow the MSOs or cable operators to control channel access and services) are not separable from the boxes. The FCC issued a ban on the purchase of these types of legacy boxes after July 1, 2007, which is further discussed in “Item 1. Business. Recent Business Developments.” If we fail to sell our current inventory of legacy digital boxes in the United States and there is a lack of demand for these boxes in the international market, an additional adjustment may be needed to write down the value of any remaining legacy boxes in inventory and this adjustment may have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Access to surplus digital converter boxes may become limited which would limit future sales of this product line. During 2008, we sold approximately 88,000 legacy converter boxes generating revenues of approximately $5.4 million. Recently, the availability of surplus boxes in the market has become limited as MSOs are no longer selling excess boxes but rather choosing to keep the legacy boxes and reuse them. As a result, future revenues from this product line could be negatively impacted by the limited supply of surplus boxes. Our outstanding common stock is very thinly traded. While we have approximately 10.3 million shares of common stock outstanding, 46% of these shares are beneficially owned at September 30, 2008 by David Chymiak and Kenneth Chymiak. As a consequence, only about 54% of our shares of common stock are held by nonaffiliated, public investors and available for public trading. The average daily trading volume of our common stock is sometimes so low that small trades have an impact on the price of our stock. Thus, investors in our common stock may encounter difficulty in liquidating their investment in a timely and efficient manner. We have not paid any dividends on our outstanding common stock and have no plans to pay dividends in the future. We currently plan to retain our earnings and have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. We may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements which may restrict our ability to declare dividends on our common stock. Our principal executive officers and shareholders have certain conflicts of interest with us. In 2007, the Company purchased an office and warehouse facility from an entity owned by our principal executive officers. In addition, the Company has leased certain office and warehouse properties from two entities owned by our principal executive officers, and we continue to lease one of those properties on a month-to-month basis. We also redeemed all of the outstanding shares of preferred stock held by these officers in fiscal 2008. These transactions are described in the proxy statement that is incorporated by reference into this report. These arrangements create certain conflicts of interest between these executives and us that may not always be resolved in a manner most beneficial to us. 9 Our sales to international customers may be adversely affected by a number of factors. Although the majority of our business efforts are focused in the United States, we sell direct to customers in Philippines, Taiwan, Japan, Brazil, Columbia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Panama, Peru, Mexico and a few other Latin American countries. Our foreign sales may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: · local political and economic developments could restrict or increase the cost of selling to foreign locations; · exchange controls and currency fluctuations; · tax increases and retroactive tax claims for profits generated from international sales; · expropriation of our property could result in loss of revenue and inventory; · import and export regulations and other foreign laws or policies could result in loss of revenues; and · laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment could restrict our ability to fund foreign business or make foreign business more costly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 