RISK FACTORS Each of the following risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Additional risks not presently known, or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us. We are highly dependent upon our principal executive officers who also control us. At September 30, 2005, David Chymiak, Chairman of the Board, and Kenneth Chymiak, President and Chief Executive Officer, owned approximately 69% of our outstanding common stock and 100% of our outstanding preferred stock. Our performance is highly dependent upon the skill, experience and availability of these two persons. Should either of them become unavailable to us, our performance and results of operations would probably be adversely affected to a material extent. In addition, they will continue to own a controlling interest in us, thus restricting our ability to take any action without their approval or acquiescence. Likewise, as shareholders, they may elect to take certain actions which may be contrary to the interests of the other shareholders. Our business is dependent on our customers’ capital budgets. Our performance is impacted by our customers’ capital spending for constructing, rebuilding, maintaining or upgrading broadband communications systems. Capital spending in the telecommunications industry is cyclical. A variety of factors will affect the amount of capital spending, and therefore, our sales and profits, including: • consolidations and recapitalizations in the cable television industry; • general economic conditions; • availability and cost of capital; • other demands and opportunities for capital; • regulations; • demands for network services; • competition and technology; and • real or perceived trends or uncertainties in these factors. Developments in the industry and in the capital markets in recent years have reduced access to funding for certain customers, causing delays in the timing and scale of deployments of our equipment, as well as the postponement or cancellation of certain projects by our customers. On the other hand, a significant increase in the capital budgets of our customers could impact us in a negative fashion. Much of our inventory consists of refurbished and surplus-new equipment and materials that we have acquired from other cable operators. If our customers seek higher end, more expensive equipment, the demand for our products may suffer. The markets in which we operate are very competitive, and competitive pressures may adversely affect our results of operations. The markets for broadband communication equipment are extremely competitive and dynamic, requiring the companies that compete in these markets to react quickly and capitalize on change. This will require us to make quick decisions and deploy substantial resources in an effort to keep up with the ever-changing demands of the industry. We compete with national and international manufacturers, distributors, resellers and wholesalers including many companies larger than we are. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The rapid technological changes occurring in the broadband markets may lead to the entry of new competitors, including those with substantially greater resources than we have. Because the markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid growth and, in some cases, low barriers to entry, smaller niche market companies and start-up ventures also may become principal competitors in the future. Actions by existing competitors and the entry of new competitors may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The broadband communications industry is further characterized by rapid technological change. In the future, technological advances could lead to the obsolescence of a substantial portion of our current inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consolidations in the telecommunications industry could result in delays or reductions in purchases of products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The telecommunications industry has experienced the consolidation of many industry participants, and this trend is expected to continue. We and one or more of our competitors may each supply products to businesses that have merged, such as AT&T Broadband and Comcast, or will merge in the future. Consolidations could result in delays in purchasing decisions by the merged businesses, and we could play either a greater or lesser role in supplying the communications products to the merged entity. These purchasing decisions of the merged companies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Mergers among the supplier base also have increased, and this trend may continue. The larger combined companies with pooled capital resources may be able to provide solution alternatives with which we would be at a disadvantage to compete. The larger breadth of product offerings by these consolidated suppliers could result in customers electing to trim their supplier base for the advantages of one-stop shopping solutions for all of their product needs. Consolidation of the supplier base could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in all facets of our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key executives, marketing, engineering and sales personnel, which could impact our ability to maintain and grow our operations. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our management to operate effectively. The loss of services of any key personnel, the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineers and other technical professionals, could negatively affect our business. We are substantially dependent on certain manufacturers, and an inability to obtain adequate and timely delivery of products could adversely affect our business. We are a value added reseller and master distributor for Scientific-Atlanta and a value added reseller of Motorola broadband and transmission products. Should these relationships terminate or deteriorate, or should either manufacturer be unable or unwilling to deliver the products needed by us for our customers, our performance could be adversely impacted. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supplies could affect our ability to ship products on a timely basis. Any inability to reliably ship our products on time could damage relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business. We have a large investment in our inventory which could become obsolete or outdated. Much of our inventory is acquired from other cable operators and is in the nature of used, refurbished, 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements remanufactured or surplus new equipment. Determining the amounts and types of inventory requires us to speculate to some degree as to what the future demands of our customers will be. Technological changes, consolidation in the industry or competition from other types of broadcast media could substantially reduce the demands for our inventory, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial results. Our outstanding common stock is very thinly traded. While we have approximately 10.1 million shares of common stock outstanding, 69% of these shares are beneficially owned at December 1, 2005 by David Chymiak and Kenneth Chymiak. As a consequence, only about 31% of our shares of common stock are held by nonaffiliated, public investors and available for public trading. The average daily trading volume of our common stock is low. Thus, investors in our common stock may encounter difficulty in liquidating their investment in a timely and efficient manner. We have not paid any dividends on our outstanding common stock and have no plans to pay dividends in the future. We currently plan to retain our earnings and have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. We may also enter into credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements which may restrict our ability to declare dividends on our common stock. Our principal executive officers and shareholders have a number of conflicts of interest with us. Certain of our key properties are leased from entities owned by our principal executive officers. Also, these executives have made loans to us in various amounts in the past and were paid interest on these loans. These transactions are described in the proxy statement that is incorporated by reference into this report. These arrangements create certain conflicts of interest between these executives and us that may not always be resolved in a manner most beneficial to us. Our international operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors. Although the majority of our business efforts are focused in the United States, we have international operations in the Philippines, Taiwan, Korea, Japan, Australia, Brazil, Ecuador, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Panama, Mexico, Columbia and a few other Latin American countries. We currently have no binding agreements or commitments to make any material international investment. Our foreign operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • local political and economic developments could restrict or increase the cost of our foreign operations; • exchange controls and currency fluctuations; • tax increases and retroactive tax claims could increase costs of our foreign operations; • expropriation of our property could result in loss of revenue, property and equipment; • import and export regulations and other foreign laws or policies could result in loss of revenues; and • laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment could restrict our ability to fund foreign operations or make foreign operations more costly. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements OVERVIEW OF THE INDUSTRY We participate in markets for equipment sold primarily to cable operators and other related parties. As internet usage by households continues to increase, more customers are electing to switch from dial-up access services to high-speed services, particularly those offered by cable operators in the United States. Within the last few years, certain cable operators have begun to offer a “triple-play” bundle of services that includes voice, video and high-speed data over a single network with the objective of capturing higher average revenues per subscriber. We believe cable operators are well positioned to deliver next-generation voice, video and data services because cable operators have invested significantly over the past few years to upgrade their cable plants to digital networks. These upgrades allow them to leverage their incumbent video and high speed data positions further. Many cable operators have well-equipped networks to offer video and two-way high-speed data services to over 90% of their subscribers and through their existing Hybrid Fiber Co-axial (HFC) infrastructure, are capable of delivering symmetrical high-bandwidth video, voice and data to their subscribers. For the past couple of years, we believe that we have been able to provide the products and services sought after by cable operators as they establish and expand their services and territories. Our relationships with our principal vendors, Scientific-Atlanta and Motorola, provide solutions with products that are required to implement and support existing cable operators. These relationships and our inventory are key factors in our significant revenue and profits. We are focused on the opportunities provided by technological changes in fiber-to-the premises, the expansion of bandwidth, and our recent appointment as a Scientific-Atlanta International Distributor for Latin and South America. We will continue to stock legacy CATV equipment as well as digital and optical broadband telecommunications equipment from major suppliers so we can provide our customers one-stop shopping and access to “hard-to-find” products by reducing customer downtime by our having the product in stock. Our customers consult with us for solutions for various products and configurations. Our experienced sales support staff has the technical know-how to consult with our customers regarding solutions for various products and configurations. Through our seven world-class service centers that provide warranty and out-of-warranty repairs, we continue to reach new customers. 