ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information in this document. See “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosures”. Our ability to anticipate and respond to changing client preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner The specialty retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in the economy and customer preferences. These fluctuations especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers since we enter into agreements for the manufacture and purchase of our private label apparel well in advance of the applicable selling season. As a result, we are vulnerable to changes in consumer demand, pricing shifts, and the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to consistently gauge fashion trends and to provide merchandise that satisfies client demands in a timely manner. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could lead to lower sales, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The effect of competitive pressures from other retailers The specialty retail industry is highly competitive. Our stores compete with certain departments in national or local department stores and with other specialty stores, catalogs and internet businesses that offer similar categories of merchandise. Many of our competitors are considerably larger players with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with them in the future. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations and lease terms. We also face competition from other retailers that recently have been developing brand extensions and new concepts targeted at our client base. Our ability to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights We believe that our “AnnTaylor” and “AnnTaylor Loft” trademarks are important to our success. Even though we take action to establish, register and protect our trademarks and other intellectual proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate to prevent infringement of our trademarks and proprietary rights by others. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by other parties in these countries. In addition, our license to use the “ANN TAYLOR” trademark for manufacturing and exporting purposes in the People’s Republic of China expires on June 30, 2015 unless the parties agree to an extension. See “Business – Trademarks and Service Marks”. 7 Table of Contents The effect of general economic conditions The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors impacting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, consumer debt, taxation, energy prices, interest rates and consumer confidence. There can be no assurance that consumer spending will not be negatively affected by general or local economic conditions, thereby adversely impacting our continued growth and results of operations. Our ability to grow through new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions Our continued growth and success will depend in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. Accomplishing our store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including locating suitable sites, negotiating favorable lease terms and hiring and training qualified personnel, particularly at the store management level. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively or operate our new and remodeled stores profitably. Fluctuation in our level of sales and earnings growth A variety of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our rate of growth and performance. These factors include, among other things, client trends and preferences, competition, economic conditions, managing inventory effectively and new store openings. There can be no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of sales and earnings growth, and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our reliance on foreign sources of production While we purchase merchandise from domestic and foreign suppliers, a majority of our merchandise is purchased from foreign suppliers. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing or imports from those countries, or the imposition of additional import restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We cannot predict with certainty whether any of the foreign countries in which our products are currently manufactured or any of the countries in which we may manufacture our products in the future will be subject to future import restrictions by the U.S. government, including the likelihood, type or degree of effect of any such new trade restriction. Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, on apparel or other items sold by us could affect the importation of such merchandise and could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Further, the U.S. may impose additional duties in response to an investigation as to whether a particular product being sold in the United States at less than fair value may cause (or threaten to cause) material injury to the relevant domestic industry as claimed by such industry. Our merchandise flow may also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our goods are manufactured, the potential impact of natural disasters and public health concerns, particularly on our foreign sourcing offices and manufacturing operations of our vendors, if they affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise from such countries. Merchandise flow may also be adversely affected by significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds. In addition, the violation of labor or other laws by any of our independent manufacturers, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those specified in our human rights compliance program or otherwise generally accepted as ethical by others in the U.S., could damage our reputation and force us to locate alternative manufacturing sources. Our reliance on key personnel Our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel in the future. Our operations could be adversely affected if, for any reason, one or more key executive officers ceased to be active in our management. 8 Table of Contents Our ability to successfully upgrade and maintain our information systems We rely upon our various information systems to manage our operations and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these or other new systems, or in integrating these systems with our current systems, or any other disruptions affecting our information systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Any failure to maintain adequate system security controls to protect our computer assets and sensitive data, including client data, from unauthorized access, disclosure or use could also damage our reputation with our clients. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption is dependent in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our business continuity plan. Our dependence on a single distribution facility Our distribution functions for all of our stores are handled from a single facility in Louisville, Kentucky. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores, which could cause sales to decline. The impact of the Ann Taylor Factory business strategy Our product strategy at Ann Taylor Factory stores is evolving to a more direct merchandise approach, with product designed specifically to carry the Ann Taylor Factory label. The success of this strategy is dependent on a number of factors, including client acceptance of the Factory label merchandise, the effect on gross margin rates at Ann Taylor and LOFT of selling clearance merchandise formerly sold at Ann Taylor Factory stores, as well as the impact on the look of our Ann Taylor and LOFT stores and the effect that might have on sales at those divisions. There can be no assurance that our Ann Taylor Factory store merchandise strategy will deliver sales and margin gains and increase overall profitability. Risks associated with Internet sales We sell merchandise over the Internet through our websites, www.anntaylor.com and www.anntaylorLOFT.com. Although our Internet operations encompass only a small percentage of our total sales, our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Our Internet operations also involve other risks that could have an impact on our results of operations including diversion of sales from our stores, rapid technological change, liability for online content, violations of state or federal privacy laws, credit card fraud, risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. There can be no assurance about the performance of our Internet operations or their ability to achieve sales and profitability growth. Effects of war, terrorism or other catastrophes Threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the United States and worldwide could lead to lower client traffic in regional shopping centers. Natural disasters could also impact our ability to open and run our stores in affected areas, such as when we closed certain stores in the New Orleans area temporarily in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Lower client traffic due to security concerns and war, or the threat of war, and natural disasters could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 9 Table of Contents 