ITEM 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and the forward-looking information in this document. Please also see “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosures”. The risks described below are not the only risks our business faces. We may also be adversely affected by additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our ability to anticipate and respond to changing client preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner Our success largely depends on our ability to consistently gauge fashion trends and provide merchandise that satisfies client demands in a timely manner. Any missteps may affect merchandise quality and inventory levels, since we enter into agreements to manufacture and purchase our merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, excess inventories and more frequent markdowns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Merchandise misjudgments could also negatively impact our image with our clients. The effect of competitive pressures from other retailers The specialty retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with national, international and local department stores, specialty and discount stores, catalogs and internet businesses offering similar categories of merchandise. Many of our competitors are companies with substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources. There is no assurance that we can compete successfully with them in the future. In addition to competing for sales, we compete for favorable store locations and lease terms. We also face competition from retailers that recently have been developing brand extensions and new concepts targeted at our client base. Increased competition could reduce our sales and margins and adversely affect results of operations. Our ability to secure and protect trademarks and other intellectual property rights We believe that our “AnnTaylor”, “AnnTaylor Loft” and “LOFT” trademarks are important to our success. Even though we register and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, there is no assurance that our actions will protect us from the prior registration by others or prevent others from infringing our trademarks and proprietary rights or seeking to block sales of our products as infringements of their trademarks and proprietary rights. In addition, our license to use the “Ann Taylor” trademark for manufacturing and exporting purposes in the People’s Republic of China expires on June 30, 2015 unless the parties agree to an extension. See “Business – Trademarks and Service Marks”. The effect of general economic conditions The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors impacting discretionary consumer spending, including general economic conditions, employment, consumer debt, taxation, fuel and energy prices, interest rates, political conditions such as war, terrorism and political unrest, and consumer confidence. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, may decline during recessionary periods and other periods where disposable income is adversely affected. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of our merchandise and adversely impact our continued growth and results of operations. Our ability to grow through new store openings and existing store remodels and expansions Our continued growth and success depends in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores on a timely and profitable basis. Accomplishing our store expansion goals depends upon a number of factors, including locating suitable sites, negotiating favorable lease terms and hiring and training qualified associates, particularly at the store management level. We must also be able to effectively renew and negotiate expansion terms in existing store leases. There is no assurance that we will achieve our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively or operate our new and remodeled stores profitably. 7 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain the value of our brand Our success depends on the value of our Ann Taylor and LOFT brands. The Ann Taylor and LOFT names are integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Maintaining, promoting and positioning our brands will depend largely on the success of our design, merchandising, and marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high quality client experience. Our brands could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve these objectives or if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity. Any of these events could negatively impact sales. Our ability to execute brand extensions and new concepts In addition to our store growth strategy, part of our business strategy is to grow our existing brands and identify and develop new growth opportunities. Our success with new product offerings or concepts requires significant capital expenditures and management attention. Any such plan is subject to risks such as client acceptance, competition, product differentiation, challenges to economies of scale in merchandise sourcing and the ability to attract and retain qualified associates, including management and designers. There is no assurance that these product offerings or concepts will be successful or that our overall profitability will increase as a result. Our failure to successfully execute our growth strategies may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuation in our level of sales and earnings growth A variety of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable stores sales results and margins. These factors include client trends and preferences, competition, economic conditions, weather, effective inventory management and new store openings. There is no assurance that we will achieve positive levels of sales and earnings growth, and any decline in our future growth or performance could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our reliance on foreign sources of production We purchase a significant portion of our merchandise from foreign suppliers. As a result, we are subject to the various risks of doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: • imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas or other restrictions that may limit the quantity of goods that may be imported into the United States from countries in regions where we do business; • imposition of new legislation relating to port security that may create congestion and/or disrupt merchandise flow; • imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; • imposition of anti-dumping or countervailing duties in response to an investigation as to whether a particular product being sold in the United States at less than fair value may cause (or threaten to cause) material injury to the relevant domestic industry; • financial or political instability in any of the countries in which our goods are manufactured; • impact of natural disasters and public health concerns on our foreign sourcing offices and vendor manufacturing operations; • fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies or restrictions on the transfer of funds; • potential recalls for any merchandise that does not meet our quality standards; and • disruption of imports by labor disputes and local business practices. We cannot predict whether any of the foreign countries in which our goods are manufactured, or in which our goods may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to import restrictions by the U.S. government. Any sudden disruption of manufacturing or imposition of trade restrictions, such as increased tariffs or more restrictive quotas on apparel or other items we sell could affect the import of such merchandise and could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 8 Table of Contents In addition, the raw materials used to manufacture our products are subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, weather conditions, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Increases in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to manufacture our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our cost of sales or our ability to meet our clients’ demands. We may not be able to pass all or a portion of such higher raw material costs onto our clients, which could negatively impact our profitability. Our reliance on third party manufacturers We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and depend on independent third parties to manufacture our merchandise. We cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with merchandise specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. A manufacturer’s failure to ship merchandise to us on a timely basis or to meet the required quality standards could cause supply shortages and failure to meet client expectations, which could result in lost sales. Manufacturer compliance with our social practices requirements While we require our independent manufacturers to comply with the Ann Taylor Global Supplier Principles and Guidelines and monitor their compliance with these guidelines, we do not control the manufacturers or their labor practices. Any failure of our independent manufacturers to comply with our Global Supplier Principles and Guidelines, local labor laws in the country of manufacture or divergence of a manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally acceptable as ethical in the United States could disrupt the shipment of finished product to us, force us to locate alternative manufacturing sources, reduce demand for our merchandise or damage our reputation. Our reliance on key management Our success depends to a significant extent both upon the continued services of our current executive and senior management team, as well as our ability to attract, hire, motivate and retain additional qualified management in the future. Competition for key executives in the retail industry is intense, and our operations could be adversely affected if we cannot attract and retain qualified associates. Our ability to successfully upgrade and maintain our information systems We rely heavily on information systems to manage our operations, including a full range of retail, financial, sourcing and merchandising systems, and regularly make investments to upgrade, enhance or replace these systems. Any delays or difficulties in transitioning to these or other new systems, or in integrating these systems with our current systems, or any other disruptions affecting our information systems, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Any failure to maintain adequate system security controls to protect our computer assets and sensitive data, including client data, from unauthorized access, disclosure or use could also damage our reputation with our clients. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our business without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our business continuity plan. Our dependence on a single distribution facility We handle merchandise distribution for all of our stores from a single facility in Louisville, Kentucky. Independent third party transportation companies deliver our merchandise to our stores and our clients. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility or the domestic transportation infrastructure due to natural disasters, accidents, inclement weather, system failures, work stoppages by employees of the transportation companies, or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our stores, which could result in lower sales, a loss of loyalty to our brands and excess inventory. 9 Table of Contents Risks associated with Internet sales We sell merchandise over the Internet through our websites, www.anntaylor.com and www.anntaylorloft.com. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • reliance on third party computer hardware/software and order fulfillment providers; • rapid technological change; • diversion of sales from our stores; • liability for online content; • violations of state or federal privacy laws; • credit card fraud; • risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our websites and their related support systems, including computer viruses; and • telecommunications failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. There is no assurance that our Internet operations will achieve sales and profitability growth. Effects of war, terrorism or other catastrophes Threat of terrorist attacks or actual terrorist events in the United States and worldwide could disrupt the production, shipment or receipt of our merchandise or lead to lower client traffic in regional shopping centers. Natural disasters could also impact our ability to open and run our stores in affected areas. Lower client traffic due to security concerns, war or the threat of war and natural disasters could result in decreased sales that would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to achieve the results of our restructuring program In January 2008, we announced a multi-year restructuring program as part of a major drive to enhance profitability and improve overall operating effectiveness. The key elements of our restructuring program include: optimization of our store portfolio, organizational streamlining, and a broad-based productivity initiative. The estimated costs and charges associated with the restructuring program are preliminary and may vary materially based on various factors, including the timing in execution of the restructuring plan; outcome of negotiations with landlords and other third parties; inventory levels; and changes in management’s assumptions and projections. As a result of these events and circumstances, delays and unexpected costs may occur, which could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the restructuring program. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 10 Table of Contents 