Item 1A. Risk Factors ICOS operates in an environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are not considered material, and therefore not mentioned herein, may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial position could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may be unable to sustain profitability. We have incurred significant operating losses since we began operations in 1990. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $862.6 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or increase profitability. We anticipate that operating expenses will increase in the future as we continue development of our potential products, seek to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and manufacture and market these product candidates. Directly, and through Lilly ICOS, we expect to continue to incur substantial marketing and other expenses related to commercializing Cialis in the United States, Europe, Mexico and Canada. Furthermore, Lilly ICOS may incur significant expenses in demonstrating safety and efficacy in order to provide a basis for seeking regulatory approvals to market tadalafil in new indications. Lilly ICOS and/or ICOS may be unable to generate sufficient revenues from Cialis and other products to achieve and maintain profitability. Overall changes in market demand for erectile dysfunction drugs, and Lilly ICOS’ ability to capture and retain market share, will significantly affect revenues and expected profitability from Cialis and, in turn, our results of operations and cash flows. For example, in 2005, the overall U.S. market of PDE5 inhibitor prescriptions, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, is estimated to have declined by approximately 3.2%, compared to 2004. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenue and other income are unpredictable and may fluctuate due to many factors, some of which we cannot control. For example, factors affecting our revenue and other income, as well as Lilly ICOS’ revenue, presently or in the future, could include: • level of demand for our products, including changes in physician prescribing habits, and unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products; • changes in wholesaler buying patterns; • changes in reimbursement rates or policies; • timing of non-recurring license fees and the achievement of milestones under license and collaborative agreements; • government regulation, including regulations related to the marketing of our products; • increased competition for new or existing products; • timing and success of product launches; • level of our contract manufacturing for third parties; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • changes in our product marketing, selling and pricing strategies and programs; and • inability to provide adequate supply of our products. In addition, our expenses, including payments owed by us under licensing or collaborative arrangements, are unpredictable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indicator of our future performance and should not be relied upon to predict our future performance. It is possible that, in the future, our operating results in a particular quarter or quarters will not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. Even though Cialis has been approved for commercial sale, if we or others identify additional side effects, approval could be withdrawn or sales of Cialis could be significantly reduced. If we or others identify additional or potential side effects, or if manufacturing problems occur: • we may take Cialis off the market; • regulatory approval may be withdrawn or other regulatory sanctions may be imposed; • reformulation of the product, additional clinical studies, and/or changes in labeling of the product may be required; • changes to or re-approvals of our or our partner’s manufacturing facilities may be required; • our reputation in the marketplace may suffer; and • lawsuits, including class action suits, may be brought against us. 14 Table of Contents The identification of additional or potential side effects, and subsequent consequences, could harm or prevent sales of Cialis or could increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing Cialis. General post-marketing surveillance of our product is ongoing, as well as specific studies that are required as part of our marketing approvals in various jurisdictions. Either of these sources could result in the identification of new or potential side effects. For example, in May 2005, Lilly ICOS added certain vision-related adverse events to the label for Cialis, based on reports from post-marketing surveillance. Subsequently, there was substantial media attention regarding a possible connection between use of Viagra® (sildenafil citrate), another PDE5 inhibitor for the treatment of erectile dysfunction, and the development of non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION), a condition that may lead to permanent visual impairment or blindness. In July 2005, the FDA issued a statement indicating that information regarding reports of NAION in patients using PDE5 inhibitors had been added to the labels of all products in the PDE5 inhibitor class, including Cialis. The FDA statement and the relevant label language state that a causal relationship between the development of NAION and use of these drugs has not been established. Such a causal relationship could be established in the future. Adverse media attention and concerns related to side effects may reduce sales of Cialis. The success of Cialis depends, in large part, on the promotion, sales and marketing activities of our partner, Lilly. Similarly, the success of our potential products in development could depend on our ability to arrange assistance from third parties. Through Lilly ICOS, we and Lilly have joint responsibility for the promotion and sale of Cialis in North America and Europe. Lilly has rights to Cialis for the other parts of the world, with royalties to be paid to Lilly ICOS. We believe that the efforts of a sizeable pharmaceutical sales force and experienced marketing staff are important to the continued success of the product. We have relied, and expect to continue to rely, heavily on Lilly for promotion, sales and marketing of Cialis, even with respect to our joint responsibilities. We have limited staff and experience in these areas, and we may or may not be capable of independently fulfilling our responsibilities. We and Lilly may also rely on contract sales organizations to perform sales activities for Cialis. If Lilly fails to devote appropriate resources to promotion and sales activities, sales of Cialis could be reduced or could fail to reach their full potential. In addition, if Lilly breaches or terminates its agreement with us, or otherwise fails to conduct its activities related to Cialis in an effective or timely manner, sales of Cialis could be delayed, reduced or become substantially more costly for us to achieve. We will face similar risks with respect to new product candidates that we commercialize (i.e., without the assistance of a third party, we may be unable to establish marketing, sales and distribution capabilities necessary to successfully commercialize new products). Co-promotion or other marketing arrangements with others may be needed to commercialize our potential products. However, these arrangements could significantly limit the revenues we derive from these potential products and increase associated operating expenses. Additionally, these parties may fail to commercialize our potential products successfully. We may be unable to compete successfully in the markets for pharmaceutical and biotechnological products. The markets in which we compete are well established and intensely competitive. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our failure to compete successfully may result in pricing reductions, reduced gross margins, failure to achieve market acceptance for our products, and an inability to achieve or grow profitability. Cialis and our potential products, if approved and commercialized, compete or will compete against well established existing therapeutic products or treatments. For example, Pfizer Inc. successfully commercialized Viagra® (sildenafil citrate), a PDE5 inhibitor that competes with our product, Cialis. GlaxoSmithKline and Bayer AG, outside the United States, and GlaxoSmithKline and Schering-Plough Corporation, in the United States, are marketing Levitra® (vardenafil HCl), a third PDE5 inhibitor. Pfizer, Bayer AG, GlaxoSmithKline and Schering-Plough have invested substantial resources in marketing their PDE5 inhibitor products, and we would anticipate 15 Table of Contents that they would continue efforts to aggressively compete in this market. In addition, a number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are currently developing new products targeting the same diseases and medical conditions that we target. Another PDE5 inhibitor, Zydena, was approved for marketing in Korea in November 2005, and an investigational new drug application related to this product has been filed with the FDA. Other erectile dysfunction treatments are in development, and any other products or technologies that are directly or indirectly successful in treating erectile dysfunction could negatively impact the market for Cialis. If a PDE5 inhibitor with a time of effectiveness comparable to or longer than that of Cialis or a generic PDE5 inhibitor is successfully commercialized, it might have a significant adverse effect on the market for Cialis. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, academic and research institutions and government agencies. Many of these organizations, including those who market PDE5 inhibitors that compete with Cialis, have substantially more experience and more capital, research and development, regulatory, manufacturing, sales, marketing, human and other resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may: • develop products that are safer, more effective or less costly than any of our current or future products or that render our products obsolete; • obtain FDA and other regulatory approvals or reach the market with their products more rapidly than we can or with labeling claims more favorable than ours, which would reduce the potential sales of our product candidates; • obtain intellectual property rights that could increase our costs or prevent development or commercialization of our product candidates; • devote greater resources to market or sell their products; • adapt more quickly to new technologies and scientific advances; • initiate or withstand substantial price competition more successfully than we can; • have greater success in recruiting skilled workers from the limited pool of available talent; • more effectively negotiate third-party licensing and collaborative arrangements; and • take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily than we can. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to products and proprietary technology. In addition, we anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our markets and as scientific developments surrounding protein-based and small molecule therapeutics continue to accelerate. The successful development of new therapeutic products is complex and takes a long time, and our efforts may not result in commercial products. Successful development of pharmaceutical and biotechnology products is highly uncertain, and very few research and development projects produce a commercial product. Any failure or substantial delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates may severely harm our business. We must subject our potential product candidates to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of any of such products. Clinical studies are expensive, time-consuming and may take years to complete. We may not complete preclinical tests and clinical studies of product 16 Table of Contents candidates under development, and the results of the tests and studies may fail to demonstrate the safety or efficacy of such product candidates to the extent necessary to obtain regulatory approvals or to make commercialization of the product candidates worthwhile. At any time during these clinical studies, factors such as ineffectiveness of the product candidate, discovery of unacceptable toxicities or side effects, development of disease resistance or other physiological factors, or delays in patient enrollment, could cause us to interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of these product candidates. In addition, success in preclinical and early clinical studies does not ensure that late-stage or large-scale studies will succeed. Many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical studies, even after promising results had been obtained in earlier studies. We have stopped two late-stage, Phase 3 clinical studies of product candidates following interim analyses: a Phase 3 study of Pafase® (rPAF-AH) for the treatment of severe sepsis was stopped in 2002; and a study of LeukArrest™ (rovelizumab) for the treatment of ischemic stroke was stopped in 2000. We anticipate that only some of our product candidates will show safety and efficacy in clinical studies and many may encounter difficulties or delays during clinical development. Our efforts to obtain approval for additional indications for tadalafil are subject to many of the same risks associated with new products. Government regulatory authorities may not approve our product candidates or may delay their approval. Any failure to receive the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates could severely harm our business. Human therapeutic products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation. For example, the FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of pharmaceutical products. Products marketed abroad are also subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. Except for Cialis, we have not had any product candidate approved for sale in any country. In addition, we have only limited experience in filing and pursuing applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, which may impede our ability to obtain such approvals. The regulatory review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. To secure FDA approval, we must submit extensive manufacturing, preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA, for each indication for which we are seeking approval, to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. The approval process may take years to complete and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. The effect of government regulation may be to: • delay marketing potential products for a considerable period of time; • limit the indicated uses for which potential products may be marketed; • specify contraindications or other risk management requirements that may limit the use of our products; • impose costly requirements on us as a condition of approval or continued use of our products; and • provide competitive advantage to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In addition, regulatory compliance may prevent us from introducing new or improved products or may require us to stop marketing products. If we fail to comply with the laws and regulations pertaining to our business, we may be subject to sanctions, including the temporary or permanent suspension of operations, product recalls, marketing restrictions and civil and criminal penalties. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to establish or maintain the manufacturing capabilities necessary to develop and commercialize our potential products. We do not currently have facilities to manufacture Cialis or our product candidates in quantities necessary for commercial sale. In addition, our manufacturing capacity may be inadequate to complete all clinical studies contemplated by us over time. We intend to rely significantly on contract manufacturers, including collaboration partners, to produce large quantities of drug material needed for clinical studies and commercialization of Cialis and our potential products. Cialis is currently manufactured by Lilly. We will have to depend on contract manufacturers to deliver materials on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements, including Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, regulations enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. Contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our needs with respect to timing, quantity or quality of materials, and may fail to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements with respect to the manufacture of these materials. If we are unable to contract for a sufficient supply of needed materials on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or difficulties in our relationships with manufacturers, our revenues and potential profitability may be lower. Our business may be harmed if we cannot obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and process them reliably and timely. We depend on others for the timely supply of raw materials used to manufacture Cialis and to conduct preclinical testing and clinical studies of product candidates. Once a supplier’s materials have been selected for use in our manufacturing process, the supplier in effect becomes a sole or limited source of that raw material due to regulatory compliance procedures. Presently, Lilly is the sole authorized provider of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) utilized in the manufacture of Cialis, and all API production for Cialis is conducted at a single Lilly facility. Lilly relies on a third-party vendor which has the exclusive rights to mill the API to conform the drug substance to specifications used in the manufacturing process. Once milled, the refined API is shipped to various Lilly locations, where the drug substance is manufactured into tablets, packaged and made ready for sale. At each of these stages in the manufacturing process, Lilly ICOS depends on an exclusive provider (i.e., Lilly or another vendor) for the timely supply and processing of raw materials. If any of these suppliers or processing facilities were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply Lilly ICOS with raw materials or manufacturing services in a timely manner, Lilly ICOS and ICOS could be materially adversely affected. Similar risks exist with respect to raw materials used in testing and developing our other product candidates. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, the value of Cialis or of our potential products could be diminished. Our success depends to a significant extent on our ability and the ability of our collaboration partners to obtain, maintain and enforce patents and other proprietary rights. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields in which we operate is still evolving and subject to a substantial degree of uncertainty. Accordingly, there may be third-party patents or patent applications relevant to Cialis or our potential products that might block or compete with the technologies and products covered by our patents or patent applications. We also cannot be certain that our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or that we were the first to invent the technology. A third party has filed a claim seeking to add three individuals as co-inventors on two ICOS patents. This lawsuit is described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Additionally, although we own or control a number of patents, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. Third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents. We cannot assure you regarding how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents or that challenges will result in revocation or invalidation of the patents or in limitations of their coverage. Furthermore, the cost of litigation and administrative proceedings to uphold the validity and enforceability of patents can be substantial. If we are unsuccessful in such proceedings, third parties may be able to use our patented technologies without paying licensing fees or royalties to us. 18 Table of Contents Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file claims based on our patents, which are expensive and time-consuming. In such proceedings, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the ground that its technology is not covered by our patents. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. We may not be able to detect and prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights related to Cialis and our other technologies, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. We also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We may be unable to effectively protect our rights to this technology or information. Other parties may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. It is our policy to require each of our employees, consultants and corporate partners to execute a confidentiality and intellectual property agreement at the start of their relationship with us. These agreements may not, however, provide effective protection of our technology or information and, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, may not provide adequate remedies. We may be subject to liability and substantial damages and costs or be prohibited from marketing Cialis or commercializing our potential products as a result of patent infringement litigation and other proceedings relating to patent rights. Patent litigation is common in the pharmaceutical industry. Third parties may assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us or our collaboration partners regarding Cialis or our potential products. For example, we are subject to a patent lawsuit filed by Pfizer in October 2002, which alleges that the use, offering for sale, selling, manufacture or importing of Cialis, into the United States, for the treatment of erectile dysfunction by any of the defendants infringes one claim of a U.S. patent held by Pfizer. This lawsuit is described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Ultimately we may be unable to market Cialis or commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Even if we were to prevail, this litigation is costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Furthermore, after seeking advice of counsel, we may undertake research and development regarding potential products, even when we are aware of third-party patents that may be relevant to these potential products, on the basis that such third-party patents may be challenged or licensed by us. We may be subject to patent infringement claims if our subsequent challenges to such patents were not to prevail. Additionally, if our subsequent attempts to license such patents were to prove unsuccessful, we may be unable to commercialize these potential products after having incurred significant expenditures. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual harm caused by Cialis or our product candidates. We face inherent exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of Cialis or our product candidate is alleged to have resulted in harm to others. This risk exists with respect to usage in clinical studies as well as for products that we sell. We may incur significant liability if product liability or malpractice lawsuits against us are successful. Furthermore, product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business concerns, or adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. 19 Table of Contents We may be subject to product liability or other claims related to the products we manufacture for third parties. We manufacture recombinant protein bulk product under contract for third parties who, in many cases, intend to use them in human clinical trials and distribute them to the public. Even though we do not distribute, market or sell the products to end users ourselves, we may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages if any of the products is alleged to have harmed someone. We take steps to protect ourselves against the potential liabilities associated with these risks, including obtaining agreements from our customers to limit our liabilities and to indemnify us. However, we cannot be certain that these agreements will be adequate to protect us against potential claims relating to our contract manufacturing services. The scope of these agreements may vary from contract to contract. If we faced a claim that was not resolved by the applicable agreement, or if the customer failed to perform under its obligations, we may be inadequately protected or we may not be protected at all. Although we maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that the coverage will apply, that it will be adequate for these claims, or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. We may also be subject to claims, by our customers or others, that we committed errors during the manufacturing process. Biologics manufacturing is highly complex and new processes, in particular, can be difficult to develop and predict. Certain events could result in a contaminated product or one that did not actually perform as it was expected to perform. Although such an event may be out of our control, the customer might attempt to hold us liable for any resulting damages. We currently maintain errors and omissions insurance, but we cannot be certain that this coverage is adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain additional funding needed to develop, market and sell our potential products, we could be required to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for some of our programs or grant rights to third parties to develop and market our potential products. Our business has not historically generated the cash needed to finance our operations. We will require substantial financial resources to continue to market and sell Cialis and to conduct the time-consuming and costly research, preclinical development, clinical studies, manufacturing, regulatory, and sales and marketing activities necessary to commercialize our potential products. We may need to seek additional financing through public or private sources, including equity or debt financings, and through other alternatives, including collaborative arrangements. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses or unanticipated opportunities that require financial commitments could give rise to additional financing requirements. Financing may, however, be unavailable when we need it or may be unavailable on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing common stock or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders could be reduced. Any debt or equity securities that we issue may have rights superior to those of our common stock. We may also issue debt that has rights superior to those of the holders of our convertible subordinated debt. If we are unable to raise additional funds when we need them, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for some of our marketing and selling activities and our research and development programs and grant rights to third parties to develop and market product candidates that we would prefer to develop and market on our own. If we are required to grant such rights, the ultimate value of these product candidates to us may be reduced. We have a significant amount of debt that may adversely affect our financial condition. We have outstanding $278.7 million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes, bearing interest at 2%. The notes mature on July 1, 2023, although holders of the notes may require us to repurchase all or part of their notes, for cash, on certain specified dates, the first of which occurs in July 2010. This is a significant amount of debt that carries a substantial debt service obligation. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. 20 Table of Contents Even if we are able to meet our debt service obligations, the amount of debt we have could materially and adversely affect us in a number of ways, including by: • limiting our ability to obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and • making us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. If we fail to negotiate or maintain successful collaborative arrangements with third parties, our research, development and marketing activities may be delayed or reduced. We have entered into, and we expect to continue to enter into, collaborative arrangements with third parties who provide us with new products or product candidates, intellectual property, and/or funding. In addition, some third parties may perform research, development, regulatory compliance, manufacturing, or marketing activities relating to Cialis and some or all of our product candidates. The environment for collaborations relating to promising product candidates is extremely competitive. We may be unable to negotiate additional collaborative arrangements or, if necessary, modify our existing arrangements on acceptable terms. If we fail to secure or maintain successful collaborative arrangements, our research, development and marketing activities may be delayed or reduced. Our collaborative agreements, including with Lilly, can be terminated by our partners under certain conditions. Even if our partners continue their contributions to the collaborative arrangements, they may nevertheless determine not to actively pursue the development or commercialization of any resulting products. Disputes may arise between us and our partners as to a variety of matters, including obligations under our agreements and ownership of intellectual property rights. Also, our partners may fail to perform their obligations under the collaborative arrangements or may be slow in performing their obligations. In addition, our partners may experience financial difficulties at any time that could prevent them from having available funds to contribute to these collaborations. In these circumstances, our ability to develop and market potential products or Cialis could be severely limited. Acquisitions, mergers or investments in businesses, products or technologies could harm our business, operating results and stock price. We may acquire, merge with or invest in other businesses, products or technologies that are intended to complement our existing business. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, we have had discussions and negotiations with companies regarding business combinations or investing in these companies’ businesses, products or technologies. Our management has limited or no prior experience in assimilating acquired or merged companies. Any acquisitions or investments we complete will likely involve some or all of the following risks: • failure of new product candidates during the research and development stages; • difficulty of assimilating the new operations and personnel, products or technologies; • commercial failure of the new products; • disruption of our ongoing business; • diversion of resources; • inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • difficulty of managing our growth and information systems; 21 Table of Contents • reduction in the overall growth rate of the combined organization; • risks of entering markets in which we have little or no prior experience; and • impairment of relationships with employees or customers. In addition, future acquisitions, mergers or investments could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of cash or incurrence of debt and assumption of direct and contingent liabilities, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results or the price of our common stock. The failure to attract or retain key management and technical employees and consultants could harm our business. We are highly dependent on the efforts and abilities of our current management and key technical personnel. Our success will depend in part on retaining the services of our existing management and key personnel and attracting and retaining new highly qualified personnel. Failure to retain our existing key management and technical personnel or to attract additional highly qualified personnel could, among other things: • delay our ongoing discovery research efforts; • delay preclinical or clinical testing of our product candidates; • delay the regulatory approval process; • compromise our ability to negotiate additional collaborative arrangements; or • prevent us from successfully commercializing our product candidates. In our field, competition for qualified management and technical personnel is intense. In addition, many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater financial and other resources than we do. As a result of these factors, we may be unsuccessful in recruiting and retaining sufficient qualified personnel. Risks Related to Our Industry Rapid changes in technology and industry standards could render Cialis or our potential products unmarketable. We are engaged in a field characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological development. New drug discoveries and developments in our field and other drug discovery technologies are accelerating. Our competitors may develop technologies and products that are more effective than any we develop or that render our technology, Cialis or our potential products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, Cialis or our potential products could become unmarketable if new industry standards emerge. To be successful, we will need to enhance our product candidates and design, develop and market new product candidates that keep pace with new technological and industry developments. Our corporate compliance program can never guarantee that we are in compliance with all laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to extensive government regulation. Although we have developed and implemented a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that we or our employees, directors or agents are or will be in compliance with all laws and regulations. The interpretation of these requirements has 22 Table of Contents evolved over time and has been unpredictable. In addition, several states are considering or have recently adopted new laws addressing various aspects of our business and pharmaceutical compliance in general. If we fail to comply with any of these laws or regulations, various negative consequences could result, including the termination of clinical studies, the failure to gain regulatory approval of a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of Cialis from the market, significant fines or other penalties and costly litigation. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual violation of fraud and abuse laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to offer or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. The federal government has published regulations that identify safe harbors or exemptions for types of payment arrangements that do not violate the anti-kickback statutes. We seek to comply with the safe harbors where possible. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed, or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, including our stock price. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products could be subject to challenge, due to the broad scope of these laws, the absence of guidance in the form of regulations and court decisions addressing certain practices, and the increasing prosecutorial resources and attention being devoted to the sales practices of pharmaceutical companies by law enforcement authorities. During the last few years, several companies have paid multi-million dollar fines for alleged violation of fraud and abuse laws, and several other companies are under active investigation. If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, we could incur substantial liability. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, viruses, radioactive compounds and other hazardous materials. If an accident involving these materials were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, which liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We are also subject to numerous health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines and penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. New limitations may be imposed on our ability to market Cialis or other products. Broadcast advertising for prescription drugs has recently been the focus of attention by Congress and the media. Some general objections have been raised to marketing prescription drugs directly to consumers that impact the industry as a whole. In addition, some members of Congress, and others, have focused their attention on advertising for erectile dysfunction medications like Cialis, and have proposed placing limits on the hours when television advertisements for these products may be aired. We do not know at this time whether these or other limitations on the manner in which we advertise Cialis will be implemented. Even if legislation is not adopted, regulatory bodies or industry groups may feel pressured to impose limitations on marketing that affect the industry as a whole and/or erectile dysfunction medications in particular. A set of principles relating to advertisements to consumers was adopted in July 2005 by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of 23 Table of Contents America, a pharmaceutical industry association. The principles do not impose restrictions specifically on the advertising of erectile dysfunction medications, and we do not believe compliance with these principles will materially impair our ability to market Cialis. Future restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising of erectile dysfunction medications could impact us and our competitors; however, the relative impact on each product might be affected by other factors such as length of time on the market or current recognition of the brand. Any such restrictions might impede our ability to implement our preferred promotional strategy or strategies, which may in turn affect sales of Cialis or other potential products that we market. Our sales may be affected by coverage and reimbursement decisions of third-party payors. Sales of Cialis and any new products we develop and commercialize may be affected by the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors, such as state and federal governments, under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. Because of the size of the patient population covered by managed care organizations, marketing of pharmaceuticals to them and the pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs) that serve many of these organizations is an important aspect of our business. Third-party payors and PBMs reevaluate their drug benefit plans and drug formularies from time to time, and continued access is not assured. If reimbursement levels for Cialis change adversely or if we fail to obtain reimbursement for our potential products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. This could result in lower product sales. In October 2005, Congress passed a law that prohibits reimbursement for prescription drugs treating erectile dysfunction under the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Since coverage of erectile dysfunction drugs is not currently available under Medicare, and since several major states had previously suspended coverage for erectile dysfunction drugs under their Medicaid programs, we believe that the impact of this law on our business is not material. Nonetheless, the law eliminates the potential for some patients who could not otherwise afford these medications to receive coverage for them under these federal government programs. Available Information We were incorporated in the state of Delaware in September 1989. We reincorporated in Washington State in September 2005. The internet address of our corporate website is www.icos.com. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports available free of charge through our internet website. In addition, we will voluntarily provide paper copies of such filings, free of charge, upon request. The ICOS Corporation Code of Conduct, which is our written Code of Ethics under Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, is also available on our corporate website. 