Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s businesses, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that the Company considers material. General Economic Factors and Political Conditions The Company’s performance is affected by general economic factors and political conditions that are beyond its control. These factors include, among other factors, recession, inflation, deflation, housing markets, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, fuel and energy costs, material input costs, foreign currency translation, labor cost inflation, interest rates, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities, conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that influence consumer spending. Unfavorable economic conditions in the United States adversely affected the Company’s performance in 2008 and 2009 and could continue to adversely affect the Company’s performance in the future. Unstable economic and political conditions, civil unrest and political activism, particularly in Asia, could adversely impact the Company’s businesses. Liquidity The Company has substantial indebtedness and depends upon its bank lenders to finance its liquidity needs. In June 2010, the Company entered into a new $125.0 million secured credit agreement (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) and a $40.0 million second lien credit agreement (the “Term Loan”). Amounts loaned under these agreements bear interest at floating rates. Therefore, an increase in interest rates would adversely affect the Company’s performance. To the extent that the Company’s access to credit was to be restricted because of its own performance, its bank lenders’ performances, or conditions in the markets generally, the Company would not be able to operate normally. Competition The markets for the Company’s products are intensely competitive and the Company competes with numerous other suppliers, some of which are larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources or employ brands that are more established, have greater consumer recognition or are more favorably perceived by consumers or retailers than the Company’s brands. The Company believes it possesses certain competitive advantages; however, many factors could erode these competitive advantages or prevent their strengthening. Accordingly, future operating results will depend on the Company’s ability to protect or enhance its competitive advantages. Customers The Company’s wholesale customers include mass merchants, specialty stores, national chains, department stores, warehouse clubs, supermarkets, off-price retailers, and Internet retailers. Unanticipated changes in purchasing and other practices by its customers, including customers’ pricing and other requirements, could adversely affect the Company. In its e-commerce and catalog businesses, the Company sells to individual consumers nationwide. Many of the Company’s wholesale customers are significantly larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources and also purchase goods directly from vendors in Asia and elsewhere. Decisions by large customers to increase their purchases directly from overseas vendors could have a materially adverse affect on the Company. Significant changes or financial difficulties, including consolidations of ownership, restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations or other events that affect retailers could result in fewer stores selling the Company’s products, the Company having to rely on a smaller group of customers, an increase in the risk of extending credit to these customers or limitations on the Company’s ability to collect amounts due from these customers. In 2010, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (including Sam’s Club) accounted for 15% of the Company’s sales. A material reduction in purchases by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results. In addition, pressures by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. that would cause the Company to materially reduce the price of the Company’s products could result in reductions of the Company’s operating margin. 6 Supply Chain The Company sources its products from suppliers located principally in Asia and, to a lesser extent, in Europe and in the United States. The Company’s Asia vendors are located primarily in the People’s Republic of China. Interruption of supply from any of the Company’s suppliers, or the loss of one or more key vendors, could have a negative effect on the Company’s business and operating results. Changes in currency exchange rates might negatively affect the profitability and business prospects of the Company and its overseas vendors. The Company does not have access to its vendors’ financial information and is unable to assess its vendors’ financial conditions including their liquidity. The Company is subject to risks and uncertainties associated with economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including but not limited to, foreign government regulations, taxes, import and export duties and quotas, anti-dumping regulations, incidents and fears involving security, terrorism and wars, political unrest and other restrictions on trade and travel. The Company imports its products for delivery to its distribution centers as well as arranges for its customers to import goods to which title has passed overseas. For purchases that are to be delivered to its distribution centers, the Company arranges for transportation, primarily by sea, from ports in Asia and Europe to ports in the United States, principally New York/Newark/Elizabeth and Los Angeles/Long Beach. Accordingly, the Company is subject to risks incidental to such transportation. These risks include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel costs, the availability of ships, increased security restrictions, work stoppages and carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet the Company’s shipping needs. Transportation disruptions and increased transportation costs could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company delivers its products to its customers or makes such products available for customer pickup from its distribution centers. Prolonged domestic transportation disruptions, as well as workforce or systems issues related to the Company’s distribution centers, could have a negative affect on the Company’s ability to deliver goods to its customers. Intellectual Property Significant portions of the Company’s business are dependent on trade names, trademarks and patents, some of which are licensed from third-parties. Several of these license agreements are subject to termination by the licensor. The loss of certain licenses or a material increase in the royalties the Company pays under such licenses upon renewal could result in a reduction of the Company’s operating margin. Regulatory The Company is subject in the ordinary course of its business, in the United States and elsewhere, to many statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations that if violated by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s operations could be conducted by its employees, contractors, representatives, or agents in ways which violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-bribery laws. The marketing of certain of the Company’s consumer products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims or recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, by state regulatory authorities or through private causes of action. Any defects in products the Company markets could harm the Company’s credibility, adversely affect its relationship with its customers and decrease market acceptance of the Company’s products and the strength of the brand names under which the Company markets such products. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of the Company’s insurance coverage and could materially damage the Company’s business and its financial condition. The Company is subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company cannot assure that it will not find material weaknesses in the future or that the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm will conclude that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is operating effectively. The Company is subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, 7 pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolutions of these issues would harm the Company’s business. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for the Company’s products on the Internet and increase the Company’s cost of doing business. Technology The Company relies on several different information technology systems for the operation of its principal business functions, including the Company’s enterprise, warehouse management, inventory forecast and re-ordering and call center systems. In the case of the Company’s inventory forecast and re-ordering system, most of the Company’s orders are received directly through electronic connections with the Company’s largest customers. The failure of any one of these systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company has made significant efforts to secure its computer network. However, the Company’s computer network could be compromised and confidential information such as customer credit card information could be misappropriated. This could lead to adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third-parties for damages which could adversely impact profits. In addition, although the Company’s systems and procedures comply with Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, failure by the Company to maintain compliance with the PCI requirements or rectify a security issue could result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s ability to accept credit cards. Personnel The Company’s success depends on its ability to identify, hire and retain skilled personnel. The Company’s industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with successful track records. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so. If Jeffrey Siegel, the Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, was no longer employed by the Company, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 8 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 