Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s businesses, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that the Company considers material. General Economic Factors and Political Conditions The Company’s performance is affected by general economic factors, strength of retail economies and political conditions that are beyond its control. Retail economies are impacted by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which in turn, is effected by general economic factors. These general economic factors include, among other factors, recession, inflation, deflation, housing markets, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, fuel and energy costs, material input costs, foreign currency translation, labor cost inflation, interest rates, government policies including tax policies and social compliance standards, unemployment trends, the impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities, conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that influence consumer spending. Unfavorable economic conditions in the United States adversely affected the Company’s performance in 2008 and 2009 and global economic conditions could adversely affect the Company’s performance in the future. Unstable economic and political conditions, civil unrest and political activism, particularly in Asia, could adversely impact the Company’s businesses. Any substantial deterioration in general economic conditions could also adversely affect consumer spending patterns which tend to be highly correlated with the levels of disposable income of consumers. If the global economy experiences significant disruptions or a slowdown, the Company’s business could be negatively impacted by reduced demand for its products. The Company conducts business outside of the United States through subsidiaries, affiliates and joint ventures. These entities have operations in the United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, Brazil, Hong Kong and China; therefore, the Company is subject to increases and decreases in its investments resulting from the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These entities also bear risks similar to those risks of the Company; however, there are specific additional risks related to these organizations such as the failure of the Company’s partners or other investors to meet their obligations and higher credit and liquidity risks related to thinly capitalized entities. Failure of these entities or the Company’s vendors to adhere to required regulatory or other standards, including social compliance standards, can impact the Company’s reputation and adversely impact the Company’s business. 6 Table of Contents The Company has achieved growth through investments and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to successfully integrate these businesses or identify and integrate future acquisitions into its existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. Additionally, the failure of these businesses to achieve expected results, diversion of the Company’s management’s attention and failure to retain key personnel at these businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Liquidity The Company has substantial indebtedness and depends upon its bank lenders to finance its liquidity needs. In October 2011, the Company entered into a new $150.0 million secured credit agreement (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) and amended its $40.0 million second lien credit agreement (the “Term Loan”). Amounts loaned under these agreements bear interest at floating rates. An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the Company’s profitability. To the extent that the Company’s access to credit was to be restricted because of its own performance, its bank lenders’ performances or conditions in the capital markets generally, the Company would not be able to operate normally. Competition The markets for the Company’s products are intensely competitive. The Company competes with many other suppliers, some of which are larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources or employ brands that are more established, have greater consumer recognition or are more favorably perceived by consumers or retailers than the Company’s brands. Customers The Company’s wholesale customers include mass merchants, specialty stores, national chains, department stores, warehouse clubs, supermarkets, off-price retailers and Internet retailers. Unanticipated changes in purchasing and other practices by the Company’s customers, including a customer’s pricing and payment terms, inventory destocking, limitations on shelf space, use of private label brands and other practices, could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires the Company to shorten its lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the Company to carry additional inventories. The Company’s annual earnings and cash flows also depend to a great extent on the results of operations in the latter half of the year due to the seasonality of its sales. The Company’s success and sales growth is also dependent on its evaluation of consumer preferences and changing trends. The Company also sells a limited quantity of the Company’s products to individual consumers and smaller retailers through its own Internet sites. Many of the Company’s wholesale customers are significantly larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources and also purchase goods directly from vendors in Asia and elsewhere. Decisions by large customers to increase their purchases directly from overseas vendors could have a materially adverse affect on the Company. Significant changes or financial difficulties, including consolidations of ownership, restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations or other events that affect retailers, could result in fewer stores selling the Company’s products, the Company having to rely on a smaller group of customers, an increase in the risk of extending credit to these customers or limitations on the Company’s ability to collect amounts due from these customers. Although the Company has long-established relationships with many of its customers, the Company does not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases. Purchases by the Company’s customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. As a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond the Company’s control or change other terms of their business relationship with the Company. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices by customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 7 Table of Contents In 2011, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (including Sam’s Club and Asda Superstore) accounted for 15% of the Company’s net sales. A material reduction in purchases by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results. In addition, pressures by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. that would cause the Company to materially reduce the price of the Company’s products could result in reductions of the Company’s operating margin. The concentration of the Company’s business with Wal-Mart extends to its international businesses, including Vasconia in Mexico and its strategic alliance in Canada, due to the market presence of Wal-Mart in these foreign countries. Supply Chain The Company sources its products from suppliers located in Asia, Europe and the United States. The Company’s Asia vendors are located primarily in the People’s Republic of China, which subjects the Company to various risks within the region including regulatory, political, economic and foreign currency changes. The Company’s ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products efficiently will impact its success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. The Company’s sourcing operations and its vendors are impacted by labor costs in China. Labor historically has been readily available at relatively low cost as compared to labor costs in North America. However, as China is experiencing rapid social, political and economic changes, labor costs have risen in some regions and there can be no assurance that labor will continue to be available to the Company in China at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations in China. Interruption of supplies from any of the Company’s vendors, or the loss of one or more key vendors, could have a negative effect on the Company’s business and operating results. Changes in currency exchange rates might negatively affect the profitability and business prospects of the Company and its overseas vendors. The Company does not have access to its vendors’ financial information and is unable to assess its vendors’ financial conditions including their liquidity. The Company is subject to risks and uncertainties associated with economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including but not limited to, foreign government regulations, taxes including value-added taxes, import and export duties and quotas, anti-dumping regulations, incidents and fears involving security, terrorism and wars, political unrest and other restrictions on trade and travel. The Company imports its products for delivery to its distribution centers, as well as arranges for its customers to import goods to which title has passed overseas or at port of entry. For purchases that are to be delivered to its distribution centers, the Company arranges for transportation, primarily by sea, from ports in Asia and Europe to ports in the United States, principally New York/Newark/Elizabeth and Los Angeles/Long Beach. Accordingly, the Company is subject to risks incidental to such transportation. These risks include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel costs, the availability of ships, increased security restrictions, work stoppages and carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet the Company’s shipping needs. Transportation disruptions and increased transportation costs could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company delivers its products to its customers or makes such products available for customer pickup from its distribution centers. Prolonged domestic transportation disruptions, as well as workforce or systems issues related to the Company’s distribution centers, could have a negative effect on the Company’s ability to deliver goods to its customers. Intellectual Property Significant portions of the Company’s business are dependent on trade names, trademarks and patents, some of which are licensed from third-parties. Several of these license agreements are subject to termination by the licensor. The loss of certain licenses or a material increase in the royalty rates the Company pays under such licenses upon renewal could result in a reduction of the Company’s operating margin. 8 Table of Contents Regulatory The Company is subject in the ordinary course of its business, in the United States and elsewhere, to many statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations that if violated by the Company or its affiliates, partners or vendors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The marketing of certain of the Company’s consumer products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims or recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, by other regulatory authorities or through private causes of action. Any defects in products the Company markets could harm the Company’s credibility, adversely affect its relationship with its customers and decrease market acceptance of the Company’s products and the strength of the brand names under which the Company markets such products. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of the Company’s insurance coverage and could materially damage the Company’s business and its financial condition. The Company is subject to significant regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Company cannot assure strict adherence to these regulations nor that it will not find material weaknesses in the future or that the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm will conclude that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is operating effectively. The Company is subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolutions of these issues would harm the Company’s business. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for the Company’s products on the Internet and increase the Company’s cost of doing business. Technology The Company relies on many information technology systems for the operation of its principal business functions, including the Company’s enterprise, warehouse management, inventory forecast and re-ordering and call center systems. In the case of the Company’s inventory forecast and re-ordering system, most of the Company’s orders are received directly through electronic connections with the Company’s largest customers. The failure of any of these systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. To keep pace within a competitive retail environment, the Company uses and will continue to evaluate new technologies to improve the efficiency of designing new innovative products. The success of certain product categories can be dependent upon the creation and launch of new innovative products in a competitive marketplace. Availability of information on the Internet and, in particular, on social media websites subjects the Company to reputational risks related to its brands and the perceived quality of its products. The Company has made significant efforts to secure its computer network to mitigate the risk of possible cyber attacks. However, the Company’s computer network could be compromised and confidential information such as customer credit card information could be misappropriated. This could lead to adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third-parties for damages which could adversely impact profits. In addition, although the Company’s systems and procedures comply with Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, failure by the Company to maintain compliance with the PCI requirements or rectify a security issue could result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s ability to accept credit cards. Personnel The Company’s success depends on its ability to identify, hire and retain skilled personnel. The Company’s industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with successful track records. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so. 9 Table of Contents Increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the Company’s financial results and cash flows. The Company self insures a substantial portion of the costs of employee healthcare and workers compensation. This could result in higher volatility in the Company’s earnings and exposes the Company to higher financial risks. Healthcare costs in the United States and other countries have risen significantly over the past several years and increases may continue in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 