Risk Factors The Company’s business, operations, and financial condition are subject to various risks. Some of these risks are described below. This section does not describe all risks that may be applicable to the Company, the Company’s industry, or the Company’s business, and it is intended only as a summary of certain material risk factors. The Company must successfully anticipate changing consumer preferences and buying trends and manage its product line and inventory commensurate with customer demand. The Company’s success depends upon its ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and customer demands in a timely manner. Consumer preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and may change between selling seasons. The Company must make decisions as to design, development, expansion and production of new and existing product lines. If the Company misjudges either the market for its products, the purchasing patterns of the end consumer, or the appeal of the design, functionality or variety of its product lines, the Company’s sales may decline significantly, and it may be required to mark down certain products to sell the resulting excess inventory or sell such inventory through the Company’s factory and outlet stores, or other liquidation channels, at prices which can be significantly lower than the Company’s normal wholesale prices, each of which would harm its business and operating results. In addition, the Company must manage its inventory effectively and commensurate with customer demand. A substantial portion of the Company’s inventory is sourced from vendors located outside the United States. The Company generally commits to purchasing products before it receives firm orders from its retail customers and frequently before trends are known. The extended lead times for many of the Company’s purchases, as well as the development time for design and deployment of new products, may make it difficult for the Company to respond rapidly to new or changing trends. In addition, the seasonal nature of the Company’s business requires it to carry a significant amount of inventory prior to the year-end holiday selling season. As a result, the Company is vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to misjudgments in the selection and timing of product purchases. If the Company does not accurately predict its customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of its products, the Company’s inventory levels may not be appropriate, and its business and operating results may be adversely impacted. The Company faces intense competition from companies with similar brands or products and from companies in the retail industry. The markets for Food Preparation, Tabletop, and Home Décor products are highly competitive and include numerous domestic and foreign competitors, some of which are larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources than the Company, and may have more established brand names in some or all of the markets the Company serves. The primary competitive factors in selling such products to retailers are consumer brand name recognition, quality, packaging, breadth of product line, distribution capability, prompt delivery in response to retail customers’ order requirements, and ultimate price to the consumer. The competitive challenges facing the Company include: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands better than the Company’s competitors; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and achieving end consumer perception of value; • effectively marketing and competitively pricing the Company’s products to consumers in diverse market segments and price levels; and • developing innovative, high-quality products in designs and styles that appeal to consumers of varying groups, tastes and price level preferences, and in ways that favorably distinguishes the Company from its competitors. 10 In addition, the Company operates its factory and outlet store, catalog and Internet businesses under highly competitive conditions. The Company has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and Internet and mail order retailers. Competition is characterized by many factors, including product assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. If the Company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In light of the many competitive challenges facing the Company, the Company may not be able to compete successfully. Increased competition could adversely affect the Company’s sales, operating results and business, by forcing the Company to lower its prices or sell fewer units, which could reduce the Company’s gross profit and net income. The Company’s business depends, in part, on factors affecting consumer spending that are out of the Company’s control. The Company’s business depends on consumer demand for its products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, recession and inflation, incidents and fears relating to national security, terrorism and war, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters, inclement weather, consumer debt, unemployment rates, interest rates, sales tax rates, fuel and energy prices, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, generally. Adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for the Company’s products, change the mix of products the Company sells to a different mix with a lower average gross margin, slow inventory turnover and result in greater markdowns on inventory, thus reducing the Company’s sales and harming its business and operating results. The Company depends on key vendors for timely and effective sourcing of its products, and the Company is subject to various risks and uncertainties that may affect its vendors’ ability to produce quality merchandise. The Company sources a significant majority of its products from third-party suppliers with which the Company may have in many cases established long-term relationships. The Company’s performance depends on its ability to have its products manufactured to the Company’s designs and specifications in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. The Company has no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to products, and in general, vendors may discontinue selling to the Company at any time. The Company may not be able to acquire its products in sufficient quantities, with the quality assurance that the Company requires, and on terms acceptable to the Company. The Company primarily sources its products from approximately 430 suppliers located mainly in the People’s Republic of China, and to a lesser extent in Hong Kong, the United States, Taiwan, Japan, India, Thailand, Italy, Indonesia, Korea, Vietnam, Germany, Czech Republic, Malaysia, Portugal, Colombia, Lithuania, Turkey, and Mexico. The Company’s three largest suppliers in China provided the Company with approximately 40% of the products it distributed in 2007 and 2006. This concentration of sourcing is a risk to the Company’s business. Furthermore, because the Company’s product lines cover thousands of products, many products are produced for the Company by only one or two manufacturers. An interruption of supply from any of these manufacturers could also have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to fill orders on a timely basis. 11 As a result, an interruption of supply from any of the Company’s suppliers, or the loss of one or more key vendors, could have a negative effect on the Company’s business and operating results because the Company would be missing products that could be important to its assortment or to coordinated branded product lines, unless and until alternative supply arrangements are secured. The Company may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality and/or more expensive than those the Company currently purchases. Replacement of manufacturing sources would require long lead-times to assure the vendors’ capability to manufacture to the Company’s designs and specifications, maintain quality control and achieve the production levels the Company requires. In addition, some of the Company’s customers demand a certain standard of shipping fulfillment (usually as a percentage of orders placed) and any disruption in the manufacturing of its products could result in the Company’s failure to meet such standards. The Company is also subject to certain risks, including risks relating to the availability of raw materials, labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather, natural disasters, and general economic and political conditions, that might limit the Company’s vendors ability to provide it with quality merchandise on a timely basis. For these or other reasons, one or more of the Company’s vendors might not adhere to the Company’s quality control standards, and the Company might not identify the deficiency before products are shipped to its retail customers. The Company’s vendors failure to manufacture or ship quality merchandise in a timely and efficient manner could damage its reputation and that of brands offered by the Company, and could lead to a loss or reduction in orders by the Company’s retail customers and an increase in product liability claims or litigation. Because most of the Company’s vendors are located in foreign countries, the Company is subject to a variety of additional risks and uncertainties. The Company’s dependence on foreign vendors means, in part, that the Company may be affected by declines in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to other foreign currencies. Although substantially all of the Company’s foreign purchases of products are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates might negatively affect the profitability and business prospects of the Company’s foreign vendors. This, in turn, might cause such foreign vendors to demand higher prices for products, hold up shipments to the Company, or discontinue selling to the Company, any of which could ultimately reduce the Company’s sales or increase its costs. The Company is also subject to other risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries. These risks and uncertainties include import duties and quotas, concerns over anti-dumping, work stoppages, economic uncertainties (including inflation), foreign government regulations, incidents and fears involving security, terrorism and wars, political unrest and other trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict whether any of the countries in which its products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments or the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Any event causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign vendors, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or increased tariffs or quotas, or both, with respect to products for the home could increase the cost or reduce the supply of products available to the Company and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, some or all of the Company’s foreign vendors’ operations may be adversely affected by political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of the Company’s foreign vendors will not adhere to its compliance standards such as fair labor practices and prohibitions on child labor. Such circumstances might create an unfavorable impression of the Company’s sourcing practices or the practices of some of its vendors that could harm the Company’s image. Additionally, certain of the Company’s major retail customers, including Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., routinely inspect its suppliers’ facilities to determine their compliance with applicable labor laws. A determination by such customers that one or more of the Company’s suppliers violate such standards could jeopardize the Company’s sales to such customers if the Company or the suppliers cannot effectively remedy any such violation in a timely manner. If any of these occur, the Company could lose sales, customer goodwill and favorable brand recognition, which could negatively affect the Company’s business and operating results. 12 High costs of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. Significant variations in the costs and availability of raw materials and energy may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s vendors purchase significant amounts of metals and plastics to manufacture the Company’s products. They also purchase significant amounts of electricity to supply the energy required in their production processes. The rising cost of fuel may also increase the Company’s transportation costs. The cost of these raw materials and energy, in the aggregate, represents a significant portion of the Company’s operating expenses. The Company’s results of operations have been and could in the future be significantly affected by increases in these costs. Price increases increase the Company’s working capital needs and, accordingly, can adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and cash flow. Additionally, higher fuel prices may decrease the number of consumer shopping trips and lower demand for merchandise sold through the Company’s factory and outlet stores. The Company must successfully manage the complexities associated with a multi-channel and multi-brand business. The Company’s business requires the development, marketing and production of a wide variety of products in its three product categories: Food Preparation, Tabletop and Home Décor. Within each of these categories, it is necessary to market several full lines of branded products targeting different price and prestige levels, and each of these branded lines must contain an assortment of products and accessories with matched designs and packaging which are often sold as sets. The Company’s different product lines are sold under a variety of brand names, some of which are owned and some of which are licensed. Many of the Company’s products are inherently of the type that consumers prefer to purchase as part of a branded, matched line. Accordingly, both for marketing reasons and the requirements of the Company’s license agreements, the Company must maintain breadth of product lines and it must devote significant resources to developing and marketing new designs for the Company’s product lines. The inability to maintain the breadth of the Company’s product lines—whether due to vendor difficulties, design issues, retail orders for less than all of the products in a line, or other problems—could result in competitive disadvantages as well as the potential loss of valuable license arrangements. In addition, the Company sells its products through several different distribution channels (mass merchants, specialty stores, national chains, department stores, warehouse clubs, home centers, supermarkets, off-price retailers, factory and outlet stores, catalogs and over the Internet) and the Company must manage the selective deployment of branded lines within these channels so as to achieve maximum revenue and profitability. Failure to properly align brands and product lines to the price and prestige levels associated with particular channels of distribution could result in product line failures, damage to the Company’s reputation, and lost sales and profits. The Company has limited experience operating in the Tabletop category, which is the Company’s second largest product category, and limited experience in the Home Décor product category. The Company acquired from Pfaltzgraff, Salton, Syratech and Lenox certain brands and product lines in the Tabletop and Home Décor product categories in which the Company has limited experience. The Company may encounter delays or difficulties in transitioning these product lines and the related brands and may not achieve the expected growth or cost savings. In particular, sales in the Tabletop and Home Décor product categories tend to rely significantly more on the appeal to consumers of the aesthetic design of the products than the Company’s other products lines, the sales of which tend to depend more upon the product’s functionality. Additionally, under their previous ownership, the Pfaltzgraff, Salton, Syratech and Lenox businesses suffered material operating losses. The Company cannot assure that these product categories will be profitable. Many of the Company’s leading product lines are manufactured under licensed trademarks and any failure to retain such licenses on acceptable terms may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company promotes and markets some of its most successful product lines under trademarks the Company licenses from third-parties. Several of these license agreements are subject to termination by the licensor. 13 The Company’s license agreement with Whirlpool Corporation allows it to design, manufacture and market an extensive range of food preparation products under the KitchenAid® brand name. Whirlpool Corporation may terminate this license for cause if the Company is in default or upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company. In addition, Whirlpool Corporation may terminate the agreement if, based on certain statistical parameters, a customer survey conducted by it shows that customers are dissatisfied with the products the Company markets under the license. Products marketed under the KitchenAid® name accounted for a substantial portion of the Company’s revenues in 2007. The Company may not be successful in maintaining or renewing the KitchenAid® license, which has significant commercial value to the Company, on terms that are acceptable to the Company or at all. The loss of the KitchenAid® license, or an increase in the royalties the Company pays under such license upon renewal, could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations. In addition, any of the licensors of the Company’s trade names may encounter problems that would potentially diminish the prestige of the licensed trade names. In turn, this could negatively reflect on the Company’s line of products that are marketed under the applicable trade name. In the event that this occurs with respect to one of the Company’s leading product lines, the Company’s sales and financial results may be adversely affected. In addition, certain of the Company’s licenses have minimum sales requirements. If the Company is unable to achieve the minimum sales requirements under these licenses, the Company may incur a loss related to these licenses. If the Company fails to adequately protect or enforce its intellectual property rights, competitors may produce and market products similar to the Company’s. In addition, the Company may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims by third parties. The success of the Company’s products is inherently dependent on new and original designs that appeal to consumer tastes and trends at various price and prestige levels. The Company’s trademarks, service marks, patents, trade dress rights, trade secrets and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to the Company’s success. Although the Company attempts to protect its proprietary properties through a combination of trademark, patent and trade secret laws and non-disclosure agreements, these laws and agreements may be insufficient. Although the Company has trademarks and certain patents issued or licensed to it for its products, the Company may not always be able to successfully protect or enforce its trademarks and patents against competitors or against challenges by others. The Company sources substantially all of its products from foreign vendors, and the ability to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights in foreign countries may be far more difficult than in the United States. Many foreign jurisdictions provide less legal protection of intellectual property rights than the United States and it is difficult to even detect infringing products in such jurisdictions until they are already in widespread distribution. The costs of enforcing the Company’s intellectual property may adversely affect its operating results. In addition, the Company may be subject to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, which could cause it to incur significant expenses or prevent the Company from selling its products. A successful claim of trademark, patent or other intellectual property infringement against the Company could adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability, in some cases materially. Others may claim that the Company’s proprietary or licensed products are infringing their intellectual property rights, and the Company’s products may infringe those intellectual property rights. The Company may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its products. If someone claims that the Company’s products infringe their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The Company also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions preventing it from manufacturing, selling or using some aspect of the Company’s products in the event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and profitability. 14 The Company has a single customer that accounted for 21% of its net sales in 2007. The Company distributes its products through a diverse nationwide base of retail customers including mass merchants, specialty stores, national chains, department stores, warehouse clubs, home centers, supermarkets and off-price retailers, as well as through other channels of distribution, including its factory and outlet store, catalog and Internet businesses. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (including Sam’s Club) accounted for 21%, 17% and 20% of the Company’s net sales, respectively. Any material reduction of product orders by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. could have significant adverse effects on the Company’s business and operating results, including the loss of predictability and volume production efficiencies associated with such a large customer. In addition, any pressure by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. to reduce the price of the Company’s products could result in the reduction of the Company’s operating margin. If the Company’s products are found to be defective, the Company’s credibility and that of its brands may be harmed, market acceptance of the Company’s products may decrease and the Company may be exposed to liability in excess of its product liability insurance coverage. The marketing of certain of the Company’s consumer products, such as tabletop cookware, involve an inherent risk of product liability claims or recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, by state regulatory authorities or through private causes of action. Any defects in products the Company markets could harm the Company’s credibility, adversely affect its relationship with its customers and decrease market acceptance of the Company’s products and the strength of the brand names under which the Company markets such products. In addition, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of the Company’s insurance coverage under the terms of the Company’s policies. In the event that the Company is held liable for a product liability claim for which it is not insured, or for damages exceeding the limits of the Company’s insurance coverage, such claim could materially damage the Company’s business and its financial condition. The Company’s ability to deliver products to its customers in a timely manner and to satisfy its customers’ fulfillment standards is subject to several factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control. Retailers place great emphasis on timely delivery of the Company’s products for specific selling seasons and to fulfill consumer demand throughout the year. The Company cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to retailers. Vendor production delays, difficulties encountered in shipping from overseas as well as customs clearance are on-going risks of the Company’s business. The Company also relies upon third-party carriers for its product shipments from the Company’s warehouse facilities to customers, and it relies on the shipping arrangements the Company’s suppliers have made in the case of products shipped directly to retailers from the supplier. Accordingly, the Company is subject to risks, including labor disputes such as the West Coast port strike of 2002, union organizing activity, inclement weather, natural disasters, possible acts of terrorism, availability of shipping containers and increased security restrictions, associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet the Company’s shipping needs. Failure to deliver products in a timely and effective manner to retailers could damage the Company’s reputation and brands and result in a loss of customers or reduced orders. In addition, fuel costs have increased substantially, which will likely result in increased shipping expenses. Increased transportation costs and any disruption in the Company’s distribution process, especially during the second half of the year, which is the Company’s busiest selling period, could adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. The restructuring of the Company’s direct-to-consumer segment may not be successful. The Company’s direct-to-consumer segment has not been profitable in recent years. In 2006, the Company restructured the management of its direct-to-consumer segment and in December 2007, the Company commenced a plan to close 27 underperforming Farberware® outlet stores and 3 underperforming Pfaltzgraff® factory stores. The Company continues to evaluate its factory and outlet store operations and will continue to close underperforming stores and may introduce new store formats. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts will result in the profitability of the direct-to-consumer segment. 15 Loss of key employees may negatively impact the Company’s success. The Company’s success depends on its ability to identify, hire and retain skilled personnel. The Company’s industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with successful track records. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so. If Jeffrey Siegel, the Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, were to leave the Company, it would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s customers’ internal efforts to design and manufacture products may compete with similar products of the Company. Some of the Company’s existing and potential customers continuously evaluate whether to design and manufacture their own products or purchase them directly from outside vendors and distribute them under their own brand names. Although, based on the Company’s past experience, such products usually target the lower price point portion of the market, if any of the Company’s customers or potential customers pursue such options it may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s corporate compliance program cannot assure that it will be in complete compliance with all potentially applicable regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a publicly traded company, the Company is subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In connection with the Company’s and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, neither the Company nor its independent registered public accounting firm identified any deficiencies in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that constituted a “material weakness” as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. The Company cannot assure that it will not find material weaknesses in the future or that the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm will then conclude that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is operating effectively. The Company experiences business risks as a result of the Company’s Internet business. The Company competes with Internet businesses that handle similar lines of merchandise. These competitors have certain advantages, including the inapplicability of sales tax and the absence of retail real estate and related costs. As a result, increased Internet sales by the Company’s competitors could result in increased price competition and decreased margins adversely affecting the Company’s factory and outlet stores, catalog and Internet businesses as well as the Company’s wholesale business. The Company’s Internet operations are subject to numerous risks, including reliance on third-party hosting and computer software and hardware providers and online security breaches and/or credit card fraud. The Company’s inability to effectively address these risks and any other risks that it faces in connection with its Internet business could adversely affect the profitability of the Company’s Internet business. The Company may not be able to successfully identify, manage or integrate future acquisitions. Since 1995 the Company has completed thirteen acquisitions. Although the Company has grown significantly through acquisitions and intends to continue to pursue additional acquisitions in the future, the Company may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or, if it does, it may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business effectively and profitably into the Company’s existing operations. Integration of an acquired business could disrupt the Company’s business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. Furthermore, failure to successfully integrate any acquisition may cause significant operating inefficiencies and could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and e-commerce industry standards. Technology in the e-commerce industry changes rapidly. The Company may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and e-commerce industry standards. These changes and the emergence of new e-commerce industry standards and practices could render the Company’s existing websites obsolete. 16 Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving and unfavorable changes could harm the Company’s business. The Company is subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolutions of these issues would harm the Company’s business. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for the Company’s products on the Internet and increase the Company’s cost of doing business. The Company’s business is subject to technological risks. The Company relies on several different information technology systems for the operation of its principal business functions, including the Company’s enterprise, warehouse management, inventory and re-ordering, point of sale and call center systems. In the case of the Company’s inventory forecast and re-ordering system, most of the Company’s orders are received directly through electronic connections with the Company’s largest customers. The failure of any one of these systems or the integration of any one of these systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company’s business may be adversely affected if the Company’s network security is compromised. The Company has made significant efforts to secure its computer network. However, the Company’s computer network could be compromised and confidential information such as customer credit card information could be misappropriated. This could lead to adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits, or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages which could impact profits. Although, the Company has upgraded its systems and procedures to meet the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, failure by the Company to maintain compliance with the PCI security requirements or rectify a security issue may result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s ability to accept payment cards. Risks associated with indebtedness. The Company has substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s total indebtedness was $143.7 million, including $68.7 million under its $150 million secured credit facility, with an accordion feature for an additional $50 million, which expires in April 2011 (the “Credit Facility”) and $75 million of 4.75% Convertible Notes due 2011 (the “Notes”). Borrowings under the Credit Facility are secured by all of the assets of the Company. Under the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company is required to satisfy certain financial covenants, including covenants providing limitations on indebtedness, sale of assets and capital expenditures, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Increased financial leverage resulting from borrowings under the Credit Facility or a decline in earnings could have certain material adverse effects on the Company, including, but not limited to the following: (i) the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing in the future for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, and general corporate or other purposes could be impaired, or any such financing may not be available on terms favorable to the Company; (ii) a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flows could be required for debt service and, as a result, might not be available for its operations or other purposes; (iii) any substantial decrease in net operating cash flows could make it difficult for the Company to meet its debt service requirements or force the Company to modify its operations or sell assets; (iv) the Company’s ability to withstand competitive pressures may be decreased; and (v) the Company’s level of indebtedness may make the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns, and reduce its flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. The Company’s ability to repay expected borrowings under its Credit Facility and the Notes, and to meet its other debt or contractual obligations (including compliance with applicable financial covenants) will depend upon the Company’s future performance and its cash flows from operations, both of which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other known and unknown risks and uncertainties, certain of which are beyond the Company’s control. 17 The Company’s quarterly results of operations might fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including ordering patterns of the Company’s customers and the seasonality of the Company’s business. The Company’s quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, depending upon a variety of factors, including, but not limited to the ordering patterns and timing of promotions of the Company’s major retail customers, which may differ significantly from period to period or from the Company’s original forecasts. A significant portion of the Company’s revenues and net earnings are realized during the second half of the calendar year, as order volume from the Company’s retail customer base reaches its peak as the Company’s customers increase their inventories for the end of year holiday season. If, for any reason, the Company were to realize significantly lower-than-expected sales during the September through December selling season, the Company’s business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 18 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 