Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s businesses, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation could be significantly affected by the risk below or additional risks not presently known to the Company or by risks that the Company presently deems immaterial such as changes in the economy, disruptions due to terrorist activity or manmade or natural disasters, or changes in law or accounting standards. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that the Company considers material. The Company has substantial indebtedness and is highly seasonal. The Company has substantial indebtedness and depends upon its bank loan facilities to finance its liquidity needs. In addition the Company’s business is seasonal and therefore, its borrowing needs fluctuate. The Company’s loan agreements have financial maintenance covenants which, if not maintained, could result in default and the 6 Table of Contents acceleration of the Company’s indebtedness. The Company’s loan agreements also contain other restrictions, including limitations on acquisitions and indebtedness, that could restrict the Company in operating its business, including execution of its strategic plan. In January 2014, the Company entered into a Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement which provides for, among other things, an extension of the maturity of the $175.0 million Revolving Credit Facility (defined below) to January 11, 2019 and a new Term Loan of $50.0 million. The new Term Loan has mandatory amortization and an excess cash flow requirement, as defined. The Company’s business may be materially affected by market conditions and by global and economic conditions and other factors beyond its control. The Company’s performance is affected by general economic factors, the strength of retail economies and political conditions that are beyond its control. Retail economies are impacted by factors such as consumer demand and the condition of the retail industry, which in turn, is effected by general economic factors. These general economic factors include, among other factors: • Recession, inflation, deflation, unemployment and other factors adversely affecting consumer spending patterns generally; • Conditions affecting the retail environment for the home and other matters that influence consumer spending in the home retail industry specifically; • Housing markets; • Consumer credit availability and consumer debt levels; • Material input costs, including fuel and energy costs and labor cost inflation; • Foreign currency translation; • Interest rates; • Government policies including tax policies relating to value-added taxes, import and export duties and quotas, anti-dumping regulations and related tariffs and social compliance standards; • The impact of natural disasters and terrorist activities; • Unfavorable economic conditions in the United States, the United Kingdom and elsewhere; and • Unstable economic and political conditions, civil unrest and political activism, particularly in Asia. The Company’s international operations present special challenges that it may not be able to meet, and this could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company conducts business outside of the United States through subsidiaries, affiliates and joint ventures. These entities have operations in the United Kingdom, Mexico, Canada, Brazil, Hong Kong and China; therefore, the Company is subject to increases and decreases in its investments resulting from the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These entities also bear risks similar to those risks of the Company; however, there are specific additional risks related to these organizations such as the failure of the Company’s partners or other investors to meet their obligations and higher credit and liquidity risks related to thinly capitalized entities. Failure of these entities or the Company’s vendors to adhere to required regulatory or other standards, including social compliance standards, could impact the Company’s reputation and adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company’s growth has, to a material extent, depended upon acquisitions and its strategy is likely to continue to involve acquisitions. If it is unable to manage its acquisitions effectively, the business may be materially harmed. The Company has achieved growth through investments and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able to successfully integrate these businesses or identify and integrate future acquisitions into its existing business without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. Additionally, the Company makes certain assumptions based on the information provided by potential acquisition candidates and also conducts due diligence to ensure the information provided is accurate and based on reasonable assumptions. However, the Company may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or predict accurately how an acquisition will ultimately affect the business, financial condition or results of 7 Table of Contents operations. Failure of these businesses to achieve expected results, the diversion of the Company’s management’s attention and the failure to retain key personnel at these businesses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s borrowings are subject to interest rate fluctuations and an increase in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s borrowings bear interest at floating rates. An increase in interest rates would adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate exposure in connection with a portion of its variable interest rate borrowings. To the extent that the Company’s access to credit may be restricted because of its own performance, its bank lenders’ performances or conditions in the capital markets generally, the Company would not be able to operate normally. The Company faces intense competition from other companies worldwide. The markets for the Company’s products are intensely competitive. The Company competes with many other suppliers, some of which are larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources or employ brands that are more established, have greater consumer recognition or are more favorably perceived by consumers or retailers than the Company’s brands. Changes in the Company’s customer purchasing practices could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s wholesale customers include mass merchants, specialty stores, national chains, department stores, warehouse clubs, supermarkets, off-price retailers and Internet retailers. Unanticipated changes in purchasing and other practices by the Company’s customers, including a customer’s pricing and payment terms, inventory destocking, limitations on shelf space, more extensive packaging requirements, changes in order quantities, use of private label brands and other practices, could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. In addition, as a result of the desire of retailers to more closely manage inventory levels, there is a growing trend among retailers to make purchases on a “just-in-time” basis. This requires the Company to shorten its lead time for production in certain cases and more closely anticipate demand, which could in the future require the Company to carry additional inventories. The Company’s annual earnings and cash flows also depend to a great extent on the results of operations in the latter half of the year due to the seasonality of its sales. The Company’s success and sales growth is also dependent on its evaluation of consumer preferences and changing trends. The Company also sells a limited quantity of the Company’s products to individual consumers and smaller retailers through its own Internet sites. Many of the Company’s wholesale customers are significantly larger than the Company, have greater financial and other resources and also purchase goods directly from vendors in Asia and elsewhere. Decisions by large customers to increase their purchases directly from overseas vendors could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. Significant changes or financial difficulties, including consolidations of ownership, restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations or other events that affect retailers, could result in fewer stores selling the Company’s products, the Company having to rely on a smaller group of customers, an increase in the risk of extending credit to these customers or limitations on the Company’s ability to collect amounts due from these customers. Although the Company has long-established relationships with many of its customers, the Company does not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases. Purchases by the Company’s customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond the Company’s control or change other terms of their business relationship with the Company. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, delays in purchases or changes in business practices by customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Retailers place great emphasis on timely delivery of products for specific selling seasons, especially during our third fiscal quarter, and on the fulfillment of consumer demand throughout the year. The Company cannot control all of the various factors that might affect product delivery to retailers. Failure to deliver products to the Company’s retailers in a timely and effective manner, often under special vendor requirements to use specific carriers and delivery schedules, could damage the Company’s reputation and brands and result in loss of customers or reduced orders. 8 Table of Contents Changes at the Company’s largest customers could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. In 2013, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (including Sam’s Club and Asda Superstore) accounted for 15% of the Company’s net sales. A material reduction in purchases by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results. In addition, pressures by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. that would cause the Company to materially reduce the price of the Company’s products could result in reductions of the Company’s operating margin. Reduced sales by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. for reasons, affecting it or the retail industry generally, may also result in reduced demand by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. for the Company’s products. The concentration of the Company’s business with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. extends to its international businesses, including Vasconia in Mexico and its strategic alliance in Canada, due to the market presence of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. in these foreign countries. The Company has other significant customers, which account for less than 10% of sales, but the loss of which could have a significant effect on the Company’s business and operating results. Changes in purchasing practice of or decline in the financial condition of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. or these other companies may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, revenue and operating results. Further, with the continuing trend of consolidation in the retail industry, the ability of the Company’s largest customers to continue to purchase from the Company is always subject to risk. Consolidation also has the effect of increasing the bargaining power of retailers, as the existing retailers become fewer and larger. International suppliers subject the Company to regional regulatory, political, economic and foreign currency exchange risk which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company sources its products from suppliers located in Asia, Europe and the United States. The Company’s Asia vendors are located primarily in the People’s Republic of China, which subjects the Company to various risks within the region including regulatory, political, economic and foreign currency changes. The Company’s ability to select and retain reliable vendors and suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality parts and products efficiently will impact its success in meeting customer demand for timely delivery of quality products. The Company’s sourcing operations and its vendors are impacted by labor costs in China. Labor historically has been readily available at low cost relative to labor costs in North America. However, as China is experiencing rapid social, political and economic changes, labor costs have risen in some regions and there can be no assurance that labor will continue to be available to the Company in China at costs consistent with historical levels or that changes in labor or other laws will not be enacted which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations in China. Interruption of supplies from any of the Company’s vendors, or the loss of one or more key vendors, could have a negative effect on the Company’s business and operating results. Changes in currency exchange rates might negatively affect the profitability and business prospects of the Company and its overseas vendors. The Company does not have access to its vendors’ financial information and is unable to assess its vendors’ financial conditions including their liquidity. The Company’s international trade subjects it to transportation risks. The Company imports its products for delivery to its distribution centers, as well as arranges for its customers to import goods to which title has passed overseas or at port of entry. For purchases that are to be delivered to its distribution centers, the Company arranges for transportation, primarily by sea, from ports in Asia and Europe to ports in the United States, principally New York/Newark/Elizabeth and Los Angeles/Long Beach, and the United Kingdom, principally Felixstowe. Accordingly, the Company is subject to risks incidental to such transportation. These risks include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel costs, fuel shortages, the availability of ships, increased security restrictions, work stoppages and carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet the Company’s shipping needs. Transportation disruptions and increased transportation costs could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company delivers its products to its customers or makes such products available for customer pickup from its distribution centers. Prolonged domestic transportation disruptions, as well as workforce or systems issues related to the Company’s distribution centers, could have a negative effect on the Company’s ability to deliver goods to its customers. 9 Table of Contents The loss of certain licenses or material changes in royalty rates could adversely affect the Company’s operating margin. Significant portions of the Company’s business are dependent on trade names, trademarks and patents, some of which are licensed from third parties. Several of these license agreements are subject to termination by the licensor. The loss of certain licenses or a material increase in the royalty rates the Company pays under such licenses upon renewal could result in a reduction of the Company’s operating margin. The Company operates in a regulated environment that imposes significant compliance requirements. Non-compliance with these requirements could subject the Company to sanctions and adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company is subject in the ordinary course of its business, in the United States and elsewhere, to many statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations that if violated by the Company or its affiliates, partners or vendors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company is required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws prohibiting the Company from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. The Company’s employees and other agents could engage in such conduct for which the Company might be held responsible. If the Company’s employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, the Company could suffer substantial penalties. The Company is subject to general business laws and regulations, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These laws and regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws and regulations governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolutions of these issues would harm the Company’s business. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for the Company’s products on the Internet and increase the Company’s cost of doing business. The Company sells consumer products which involve an inherent risk of product liability claims. The marketing of certain of the Company’s consumer products involve an inherent risk of product liability claims or recalls or other regulatory or enforcement actions initiated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Office of Fair Trading in the U.K., by other regulatory authorities or through private causes of action. Any defects in products the Company markets could harm the Company’s reputation, adversely affect its relationship with its customers and decrease market acceptance of the Company’s products and the strength of the brand names under which the Company markets such products. Potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of the Company’s insurance coverage and could materially damage the Company’s business and its financial condition. The Company’s product standards could be impacted by new or revised environmental rules and regulations or other social initiatives. A failure in the Company’s operating systems or infrastructure or those of third parties, could disrupt the Company’s business, result in the disclosure of confidential information and cause losses. The Company relies on many information technology systems for the operation of its principal business functions, including the Company’s enterprise, warehouse management, inventory forecast and re-ordering and call center systems. In the case of the Company’s inventory forecast and re-ordering system, most of the Company’s orders are received directly through electronic connections with the Company’s largest customers. The failure of any of these systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. To keep pace within a competitive retail environment, the Company uses and will continue to evaluate new technologies to improve the efficiency of designing new innovative products. The success of certain product categories in a competitive marketplace can be dependent upon the creation and launch of new innovative products. 10 Table of Contents The Company’s brands are subject to reputational risks. The consumer goods industry is by its nature more prone to reputational risks than other industries. This has been compounded in recent years by the free flow of unverified information on the Internet and, in particular, on social media websites. Actual or perceived negative commentary on the Company’s products could subject the Company to reputational risks related to its brands. The Company is subject to cyber security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. The Company employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding the Company’s customers, employees and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. The Company has made significant efforts to secure its computer network to mitigate the risk of possible cyber-attacks. However, the Company’s computer network could be compromised which could impact operations and confidential information could be misappropriated. This could lead to adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits or cause the Company to incur significant costs to reimburse third-parties for damages which could adversely impact profits. In addition, although the Company’s systems and procedures comply with Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) data security standards, failure by the Company to maintain compliance with the PCI requirements or rectify a security issue could result in fines and the imposition of restrictions on the Company’s ability to accept credit cards. If the Company is unable to attract and maintain its highly skilled personnel the Company’s business could be adversely affected. The Company’s success depends on its ability to identify, hire and retain skilled personnel. The Company’s industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting among competitors for personnel with successful track records. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled personnel or may incur significant costs in order to do so. Increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the Company’s financial results and cash flows. The Company self-insures a substantial portion of the costs of employee healthcare and workers compensation. This could result in higher volatility in the Company’s earnings and exposes the Company to higher financial risks. The U.S. federal healthcare legislation, which came into effect in 2013, contains provisions which could materially impact the Company’s future healthcare costs. Changes in the law for 2014, including the imposition of a penalty on individuals who do not obtain healthcare coverage, may result in employees who are currently eligible but elect not to participate in the Company’s healthcare plans now finding it more advantageous to do so, which may increase the Company’s healthcare costs. It is also possible that making changes or failing to make changes in the healthcare plans the Company offers will make the Company less attractive to its current or potential employees. Implementing the requirements of the Affordable Care Act is also likely to impose some additional administrative costs on the Company. Interruptions in the Company’s operations caused by outside forces could cause material losses. The Company’s worldwide operations could be subject to natural and man-made disasters, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, conflicts, acts of terrorism, health epidemics and other business interruptions. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm the Company’s business, revenue and financial condition and increase the Company’s costs and expenses. If the Company’s or its manufacturers’ warehousing facilities or transportation facilities are damaged or destroyed, the Company would be unable to distribute products on a timely basis, which could harm the Company’s business. The Company’s back-up operations may be inadequate, and the Company’s business interruption insurance may not be enough to compensate for any losses that may occur. Demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new competitive products at favorable profit margins could adversely affect the Company’s performance and prospects for future growth. The uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as the market demands and the costs of development and production, may impede the successful development and introduction of new products. Acceptance of the new products may not meet sales expectations due to several factors, such as the Company’s failure to accurately predict market demand or its inability to resolve technical issues in a timely and cost-effective manner. Additionally, the inability to develop new products on a timely basis could result in the loss of business to competitors. 11 Table of Contents The Company’s product costs are subject to a high degree of price fluctuation. Various commodities comprise the raw materials used to manufacture of the Company’s products. The prices of these commodities have historically fluctuated on a cyclical basis and have often depended on a variety of factors over which the Company has no control. The cost of producing the Company’s products is also sensitive to labor costs. The selling prices of the Company’s products have not always increased in response to raw material, labor or other cost increases, and the Company is unable to determine to what extent, if any, it will be able to pass future cost increases through to its customers. The Company’s inability to pass increased costs through to its customers could materially and adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s projections of product demand, sales and net income are highly subjective in nature and the Company’s future sales and net income could vary in a material amount from the Company’s projections. From time to time, the Company may provide projections to our shareholders, lenders, investment community, and other stakeholders of our future sales and net income. Since the Company does not have long-term purchase commitments from customers and the customer order and ship process is very short, it is difficult for us to accurately predict the demand for many of the Company’s products, or the amount and timing of our future sales and related net income. The Company’s projections are based on management’s best estimate of sales using historical sales data and other information deemed relevant. These projections are highly subjective since sales can fluctuate substantially based on the demands of their retail customers and due to other risks described in this report. Additionally, changes in retailer inventory management strategies could make the Company’s inventory management more difficult. Because the Company’s ability to forecast product demand and the timing of related sales includes significant subjective input, future sales and net income could vary materially from the Company’s projections. Large sophisticated customers may take actions that adversely affect the Company’s gross profit and results of operations. In recent years, there is a consumer trend away from traditional grocery and drugstore channels and toward mass merchandisers, which includes super centers and warehouse club stores. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of these mass merchandisers. Additionally, these mass merchandisers source and sell products under their own private label brands that compete with the Company’s products. As mass merchandisers grow larger and become more sophisticated, they may continue to demand lower pricing, special packaging, shorter lead times for the delivery of products, or impose other requirements on product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If the Company does not effectively respond to the demands of these mass merchandisers, they could decrease their purchases from the Company. A reduction in the demand for our products by these mass merchandisers and the costs of complying with customer business demands could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to adequately address the additional review and disclosure required in respect of “Conflict Minerals.” The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains regulations concerning the supply of conflict minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012 the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use such “conflict minerals.” These new requirements will require due diligence efforts, with initial disclosure requirements beginning in May 2014. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including the costs of investigations to determine the sources of raw materials used in the Company’s products and the costs of any changes to products, processes or sources of supply as a consequence of the results of such investigations. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the Company’s products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering these materials “conflict free,” the Company cannot ensure that it will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, the Company may face reputational challenges if it determines that certain of its products contain minerals not determined to be “conflict free” or if it is unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all “conflict minerals” used in its products through the procedures it may implement. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 