Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are a number of risk factors that should be considered by Genelabs’ shareholders and prospective investors. It is not possible to comprehensively address all risks that exist, but the following risks in particular should be considered, in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Genelabs We may not be profitable in the near future or at all and in order to carry out our business plans we will require additional funds that may not be available. We have incurred losses each year since our inception and have accumulated approximately $240 million in net losses through December 31, 2007, including a net loss of $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a net loss of $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We may never be profitable and our revenues may never be sufficient to fund operations. We presently estimate that our current cash resources are adequate to fund our current operations into 2010. Thereafter, we will require additional capital to carry out our business plans. Additional funds for our research and development activities may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The unavailability of additional funds could delay or prevent the development of some or all of our products and technologies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our liquidity and capital resources will also be impacted by the discontinuation of ongoing research funding upon conclusion of the research phase of our collaboration with Novartis. We also may not be able to obtain additional sources of funding by entering into new collaborations. Our existing collaborations may fail. We expect to seek additional collaborative arrangements, which may not be available to us, to develop and commercialize our drug candidates in the future. Even if we are able to establish acceptable collaborative arrangements in the future, they may not be successful. Given our financial position and the broad range of resources required for drug development, we have in the past and will likely continue to enter into collaborations with pharmaceutical and larger biotechnology companies. We have received no revenue from the sale of drugs. To date, almost all of our revenue has come from collaboration agreements. We have previously entered into collaborations with Novartis, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Watson, Tanabe and other companies and we may enter into future collaborations with these or other companies. Our collaborators may breach their contracts, or our collaborators may not diligently and successfully develop and commercialize the results of our research. Alternatively, our collaborators may place limits on our ability to undertake research in competition with our collaborative project(s) and may not continue to successfully develop and commercialize the results of our research, and GlaxoSmithKline may choose not to continue developing the hepatitis E vaccine that it has been developing under a license from us. We are dependent on our collaborators to successfully carry out preclinical and clinical development, to obtain regulatory approvals, and/or to market and sell any products arising from the research and/or development conducted by us or the collaborator under such agreements. Factors that may cause our collaborators to fail in these efforts include: problems with toxicity, bioavailability or efficacy of the product candidate, difficulties in manufacture, problems in satisfying regulatory requirements, emergence of competitive product candidates developed 11 Table of Contents by the collaborator or by others, insufficient commercial opportunity, problems the collaborators may have with their own contractors, lack of patent protection for our product candidates or claims by others that it infringes their patents or other intellectual property rights. Collaboration on a project also may result in disputes with the collaborator over the efforts by us and/or the collaborator, the achievement of milestones or rights to intellectual property. If we fail to perform all of our obligations, our collaborators may withhold further funding, seek to seize control over our intellectual property and other assets, and/or assert claims for damages against us. In the course of the collaboration our collaborator may obtain know-how that enables it to compete with us in the same area of research and/or development. Because research and development results are unpredictable, we and our collaborators may not achieve any of the milestones in the collaboration agreements. We may also find it difficult to advance to the preclinical stage with some of our newer drug candidates if we are unable to find a suitable collaborator and we may not be able to negotiate new collaboration agreements on favorable terms or at all. Although we met the standards for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market as of the end of the 2007 fiscal year, our share price has recently traded below $1.00. There is no guarantee that we will be able to regain compliance with these standards and avoid delisting in the future, which may substantially decrease the value of your investment in Genelabs. To remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market we must have a share price of not less than $1.00 for thirty (30) consecutive days pursuant to Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(4)(Nasdaq Minimum Bid Price Rule), a market value of at least $35 million, or at least $2.5 million in shareholders’ equity. In the 2007 fiscal year, our market value fluctuated between approximately $35 million and approximately $90 million. Starting on March 10, 2008, our stock has had a trading price of less than $1.00 per share. If the highest closing bid price continues to be less than $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive trading days, we will automatically receive a deficiency notification letter from Nasdaq and will automatically be granted a grace period of 180 business days in which to cure the deficiency. If, at the end of the first grace period, we would qualify for listing under one of the alternative initial Nasdaq Capital Market listing standards (except for the Nasdaq Minimum Bid Price Rule), and we have not issued any information indicating that we no longer satisfy the initial listing criteria, we will automatically be afforded a second grace period of 180 business days. If at the end of the grace period we are unable to maintain compliance with the Nasdaq Minimum Bid Price Rule, we will be issued a delisting letter, which we may appeal at that time. Delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market would adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, significantly limit the liquidity of our common stock and likely impair our ability to raise additional funds. Many of our drug candidates are still in the early stages of development, and all of our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to identify drug candidates that are successfully developed and tested, we will not be successful. The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability, and our collaborators’ ability, to develop and commercialize our drug candidates successfully. Our drug candidates are in various stages of research and development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for sale. To satisfy these standards, we and/or our collaborators must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: • offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; • be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; • meet applicable regulatory standards; • be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or • if approved for commercial sale, be successfully commercialized. Positive results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in clinical trials, and promising results from earlier clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. Findings in non-clinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials could result in abrupt changes in 12 Table of Contents our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a drug candidate. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. We and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials, and may not be predictive of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. The financial terms of future collaborative or licensing arrangements could result in dilution of our share value. Funding from collaboration partners and others has in the past and may in the future involve issuance by us of our shares. Because we do not currently have any such arrangements, we cannot be certain how the purchase price of such shares, the relevant market price or premium, if any, will be determined, or when such determinations will be made. Any such issuance could result in dilution in the value of our issued and outstanding shares. We may be unable to obtain patents or protect our intellectual property rights, or others could assert their patents against us. Agency or court proceedings could invalidate our current patents, or patents that issue on pending applications. Our business would suffer if we do not successfully defend or enforce certain of our patents, which would result in the loss of proprietary protection for our related technologies and products. Patent litigation may be necessary to enforce patents to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of another. Although we have obtained several patents and have filed additional patent applications covering compounds from our HCV drug discovery programs, not all of these HCV applications have issued and our issued patents may be subject to challenge. A number of patents have issued to Genelabs covering our drug discovery technologies and methods related to the control of viral infections and a number of additional patent applications are pending, all of which are subject to similar uncertainties. The active ingredient in Prestara is prasterone, more commonly known as dehydroepiandrosterone, or DHEA. Genelabs licensed two United States patents covering uses of DHEA in treating lupus from Stanford University in 1993. The Stanford patents expire in 2012 and 2013, and the license expires when the patents expire. We hold a U.S. patent that expires in 2020 and several corresponding foreign patents claiming pharmaceutical formulations of DHEA in certain purified polymorphic forms. However, because DHEA is a long-known naturally-occurring hormone, we believe there are no valid composition of matter patents in existence that claim the DHEA chemical compound itself. Consequently, competitive products containing DHEA are currently available as dietary supplements in the United States and other countries. We have also obtained patents covering additional uses for Prestara and various other pharmaceutical formulations. If another company successfully brings legal action against us claiming our activities violate or infringe their patents, a court may require us to pay significant damages and prevent us from using or selling products or technologies covered by those patents. Others could independently develop the same or similar discoveries and may have priority over any patent applications we have filed on our discoveries. Prosecuting patent priority proceedings and defending litigation claims can be very expensive and time consuming for management. In addition, intellectual property that is owned by others and is important for advancing our drug discovery or development efforts might exist now or in the future. We might not be able to obtain licenses for products or technologies that are necessary to pursue research, development or commercialization of promising products. If third parties on whom we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. As part of our process of conducting drug discovery research and any future clinical trials we may rely on third parties such as medical institutions, preclinical and clinical investigators, contract laboratories and contract research 13 Table of Contents organizations. We may also rely on contract manufacturers for supply of active ingredients and formulated material for use in preclinical and clinical development. We depend on Novartis, Gilead and GlaxoSmithKline to conduct preclinical and clinical development, to obtain regulatory approval and to manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain or material they provide is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Additionally, our collaboration partners may have alternative product candidates that they may elect to favor over our product candidates. If they do not elect our product candidates for further development, our ability to advance in the preclinical and clinical development may be impaired or precluded. The results of our clinical trial of Prestara, Genelabs’ drug candidate for systemic lupus erythematosus, were not positive, substantially decreasing the probability that Prestara will ever be approved for marketing and thus diminishing our business prospects. In order to satisfy conditions set by the FDA, we conducted a Phase III clinical trial of Prestara on women with lupus taking glucocorticoids, using bone mineral density as the trial’s primary endpoint. Prestara is a pharmaceutical formulation containing highly purified prasterone, the synthetic equivalent of dehydroepiandrosterone, or DHEA, a naturally occurring hormone. This clinical trial did not demonstrate a statistically significant difference between the bone mineral density of the group of patients taking Presrara and the group taking placebo. Additionally, the trial was not specifically designed to demonstrate, and in fact did not demonstrate, a statistically significant benefit in secondary endpoints such as amelioration of lupus symptoms. A clinical trial of prasterone (the active ingredient in Prestara) was conducted by Genovate Biotechnology Co., Ltd., or Genovate, a Taiwan-based company that has a license from us for Prestara in most Asian countries. In April 2005, we announced that this clinical trial did not meet its primary endpoint, bone mineral density at the lumbar spine. Because both our and Genovate’s clinical trials did not meet their primary endpoints, the FDA will not approve Prestara without another positive pivotal Phase III clinical trial. Despite our agreement with the FDA on a Special Protocol Assessment for the approval of Prestara for the treatment of lupus, it may not be possible for a third party to implement a trial that would successfully provide results sufficient to obtain FDA approval. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing drugs before or more successfully than us. The biotechnology industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid and significant technological change. The creation of the type of compounds we seek to discover requires sophisticated and expensive lab equipment and facilities, a team of scientists with advanced scientific knowledge in many disciplines such as chemistry, biochemistry and biology, and time and effort. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from organizations such as pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies. Many of these organizations are also pursuing the discovery and development of new drugs to treat infection with the hepatitis C virus, and some are at a more advanced stage of development. Any of these organizations may discover, develop or commercialize products that are more effective, safer or less costly than those that we are developing. Our competitors may also complete enrollment in their clinical trials and obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we can. In addition, other therapies that do not incorporate the use of our products could prove to be more clinically or cost effective treatments, which would adversely affect our potential revenues. For example, there are institutions engaged in the research and development of a vaccine to prevent HCV infection. The availability of such a vaccine could have an adverse effect on our existing revenues from sales of products treating HCV infection and could materially and adversely affect our expected revenue from our HCV projects. 14 Table of Contents Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and better facilities than we have. Many of our competitors are more experienced in drug discovery, development and commercialization, in obtaining regulatory approvals and in drug manufacturing and marketing. In addition, if Genelabs discovers compounds that have the potential to be drugs, public information about our research success may lead other companies with greater resources to focus more efforts in areas similar to ours. Because large pharmaceutical companies have access to the latest equipment and have many more personnel available to focus on solving particular research problems, even if our research programs are successful we may have a competitive disadvantage. Multiple large, international Phase III studies are ongoing or about to commence around the world with other new investigational lupus therapies and may compete with a limited pool of patients needed for a Prestara Phase III study. Due to the need for a global study, the competitive landscape for lupus studies may significantly drive up the costs of a study. We may be unsuccessful in finding a collaboration partner for Prestara, which could harm our ability to recover our investment in Prestara. We have indicated that our plan is to externalize the development and financial responsibility for Prestara, which may involve a collaboration with a large pharmaceutical company. We may have difficulty finding a collaboration partner because of the following: • Prestara’s history of failed clinical trials; • The costs and duration of a study, which may be adversely affected by the following factors, among other risks discussed throughout this report: • the absence of a suitable contract manufacturer • the absence of an existing supply of Prestara drug compound suitable for use in a clinical trial • a limited pool of suitable patients available for a trial • future exposure to market risk for changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • The inherent risks associated with clinical trials and regulatory approval; • Limited scope and duration of intellectual property rights to Prestara (prasterone); • The fact that we do not own the marketing rights to Prestara in North America and Asia (except Japan); and • General market conditions. If we are unable to find a collaboration partner or negotiate favorable terms, we may not be successful in monetizing our Prestara assets, which may adversely affect our business prospects and stock price. Difficulties in financing and integrating future in-licensed or acquired drug programs could have a material adverse impact on our future growth. We intend to pursue a strategy of in-licensing or acquiring compatible drug programs and/or forming research collaborations or joint ventures. There can be no assurance that we will successfully complete or finance any such transaction or that any such transaction will be completed at prices or on terms that prove to be advantageous to us. Any such transaction may also involve a number of other risks, including: • the difficulty and expense of assimilating any related technology and personnel; • our inability to maintain any related relationship with key third parties; • potential exposure to legal claims relating to the licensed program; and • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing programs 15 Table of Contents In addition, any such program could fail to be scientifically or commercially viable, could prove dilutive to existing stockholders and could deplete existing cash resources. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may be unable to attract or retain key personnel. Our ability to develop our business depends in part upon our attracting and retaining qualified management and scientific personnel. The loss of key personnel, significant salary increases to retain key personnel or the failure to recruit additional key personnel could significantly impede the attainment of our objectives and harm our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, recent and proposed laws, rules and regulations increasing the liability of directors and officers may make it more difficult to retain incumbents and to recruit for these positions. Our collaboration with Novartis requires us to dedicate a specified level of scientific personnel to work on the project during the research phase of the collaboration. We are likely to have similar obligations under any future collaborations with new prospective collaborators. Because of these obligations, we may not have sufficient personnel to continue to advance our unpartnered drug discovery programs. As the number of qualified personnel is limited and our financial ability to attract a depth of top talent is constrained, competition for such staff is intense. Further, our collaboration with Novartis specifies the funding rates for Genelabs’ scientific personnel working on the collaboration, which means we bear the risk of any personnel cost increases. We may not be able to continue to attract or retain qualified people on acceptable terms, given the competition for qualified people with similar qualifications among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and nonprofit research institutions. On January 30, 2008, we announced the resignation of James A. D. Smith as President and Chief Executive Officer, effective January 29, 2008. We are currently searching for his replacement, and our Executive Chairman, Irene A. Chow, Ph.D., and our Chief Financial Officer, Frederick W. Driscoll, have assumed leadership responsibilities until a successor is appointed. Our facilities are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake could disrupt our operations and adversely effect our financial results. All of our operations are conducted in a single facility built on landfill in an area of California near active geologic faults that historically have caused major earthquakes from time to time. The office park where the facility is located is approximately at sea level behind levees sheltering the buildings from the San Francisco Bay. In the event of a significant earthquake, we could experience significant damage and business interruption for which we are not insured. Industry Risks Our activities involve hazardous materials and improper handling of these materials by our employees or agents could expose us to significant legal and financial penalties. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including infectious agents, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Our organic chemists use solvents, such as chloroform, isopropyl alcohol and ethanol, corrosives such as hydrochloric acid and highly flammable materials, some of which are pressurized, such as hydrogen. We use radioactive compounds in small quantities under a license from the State of California, including Carbon(14), Chromium(51), Hydrogen(3), Iodine(125), Phosphorus(32), Phosphorus(33) and Sulfur(35). Our biologists use biohazardous materials, such as bacteria, fungi, parasites, viruses and blood and tissue products. We also handle chemical, medical and radioactive waste, which are byproducts of our research. As a consequence, we are subject to numerous environmental and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Federal, state and local governments may adopt additional laws and regulations affecting us in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, current or future laws or regulations. 16 Table of Contents Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials and we could be liable for any civil damages that result, the cost of which could be substantial. Further, any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous chemicals or hazardous, infectious or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability under state or federal statutes. We do not specifically insure against environmental liabilities or risks regarding our handling of hazardous materials. Additionally, an accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our research facilities and operations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance on commercially reasonable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities in order to protect ourselves against product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. We may become subject to product liability claims if someone alleges that the use of our products injured subjects or patients. This risk exists for products tested in human clinical trials as well as products that are sold commercially. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are customary for companies of our size and in our industry and sufficient for risks we typically face, we may not be able to maintain this type of insurance in a sufficient amount in the future. Further, there is no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future at a cost or on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities that could harm our business by requiring us to use our resources to pay potential claims. Risks Relating to Owning Our Stock Because our stock is volatile, the value of your investment in Genelabs may substantially decrease. The market price of our common stock, like the stock prices of many publicly traded biopharmaceutical companies, has been and will probably continue to be highly volatile. Between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $2.67 and $1.26 per share. In addition to the factors discussed in this Risk Factors section, a variety of events can impact the stock price. For example, due partly to our low average daily trading volume, the availability of a large block of stock for sale in relation to our normal trading volume could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, numerous events occurring outside of our control may also impact the price of our common stock, including: • progress of our products through the regulatory process; • results of preclinical studies and clinical trials; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • government regulatory actions affecting our products or our competitors’ products in the United States or foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; • historical or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • comments or estimates made by securities analysts; • general market conditions for emerging growth, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; • broad market fluctuations; and • economic conditions in the United States or abroad. 17 Table of Contents Because the average daily trading volume of our common stock is low, the ability to sell our shares in the secondary trading market may be limited. Because the average daily trading volume of our common stock is low, the liquidity of our common stock may be impaired. As a result, prices for shares of our common stock may be lower than might otherwise prevail if the average daily trading volume of our common stock was higher. The average daily trading volume of our common stock may be low relative to the stocks of exchange listed companies, which could limit the ability to sell our shares in the secondary trading market. Exercise of outstanding options and warrants will dilute shareholders and could decrease the market price of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2007, we had issued and outstanding approximately 43,256,000 shares of Common Stock and outstanding options and warrants to purchase approximately 11,656,000 additional shares of Common Stock. The existence of the outstanding options and warrants may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and the terms under which we could obtain additional equity capital. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has previously required us to make changes to some of our corporate governance practices. Because we are currently a smaller reporting company, we presently do not have to comply with parts of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The SEC has recently proposed extending this deadline so that beginning with 2009 our auditors will again be required to issue a report addressing those assessments. Additionally, if our market capitalization increases significantly and we become an accelerated filer, our auditors may need to issue such a report for fiscal year 2008. The implementation of these compliance matters will likely result in an increase in our related expenses. We also may determine that we do not have effective controls over financial reporting. There may be other accounting or regulatory changes enacted in the future that would have a disproportionate impact on us compared to other companies because of our small size and our lack of product revenue to provide a source of funds to pay for compliance with the changes, among other reasons. We may incur significant costs from class action litigation. In the past, following periods of large price declines in the public market price of a company’s stock, holders of that stock occasionally have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our shareholders were to bring this type of lawsuit against us, even if the lawsuit is without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit also could divert the time and attention of our management, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. 