ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market, the volume of trading in our common stock has been light. As a result, shareholders may not be able to quickly and easily sell their common stock. Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market, and a number of brokers offer to make a market in the common stock on a regular basis, trading volume is limited. As a result, you may find it difficult to sell shares at or above the price at which you purchased them and you may lose part of your investment. Our common stock is not FDIC-insured. Shares of our common stock are not securities or savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of our subsidiary bank. Our common stock is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of your entire investment. 8 Applicable laws and regulations restrict both the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Company, and the ability of the Company to pay dividends to you. Our principal source of income consists of dividends, if any, from the Bank. Payment of dividends by the Bank to us is subject to regulatory limitations imposed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and the Bank must meet OCC capital requirements before and after the payment of any dividends. In addition, the Bank cannot pay a dividend, without prior OCC approval, if the total amount of all dividends declared during a calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceeds the sum of its retained net income to date during the calendar year plus the previous two years. The OCC has discretion to prohibit any otherwise permitted capital distribution on general safety and soundness grounds. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $2.2 million was available for the payment of dividends without prior OCC approval. Moreover, the laws of the State of New York, where the Company is incorporated, require that dividends be paid only from capital surplus so that the net assets of the Company remaining after such dividend payments are at least equal to the amounts of the Company’s stated capital. Any payment of dividends in the future will continue to be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a variety of factors deemed relevant by our board of directors, including, but not limited to, earnings, capital requirements and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”). The OCC is the Bank’s primary regulator and the Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination, and supervision by the OCC. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) also has authority to conduct special examinations of insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, a deposit insurer. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors and are not intended for the protection of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. In addition to the tightened capital standards to be imposed as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision recently announced higher global minimum capital standards (Basel III). Basel III has not been formally adopted and, at this time, it is unclear what the effect on the Bank will be. Compliance with the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Reform Act may adversely impact our earnings. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Reform Act”) into law. The Dodd-Frank Reform Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial-services industry. Major elements in the Dodd-Frank Reform Act include the following: · The establishment of the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel, which will be responsible for identifying and monitoring systemic risks posed by financial firms, activities, and practices. · Enhanced supervision of large bank holding companies (i.e., those with over $50 billion in total consolidated assets), with more stringent supervisory standards to be applied to them. · The creation of a special regime to allow for the orderly liquidation of systemically important financial companies, including the establishment of an orderly liquidation fund. · The development of regulations to address derivatives markets, including clearing and exchange trading requirements and a framework for regulating derivatives-market participants. · Enhanced supervision of credit-rating agencies through the Office of Credit Ratings within the SEC. · Increased regulation of asset-backed securities, including a requirement that issuers of asset-backed securities retain at least 5% of the risk of the asset-backed securities. · The establishment of a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, within the Federal Reserve, to serve as a dedicated consumer-protection regulatory body. · Amendments to the Truth in Lending Act aimed at improving consumer protections with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations. 9 The majority of the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Reform Act are aimed at financial institutions that are significantly larger than the Company or the Bank. Nonetheless, there are provisions with which we will have to comply with. As rules and regulations are promulgated by the federal agencies responsible for implementing and enforcing the provisions in the Dodd-Frank Reform Act, we will have to work to apply resources to ensure that we are in compliance with all applicable provisions, which may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, any of which may impact the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local and national economic conditions. We make loans and most of our assets are located in Sullivan County, New York as well as some adjacent areas in New York and Pennsylvania. Adverse changes in economic conditions in these markets could compromise our ability to collect loans, could reduce the demand for loans, and otherwise could negatively affect our performance and financial condition. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. While the stability of the financial and capital marketplaces in the United States improved in 2010, global economic troubles and weak domestic growth indicators, especially stubbornly high unemployment, continued to create uncertainty of economic recovery in the near term. Passage of the sweeping Dodd-Frank Financial Reform Act has broad implications for lenders and details of many of its provisions have yet to be fully implemented by regulatory agencies. As a consumer driven legislative initiative, the end result is expected to be negative for the banking industry as a whole. As a lender, we may be adversely affected by general economic weaknesses, and, in particular, a sharp downturn in the housing industry in the states of New York and Pennsylvania. A depressed economy has led to higher foreclosure rates increased charges to the allowance for loan losses and the reduction in real estate values in Sullivan County. No assurance can be given that these conditions will improve or will not worsen or that such conditions will not result in an increase in delinquencies, causing a decrease in our interest income, or continue to have an adverse impact on our loan loss experience, causing an increase in our allowance for loan losses. There can be no assurance that recent government action will help stabilize the U.S. financial system and will not have unintended adverse consequences. In recent periods, the U.S. government and various federal agencies and bank regulators have taken steps to stabilize and stimulate the financial services industry. Changes also have been made in tax policy for financial institutions. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), was an initial legislative response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the Federal Reserve was given the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. The Federal Reserve’s first efforts to maintain low long-term interest rates by purchasing mortgage backed securities ended in the spring of 2010 and was largely successful in holding those rates in check. As a European solvency crisis emerged in April, rates sank lower as investors sought the safety of the treasury market. However, a second initiative by the Federal Reserve in the fall of 2010 involving the purchase of long term U.S. Treasury bonds had the opposite of the desired effect, driving rates up nearly 100 basis points in the span of two months leading into the end of the year. Also late in 2010, Congress passed and the President signed into law an extension of current tax cuts which were set to expire at the end of the year, with an additional stimulus of a 2% reduction in Social Security payroll taxes for nearly all wage earners in 2011. Other government action, such as the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan which was intended to prevent mortgage defaults and foreclosures, which may provide benefits to the economy as a whole, but may also reduce the value of certain mortgage loans or other mortgage-related securities which investors, such as the Company, may hold. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that these or other government actions will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of its common stock. Declining residential and commercial real estate values could threaten the soundness and collectability of the real estate loans in the Bank’s portfolio. At December 31, 2010, 64.5% of the total assets of the Company, or $277,812,000, consisted of net loans. Of that amount, $247,647,000 or 89.1% of net total loans were secured by residential or commercial real estate. Based on information from the National Association of Realtors, the average residential real estate sales price in its primary market area for the quarter ended December 31, 2010 has fallen approximately 13% from the average residential real estate sales price for the comparable quarter in 2009. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Nonaccrual and Past Due Loans. 10 There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete with others for business. We compete for loans, deposits, and investment dollars with other insured depository institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, and private lenders, many of which have substantially greater resources. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for us to compete profitably, reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our overall financial condition and earnings. Declining tax revenues could threaten the soundness of the Bank’s investments in certain securities. The Bank owns local non-rated municipal securities which are intended to be held until maturity. At December 31, 2010 the carrying value of these investment securities was $6,021,000. If declining economic activity and real estate values result in significant reduced tax revenues to the municipal entities which issued these securities, the entities could be forced to default on repayment of the securities, having an adverse effect on the Bank’s financial condition. Our profitability depends on maintaining our projected interest rate differentials. Our operating income and net income depend to a great extent on ‘‘rate differentials,’’ i.e., the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest bearing assets and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing deposits and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve. Our growth and expansion may be limited by many factors. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue an internal growth strategy, the success of which will depend primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk and interest rate levels without corresponding increases in non-interest expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing our growth strategies, due, in part, to delays and other impediments inherent in our highly regulated industry, limited availability of qualified personnel or unavailability of suitable branch sites. The Company is committed to maintaining loan credit quality and sacrificing growth in the loan portfolio if necessary. In addition, the success of our growth strategy will depend, in part, on continued favorable economic conditions in our market area. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 