ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market, the volume of trading in the common stock has been light. As a result, shareholders may not be able to quickly and easily sell their common stock. Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market, and a number of brokers offer to make a market in the common stock on a regular basis, trading volume is limited. As a result, you may find it difficult to sell shares at or above the price at which you purchased them and you may lose part of your investment. Our common stock is not FDIC-insured. Shares of our common stock are not securities or savings or deposit accounts or other obligations of our subsidiary bank. Our common stock is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) or any other governmental agency and is subject to investment risk, including the possible loss of your entire investment. Applicable laws and regulations restrict both the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Company, and the ability of the Company to pay dividends to you. Our principal source of income consists of dividends, if any, from the Bank. Payment of dividends by the Bank to us is subject to regulatory limitations imposed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and the Bank must meet OCC capital requirements before and after the payment of any dividends. In addition the Bank also cannot pay a dividend, without prior OCC approval, if the total amount of all dividends declared during a calendar year, including the proposed dividend, exceeds the sum of its retained net income to date during the calendar year. The OCC has discretion to prohibit any otherwise permitted capital distribution on general safety and soundness grounds. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $4.7 million was available for the payment of dividends without prior OCC approval. Moreover, the law of the State of New York, where the Company is incorporated, requires that dividends be paid only from capital surplus so that the net assets of the Company remaining after such dividend payments are at least equal to the amounts of the Company’s stated capital. Any payment of dividends in the future will continue be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a variety of factors deemed relevant by our board of directors, including, but not limited to, earnings, capital requirements and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”). The OCC is the Bank’s primary regulator, and the Bank is subject to extensive regulation, examination, and supervision by the OCC. In addition, as to certain matters, the Bank is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors and are not intended for the protection of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material impact on our operations. On November 28, 2006, the Bank entered into a formal written agreement with the OCC. The agreement provides for a comprehensive action plan designed to enhance the Board of Directors’ and management’s supervision of the Bank, credit risk management and regulatory compliance, including compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act and related anti-money laundering laws. The management of the Company and the Bank believe this plan is being successfully implemented as required by the written agreement with the OCC. The Bank continues to operate under this formal agreement. The OCC continues its enhanced supervisory presence and monitoring of the Bank’s progress. Changes in local economic conditions could reduce our income and growth, and could lead to higher levels of problem loans and charge-offs. We make loans, and most of our assets are located, in Sullivan County, New York as well as some adjacent areas in New York and Pennsylvania. Adverse changes in economic conditions in these markets could hurt our ability to collect loans, could reduce the demand for loans, and otherwise could negatively affect our performance and financial condition. In early 2008, the Bureau of Indian Affairs denied pending casino applications to be located in Sullivan County which is expected to negatively impact the value of commercial properties underlying certain loans. The value of other properties would be negatively affected if other projects are not completed satisfactorily. The values of residential and commercial properties in the vicinity of an arts complex have risen with its completion. A similar rise in property values had been seen near properties where Casinos were expected to be constructed. In 2008, licenses for the proposed casinos were denied. Some properties near the expected Casino projects provide the chief collateral for loans originated by the Company and are expected to be negatively affected. 7 The Company has little exposure in properties purchased in anticipation of the casinos. Currently there are no impaired loans due to this event. However, there may be depreciation of property values and diminished marketability forthcoming. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete with others for business. We compete for loans, deposits, and investment dollars with other insured depository institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, and private lenders, many of which have substantially greater resources. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for us to compete profitably, reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our overall financial condition and earnings. Our profitability depends on maintaining our projected interest rate differentials. Our operating income and net income depend to a great extent on ‘‘rate differentials,’’ i.e., the difference between the interest yields we receive on loans, securities and other interest bearing assets and the interest rates we pay on interest bearing deposits and other liabilities. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities, including the Federal Reserve. These rate differentials have been gradually shrinking during the last three fiscal years. Our growth and expansion may be limited by many factors. We have pursued and intend to continue to pursue an internal growth strategy, the success of which will depend primarily on generating an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk and interest rate levels without corresponding increases in non interest expenses. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing our growth strategies, due, in part, to delays and other impediments inherent in our highly regulated industry, limited availability of qualified personnel or unavailability of suitable branch sites. In addition, the success of our growth strategy will depend, in part, on continued favorable economic conditions in our market area. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. ITEM 