ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The volatility of oil and natural gas prices due to factors beyond our control greatly affects our profitability. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including: • worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; • the level of prices, and expectations about future prices, of oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • the expected rates of declining current production; • weather conditions, including hurricanes, that can affect oil and natural gas operations over a wide area; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • technical advances affecting energy consumption; • risks associated with operating drilling rigs; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the price and level of foreign imports; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • political instability or armed conflict in oil and natural gas producing regions; and • the overall economic environment. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. For example, the West Texas Intermediate posted price for crude oil has ranged from a low of $30.28 per barrel, or bbl, in December 2008 to a high of $145.31 per bbl in July 2008. The Henry Hub spot market price of natural gas has ranged from a low of $3.53 per million British thermal units, or MMBtu, in September 2006 to a high of $15.52 per MMBtu in January 2006. On December 31, 2008, the West Texas Intermediate posted price for crude oil was $44.60 per bbl and the Henry Hub spot market price of natural gas was $5.63 per MMBtu. Any substantial decline in the price of oil and natural gas will likely have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and level of expenditures for the development of our oil and natural gas reserves, and may result in write downs of oil and natural gas properties due to ceiling test limitations. Declining general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatile prices of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a recession. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad continues to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could 14 Table of Contents continue to diminish, which could impact the price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, affect our vendors, suppliers and customers ability to continue operations, and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our success depends on finding, developing or acquiring additional reserves. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are depleted, except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. To increase reserves and production, we undertake development, exploration and other replacement activities or use third parties to accomplish these activities. We have made and expect in the future to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the development, production, exploration and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations, the issuance of equity securities and borrowings under our bank and other credit facilities. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of oil and natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which oil and natural gas are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. We may not have sufficient resources to undertake our exploration, development and production activities or the, acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves, our exploratory projects or other replacement activities may not result in significant additional reserves and we may not have success drilling productive wells at low finding and development costs. Furthermore, although our revenues may increase if prevailing oil and natural gas prices increase significantly, our finding costs for additional reserves could also increase. Our failure to successfully identify, complete and integrate future acquisitions of properties or businesses could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our ability to complete acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Completed acquisitions could require us to invest further in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage additional employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, based on whether or not significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. Our Canadian oil sands project is a complex undertaking and may not be completed at our estimated cost or at all. During the third quarter of 2006, we, through our wholly owned subsidiary Grizzly Holdings Inc., purchased a 24.9999% interest in Grizzly. The remaining interests in Grizzly are owned by entities controlled by Wexford. During 2006 and 2007, Grizzly acquired leases in the Athabasca region located in the Alberta Province near Fort McMurray near other oil sands development projects. Grizzly has approximately 511,000 acres under lease and our total net investment in Grizzly was $21.9 million at December 31, 2008. During the 2006/2007 and 2007/2008 winter delineation drilling seasons, Grizzly drilled an aggregate of 117 core holes, tested five separate lease blocks and undertook a seismic program. 2009 plans currently include drilling approximately 15 additional core holes and possibly acquiring additional leases. This is a complex project and financing has not been secured. This project may not be completed at our estimated cost or at all. 15 Table of Contents Shortage of rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel may restrict our operations. The oil and natural gas industry is cyclical, which can result in a shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel. As a result, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies increase and demand for, and wage rates of, qualified drilling rig crews also rise with increases in the number of active rigs in service. In accordance with customary industry practice, we rely on independent third party service providers to provide most of the services necessary to drill new wells. Shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel, trucking services, tubulars, fracing and completion services and production equipment could delay or restrict our exploration and development operations, which in turn could impair our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a few key employees whose absence or loss could disrupt our operations resulting in a loss of revenues. Many key responsibilities within our business have been assigned to a small number of employees. The loss of their services, particularly the loss of Mike Liddell, our Chairman of the Board, James D. Palm, our Chief Executive Officer, Michael G. Moore, our Chief Financial Officer, or our two geophysicists, Stuart Maier and Randy Wilson, could disrupt our operations resulting in a loss of revenues. We do not have an employment contract with any of our executives, with the exception of Mr. Liddell, and our executives are not restricted from competing with us if they cease to be employed by us. Additionally, as a practical matter, any employment agreement we may enter into will not assure the retention of our employees. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. As a result, we are not insured against any losses resulting from the death of our key employees. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are uncertain and may vary substantially from actual production. There are numerous uncertainties associated with estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of expenditures. The reserve information included in this report represents only estimates based on reports prepared by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. as of December 31, 2008 with respect to our WCBB field, by Pinnacle Energy Services, LLC with respect to our assets in the Permian Basin in West Texas and by our personnel with respect to our Hackberry and Bakken fields and our overrides and non-operated interests. Petroleum engineering is not an exact science. Information relating to our proved oil and natural gas reserves is based upon engineering estimates. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, future site restoration and abandonment costs, the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. The present value of future net revenues from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net revenue from our proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. However, actual future net revenues from our oil and natural gas properties also will be affected by factors such as: • actual prices we receive for oil and natural gas; • the amount and timing of actual production; • supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; and • changes in governmental regulations or taxation. 16 Table of Contents The timing of both our production and our incurrence of costs in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of bitumen reserves and resources and the indicated level of reserves or recovery of bitumen may not be realized. There are numerous uncertainties in estimating quantities of bitumen reserves and resources, and the indicated level of reserves or recovery of bitumen may not be realized. In general, estimates of economically recoverable bitumen reserves and the future net cash flow from such reserves are based upon a number of factors and assumptions made as of the date on which the reserve and resource estimates were determined, such as geological and engineering estimates which have uncertainties, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies and estimates of future commodity prices and operating costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. All such estimates are, to some degree, uncertain and classifications of reserves are only attempts to define the degree of uncertainty involved. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable bitumen, the classification of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of future net revenues expected therefrom, prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Estimates with respect to reserves and resources that may be developed and produced in the future are often based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of reserves, rather than upon actual production history. Estimates based on these methods generally are less reliable than those based on actual production history. Subsequent evaluation of the same reserves based upon production history may result in variations in the estimated reserves. Reserve and resource estimates may require revision based on actual production experience. Reserve and resources estimates are determined with reference to assumed oil prices and operating costs. Market price fluctuations of oil prices may render uneconomic the recovery of certain grades of bitumen. The actual gravity or quality of bitumen to be produced from Grizzly’s lands cannot be determined at this time. The marketability of our production is dependent upon compressors, gathering lines, transportation barges and other facilities, certain of which we do not control. When these facilities are unavailable, our operations can be interrupted and our revenues reduced. The marketability of our oil and natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas lines and transportation barges owned by third parties. In general, we do not control these transportation facilities and our access to them may be limited or denied. A significant disruption in the availability of these transportation facilities or our compression and other production facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver to market or produce our oil and natural gas and thereby cause a significant interruption in our operations. We are at particular risk with respect to oil and natural gas produced at our WCBB field, which is our largest field. In October 2006, for example, a natural gas line in this field operated by our natural gas purchaser was ruptured by a third party contractor, requiring the field to be shut in for approximately seven weeks until the line could be repaired. Further, we are dependent on our oil purchaser to provide the barges necessary to transport our oil production from the WCBB field. If, in the future, we are unable, for any sustained period, to implement acceptable delivery or transportation arrangements or encounter compression or other production related difficulties, we will be required to again shut in or curtail production from the field. Any such shut in or curtailment, or an inability to obtain favorable terms for delivery of the oil and natural gas produced from the field, would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents An substantial portion of our producing properties is located in Louisiana, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in this region. Our operations are concentrated in Louisiana and our largest field, WCBB, is located approximately five miles off the coast of Louisiana in a shallow bay with water depths averaging eight to ten feet. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from this region caused by weather conditions such as fog or rain, hurricanes or other natural disasters, or lack of field infrastructure. Losses could occur for uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of any existing insurance coverage. We may not be able to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at rates we consider reasonable or that any particular types of coverage will be available. Our identified drilling locations comprise an estimation of part of our future drilling plans over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. We have identified over 150 drilling locations on our Louisiana properties. These drilling locations represent a significant part of our growth strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including the availability of capital, oil and natural gas prices, inclement weather, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we do not know if the numerous potential drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce oil or natural gas from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified, which could adversely affect our business. Operating hazards and uninsured risks may result in substantial losses. Our operations are subject to all of the hazards and operating risks associated with drilling for and production of oil and natural gas, including the risk of fire, explosions, blowouts, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental hazards such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases. The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. For example, in October 2006, an accident occurred north of our production facilities in the WCBB field in southern Louisiana involving two contracted vessels that were performing work on our behalf in the field. A tugboat and two barges laden with construction materials ruptured an underwater natural gas pipeline and a subsequent fire damaged the vessels. Six fatalities resulted from the accident. Several lawsuits relating to this incident were filed against us, among other parties. These lawsuits against us have all been settled. In accordance with customary industry practice, we historically have maintained insurance against some, but not all, of our business risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities we may suffer. Also, insurance may no longer be available to us or, if it is, its availability may be at premium levels that do not justify its purchase. In addition, we understand that insurance carriers are modifying or otherwise restricting insurance coverage or ceasing to provide certain types of insurance coverage in the Gulf Coast region. We may also be liable for environmental damage caused by previous owners of properties purchased by us, which liabilities may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to various governmental regulations which require compliance that can be burdensome and expensive. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to various federal, state and local governmental regulations that may be changed from time to time in response to economic and political conditions. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, the spacing of wells, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity to conserve supplies of oil and gas. In addition, the production, handling, storage, transportation, emission and disposal of oil and gas, by-products thereof and other substances and 18 Table of Contents materials produced or used in connection with oil and natural gas operations are subject to regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of human health and the environment. These laws and regulations have continually imposed increasingly strict requirements for water and air pollution control and waste management. Significant expenditures may be required to comply with governmental laws and regulations applicable to us. We believe the trend of more expansive and stricter environmental legislation and regulations will continue. We face extensive competition in our industry. The oil and natural gas industry is intensely competitive, and we compete with other companies that have greater resources. Many of these companies not only explore for and produce oil and natural gas, but also carry on midstream and refining operations and market petroleum and other products on a regional, national or worldwide basis. These competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of industry opportunities and to withstand changes affecting the industry, such as fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices and production, the availability of alternative energy sources and the application of government regulation. We depend upon two customers for the sale of most of our oil and natural gas production. The availability of a ready market for any oil and natural gas we produce depends on numerous factors beyond the control of our management, including but not limited to the extent of domestic production and imports of oil, the proximity and capacity of gas pipelines, the availability of skilled labor, materials and equipment, the effect of state and federal regulation of oil and natural gas production and federal regulation of gas sold in interstate commerce. The oil and natural gas we produce in Louisiana is sold to purchasers who service the areas where our wells are located. We sell the majority of our oil to Shell Trading Company, or Shell. Shell takes custody of the oil at the outlet from our oil storage barge. At December 31, 2008, our WCBB production, other than production sold under forward sales contracts, was being sold in accordance with the Shell posted price for West Texas/New Mexico Intermediate crude plus or minus Platt’s trade month average P+ value, plus or minus the Platt’s HLS/WTI trade month average differential less $3.45 per Bbl for transportation. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007, we sold approximately 87% and 99%, respectively, of our oil production to Shell and 60% and 69%, respectively, of our natural gas production to Chevron. During 2008, we sold approximately 11%, 100%, and 22% of our oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas production, respectively, to Windsor and 16% of our natural gas production to Hilcorp Energy Company. During 2007, we sold approximately 23% of our natural gas production to Hilcorp Energy Company. During 2006, we sold 100% of our oil production to Shell and 96% of our natural gas production to Chevron. We may not continue to have ready access to suitable markets for our future oil and natural gas production. Our method of accounting for oil and natural gas properties may result in impairment of asset value. We use the full cost method of accounting for oil and natural gas operations. Accordingly, all costs, including nonproductive costs and certain general and administrative costs associated with acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas properties, are capitalized. Net capitalized costs are limited to the estimated future net revenues, after income taxes, discounted at 10% per year, from proven oil and natural gas reserves and the cost of the properties not subject to amortization. Such capitalized costs, including the estimated future development costs and site remediation costs, if any, are depleted by an equivalent units-of-production method, converting gas to barrels at the ratio of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil. Companies that use the full cost method of accounting for oil and gas properties are required to perform a ceiling test each quarter. The test determines a limit, or ceiling, on the book value of the oil and gas properties. Net capitalized costs are limited to the lower of unamortized cost net of deferred income taxes or the cost center ceiling. The cost center ceiling is defined as the sum of (a) estimated future net revenues, discounted at 10% per annum, from proved reserves, based on unescalated year-end prices and costs, adjusted for any contract provisions or financial derivatives, if any, that hedge oil and natural gas revenue, and excluding the estimated abandonment costs for properties with asset retirement obligations recorded on the balance sheet, (b) the cost of 19 Table of Contents properties not being amortized, if any, and (c) the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties included in the cost being amortized, less income tax effects related to differences between the book and tax basis of the oil and natural gas properties. If the net book value reduced by the related net deferred income tax liability exceeds the ceiling, an impairment or noncash writedown is required. A ceiling test impairment can give us a significant loss for a particular period. Once incurred, a write down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date, even if oil or gas prices increase. For instance, as a result of the drop in commodity prices on December 31, 2008, we recognized a ceiling test impairment of $272,722,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008. This impairment, however, reduces future depletion expense. If prices of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids continue to decrease, we may be required to further write down the value of our oil and gas properties. Future non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations. Our use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of oil and natural gas, which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. In addition, the use of 3-D seismic and other advanced technologies requires greater predrilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies, and we could incur losses as a result of such expenditures. As a result, our drilling activities may not be successful or economical. We have entered into forward sales contracts and may in the future enter into additional contracts for a portion of our production, which may result in our making cash payments or prevent us from receiving the full benefit of increases in prices for oil and gas. To mitigate the effects of commodity price fluctuations, during 2008, we were party to forward sales contracts for the sale of 3,500 barrels of WCBB production per day at a weighted average daily price of $78.56 per barrel before transportation costs. We delivered approximately 73% of our 2008 production under these agreements. For the period January through December 2009, we had entered into agreements to sell 3,000 barrels of WCBB production per day at a weighted average daily price of $89.06 per barrel before transportation costs. In December 2008, we terminated these 2009 forward sales contracts in exchange for $39.0 million in cash. Subsequently, we entered into forward sales contracts for the sale of 3,000 barrels of WCBB production per day at a weighted average daily price of $55.17 per barrel, before transportation costs, for the period April 2009 to August 2009. We have also entered into forward sales contracts for the sale of 3,000 barrels of WCBB production per day at a weighted average daily price of $54.81 per barrel, before transportation costs, for the period September 2009 to December 2009. For the period January 2010 through February 2010, we have entered into forward sales contracts for the sale of 3,000 barrels of WCBB production per day at a weighted average daily price of $54.81 per barrel, before transportation costs. For the period March 2010 through December 2010, we have entered into forward sales contracts for the sale of 2,000 barrels of WCBB production per day at a weighted average daily price of $57.35 per barrel, before transportation costs. Under these contracts, we have committed to deliver approximately 50% of our estimated 2009 production. Such arrangements may expose us to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances where production is less than expected or oil prices increase. Since these contracts require physical delivery of production quantities, they normally would be exempted from the provisions of SFAS 133 as normal sales of production. However, as a result of the early termination of the contracts in December 2008, we will not be able to apply this election on new contracts and they will be accounted for at fair value until we re-establish a history of physical delivery without early termination. In addition, these arrangements may limit the benefit to us of increases in the price of oil. A terrorist attack or armed conflict could harm our business. Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflicts involving the United States or other countries may adversely affect the United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our financial and other obligations. If any of these events occur, the resulting political instability and societal 20 Table of Contents disruption could reduce overall demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on demand for our services and causing a reduction in our revenues. Oil and natural gas related facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our customers’ operations is destroyed or damaged. Costs for insurance and other security may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. Conservation measures and technological advances could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to oil and natural gas, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for oil and natural gas. The impact of the changing demand for oil and gas services and products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If the costs related to such compliance are significant, our profitability, stock price and results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Commencing with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we became subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, which requires that we document and test our internal control over financial reporting and issue management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. This section also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting. We are required to evaluate our existing controls against the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, or COSO. The out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running the day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 have been significant. If the future time and costs associated with such compliance exceed our current expectations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to fully comply with the requirements of Section 404 or if we determine that we have a material weakness or significant deficiencies, or if our auditors disagree with our assessment in connection with the presentation of our financial statements, the accuracy and timeliness of the filing of our periodic reports may be materially adversely affected and could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In addition, a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting could result in an increased chance of fraud, reduce our ability to obtain financing and require additional expenditures to comply with these requirements, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our system of disclosure and internal controls and procedures may not be successful in preventing all errors and fraud, or in making all material information known in a timely manner to management. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. These limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and any design may not succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with 21 Table of Contents the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock If our quarterly revenues and operating results fluctuate significantly, the price of our common stock may be volatile. Our revenues and operating results may in the future vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If our quarterly results fluctuate, it may cause our stock price to be volatile. We believe that a number of factors could cause these fluctuations, including: • changes in oil and natural gas prices; • changes in production levels; • changes in governmental regulations and taxes; • geopolitical developments; • the level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; and • conditions in the oil and natural gas industry and the overall economic environment. Because of the factors listed above, among others, we believe that our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. It is also possible that in some future quarters, our operating results will fall below our expectations or the expectations of market analysts and investors. If we do not meet these expectations, the price of our common stock may decline significantly. Our officers and directors together with our largest stockholder control a significant percentage of our common stock, and their interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 4% of our outstanding common stock and Charles E. Davidson, one of our major stockholders, beneficially owned approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders acting together are able to exercise significant influence over most matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained. Since July 14, 2006, our common stock has been listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “GPOR.” From February 28, 2006 until that date, our common stock was listed on the NASDAQ National Market. Prior to that date, our common stock was traded on the NASD OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “GPOR.OB.” There is a limited market for our shares. An active trading market may not develop, or if it does, it may not be sustained. We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the future. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock, and we may not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future. We intend to retain any earnings to fund our operations. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, the terms of our credit agreement prohibit the payment of any dividends to the holders of our common stock. 22 Table of Contents A change of control could limit our use of net operating losses. As of December 31, 2008, we had a net operating loss, or NOL, carry forward of approximately $60 million for federal income tax purposes. Transfers of our stock in the future could result in an ownership change. In such a case, our ability to use the NOLs generated through the ownership change date could be limited. In general, the amount of NOLs we could use for any tax year after the date of the ownership change would be limited to the value of our stock (as of the ownership change date) multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate. Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. We and certain of our stockholders have registered a substantial number of shares of our common stock under a registration statement filed with the SEC. Sales of these shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, sales by certain of our stockholders of their shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of common or preferred stock. As of March 1, 2009, there were 42,647,034 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding, excluding 85,037 shares of restricted stock awarded under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan. We could issue preferred stock which could be entitled to dividend, liquidation and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock or which could have anti-takeover effects. We are authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. Shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series as our board of directors, by resolution or resolutions, may from time to time determine each such series to be distinctively designated. The voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, if any, of each such series of preferred stock may differ from those of any and all other series of preferred stock at any time outstanding, and, subject to certain limitations of our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law, or DGCL, our board of directors may fix or alter, by resolution or resolutions, the designation, number, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of each such series preferred stock. The issuance of any such preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and, therefore, could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could discourage, delay or prevent a takeover of us, thereby preserving control of the company by the current stockholders. The existence of some provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if that change would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make acquiring control of our company difficult. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 23 Table of Contents 