Item 1A. Risk Factors There are a number of risk factors that should be considered by Genelabs’ shareholders and prospective investors. It is not possible to comprehensively address all risks that exist, but the following risks in particular should be considered, in addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Genelabs We may not be profitable in the near future or at all and in order to carry out our business plans we will require additional funds which may not be available. We have incurred losses each year since our inception and have accumulated approximately $237 million in net losses through December 31, 2006, including a net loss of $8.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and a net loss of $10.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We may never be profitable and our revenues may never be sufficient to fund operations. We presently estimate that our current cash resources, including net proceeds of an estimated $9.2 million from the sale of shares in February 2007, are adequate to fund our current operations into 2009. Thereafter, we will require additional capital to carry out our business plans. Additional funds for our research and development activities may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. The unavailability of additional funds could delay or prevent the development of some or all of our products and technologies, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our collaborations may fail. Given our financial position and the broad range of resources required for drug development, we have in the past and will likely continue to enter into collaborations with pharmaceutical and larger biotechnology companies. We have received no revenue from the sale of drugs. To date, almost all of our revenue has come from collaboration agreements. We have entered into collaborations with Novartis, Gilead, GlaxoSmithKline, Watson, Tanabe and other companies and we may enter into future collaborations with these or other companies. Our collaborators may breach their contracts, or our collaborators may not diligently and successfully develop and commercialize the results of the research. Alternatively, our collaborators may elect not to extend or augment the collaborations. In this regard, Novartis and/or Gilead may not continue to fund our research beyond their obligations in the research 11 Table of Contents contracts, and GlaxoSmithKline may choose not to continue developing the hepatitis E vaccine which it has been developing under a license from us. We are dependent on our collaborators to successfully carry out preclinical and clinical development, to obtain regulatory approvals, and/or to market and sell any products arising from the research and/or development conducted by us or the collaborator. Factors which may cause our collaborators to fail in these efforts include: problems with toxicity, bioavailability or efficacy of the product candidate, difficulties in manufacture, problems in satisfying regulatory requirements, emergence of competitive product candidates developed by the collaborator or by others, insufficient commercial opportunity, problems the collaborators may have with their own contractors, lack of patent protection for our product candidates or claims by others that it infringes their patents or other intellectual property rights. Collaboration on a project also may result in disputes with the collaborator over the efforts by us and/or the collaborator, the achievement of milestones or rights to intellectual property. If we fail to perform all of our obligations, our collaborators may withhold further funding, seek to seize control over our intellectual property and other assets, and/or assert claims for damages against us. In the course of the collaboration our collaborator may obtain know-how which enables it to compete with us in the same area of research and/or development. Because research and development results are unpredictable, we and our collaborators may not achieve any of the milestones in the collaboration agreements. We may also find it difficult to advance to the development stage with some of our newer drug candidates if we are unable to find a suitable collaborator and we may not be able to negotiate new collaboration agreements on favorable terms or at all. Our research programs are in an early stage and may not successfully produce commercial products. Pharmaceutical discovery research is inherently high-risk because of the high failure rate of projects. To date, our pharmaceutical research has been focused on a limited number of targets for which no or few commercial drugs have been successfully developed. Our projects may fail if, among other reasons, the compounds being developed fail to meet criteria for potency, toxicity, pharmacokinetics, manufacturability, intellectual property protection and freedom from infringement, or other criteria; or if we fail to make progress due to lack of resources or access to enabling technologies. Genelabs’ product candidates, other than Prestaratm, are in an early stage of research. All of our research projects may fail to produce commercial products. We face substantial competition which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing drugs before or more successfully than us. The biotechnology industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid and significant technological change. Creation of the type of compounds we seek to discover requires sophisticated and expensive lab equipment and facilities, a team of scientists with advanced scientific knowledge in many disciplines such as chemistry, biochemistry and biology, and time and effort. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from organizations such as pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies. Many of these organizations are also pursuing the discovery and development of new drugs to treat infection with the hepatitis C virus, and some are at a more advanced stage of development. Any of these organizations may discover, develop or commercialize products that are more effective, safer or less costly than those that we are developing. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and better facilities than we have. Many of our competitors are more experienced in drug discovery, development and commercialization, in obtaining regulatory approvals and in drug manufacturing and marketing. In addition, if Genelabs discovers compounds that have the potential to be drugs, public information about our research success may lead other companies with greater resources to focus more efforts in areas similar to ours. Because large pharmaceutical companies have access to the latest equipment and have many more personnel available to focus on solving particular research problems, even if our research programs are successful we may have a competitive disadvantage. 12 Table of Contents If third parties on whom we rely do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. As part of our process of conducting drug discovery research and clinical trials we rely on third parties such as medical institutions, pre-clinical and clinical investigators, contract laboratories and contract research organizations to participate in the conduct of our clinical trials. We also rely on contract manufacturers for supply of active ingredients and formulated material for use in preclinical and clinical development. We depend on Novartis, Gilead and GlaxoSmithKline to conduct preclinical and clinical development, to obtain regulatory approval and to manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to their failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Additionally, our collaboration partners may have alternative product candidates which they may elect to favor over our product candidates. If they do not elect our product candidates for further development, our ability to advance in the pre-clinical and clinical development may be impaired or precluded. The results of our clinical trial of Prestaratm, Genelabs’ drug candidate for systemic lupus erythematosus, were not positive, substantially decreasing the probability that Prestara will ever be approved for marketing and thus diminishing our business prospects. In order to satisfy conditions set by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, we conducted a Phase III clinical trial of Prestaratm on women with lupus taking glucocorticoids using bone mineral density as the trial’s primary endpoint. Prestaratm is a pharmaceutical formulation containing highly purified prasterone, the synthetic equivalent of dehydroepiandrosterone or DHEA, a naturally occurring hormone. This clinical trial did not demonstrate a statistically significant difference between the bone mineral density of the group of patients taking Prestaratm and the group taking placebo. Additionally, the trial was not specifically designed to demonstrate, and in fact did not demonstrate, a statistically significant benefit in secondary endpoints such as amelioration of lupus symptoms. A clinical trial of prasterone (the active ingredient in Prestara) was conducted by Genovate Biotechnology Co., Ltd., or Genovate, a Taiwan-based company that has a license from us for Prestara in most Asian countries. In April 2005 we announced that this clinical trial did not meet its primary endpoint, bone mineral density at the lumbar spine. Because both our and Genovate’s clinical trials did not meet their primary endpoints, the FDA will not approve Prestaratm without another Phase III clinical trial. It may not be possible to design and implement a trial that would successfully provide results sufficient to obtain FDA approval for Prestaratm, and Genelabs currently does not have the funds to conduct such a trial. Our outside suppliers and manufacturers for Prestaratm are subject to regulation, including by the FDA, and if they do not meet their commitments, we would have to find substitute suppliers or manufacturers which could delay supply of product to the market. Regulatory requirements applicable to pharmaceutical products tend to make the substitution of suppliers and manufacturers costly and time consuming. We rely on a single supplier of prasterone, the active ingredient in Prestaratm, and we rely on a single finished product manufacturer, Patheon Inc., for production of Prestaratm capsules and for packaging. The disqualification of a supplier or manufacturer through their failure to comply with regulatory requirements could negatively impact our business because of delays and costs in obtaining and qualifying alternate suppliers. We have no internal manufacturing capabilities for pharmaceutical products and are entirely dependent on contract manufacturers and suppliers for the manufacture of our drug candidates. Genelabs and our North American collaborator, Watson, previously arranged for the manufacture of quantities of Prestaratm and prasterone, its active ingredient, in anticipation of possible marketing approval. This inventory has exceeded its initial retest date, although the active ingredient may still be used if it successfully passes re-testing. Watson has informed us that they wish to have the portion of prasterone inventory owned by them destroyed. 13 Table of Contents The following could harm our ability to manufacture Prestaratm: • The unavailability at reasonable prices of adequate quantities of the active ingredient or intermediates; • The loss of a supplier’s or manufacturer’s regulatory approval; • The failure of a supplier or manufacturer to meet regulatory agency pre-approval inspection requirements; • The failure of a supplier or manufacturer to maintain compliance with ongoing regulatory agency requirements; • The inability to develop alternative sources in a timely manner or at all; • The inability or refusal of the manufacturers to meet our needs for any reason, such as loss or damage to facilities or labor disputes; • The manufacture of product that is defective in any manner; and • The competing demands on the contract manufacturer’s capacity, for example, shifting manufacturing priorities to their own products or more profitable products for other customers; We may be unable to obtain patents or protect our intellectual property rights, or others could assert their patents against us. Agency or court proceedings could invalidate our current patents, or patents that issue on pending applications. Our business would suffer if we do not successfully defend or enforce our patents, which would result in loss of proprietary protection for our technologies and products. Patent litigation may be necessary to enforce patents to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of another. The active ingredient in Prestaratm is prasterone, more commonly known as dehydroepiandrosterone, or DHEA. DHEA is a compound that has been in the public domain for many years. Although we have an issued U.S. patent on the specific polymorphic form of DHEA we have used in our formulation of prasterone, we do not believe it is possible to obtain patent protection for the base chemical compound anywhere in the world. Genelabs licensed two United States patents covering uses of DHEA in treating lupus from Stanford University in 1993. The Stanford patents expire in 2012 and 2013, and the license expires when the patents expire. In addition, we have filed patent applications covering additional uses for Prestaratm and various pharmaceutical formulations and intend to file additional applications as appropriate. We have filed patent applications covering compounds from our HCV drug discovery programs; however, not all of these HCV applications have issued. A number of patents have issued to Genelabs covering our drug discovery technologies and methods related to selective regulation of gene expression and the control of viral infections. A number of patent applications are pending. If another company successfully brings legal action against us claiming our activities violate, or infringe, their patents, a court may require us to pay significant damages and prevent us from using or selling products or technologies covered by those patents. Others could independently develop the same or similar discoveries and may have priority over any patent applications Genelabs has filed on these discoveries. Prosecuting patent priority proceedings and defending litigation claims can be very expensive and time-consuming for management. In addition, intellectual property that is important for advancing our drug discovery efforts or for uses for the active ingredient in Prestaratm owned by others might exist now or in the future. We might not be able to obtain licenses to a necessary product or technology on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and therefore, we may not pursue research, development or commercialization of promising products. We may be unable to attract or retain key personnel. Our ability to develop our business depends in part upon our attracting and retaining qualified management and scientific personnel. The loss of our key personnel, significant salary increases to retain our key personnel or the failure to recruit additional key personnel could significantly impede attainment of our objectives and harm our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, recent and proposed laws, rules and regulations increasing the liability of directors and officers may make it more difficult to retain incumbents and to recruit for these positions. 14 Table of Contents In June 2006, we entered into a collaboration with Novartis which will require us to dedicate a specified level of scientific personnel to the work plan established with Novartis. We have similar obligations under our collaboration with Gilead. Because we have obligations to dedicate a specified number of scientists to the collaborations, we may not have sufficient personnel to continue to advance our unpartnered NS5a drug discovery program. As the number of qualified personnel is limited, competition for such staff is intense. Further, our collaborations with Novartis and Gilead specify the funding rates for Genelabs’ scientific personnel working on the collaborations, which means we bear the risk of any personnel cost increases. We may not be able to continue to attract or retain such people on acceptable terms, given the competition for those with similar qualifications among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and nonprofit research institutions. On August 25, 2006 we announced the resignation of Matthew Loar as Chief Financial Officer, effective September 1, 2006. We are currently searching for his replacement, and our Chief Executive Officer, James A.D. Smith, has assumed Mr. Loar’s duties on an interim basis. Although we currently meet the standards for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market, there is no guarantee that we will continue to meet these standards in the future and if we are delisted the value of your investment in Genelabs may substantially decrease. To remain listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market we must have a market value of at least $35 million or at least $2.5 million in shareholders’ equity. In 2006, our market value fluctuated between approximately $13 million and approximately $44 million. In our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed for the period ended March 31, 2006, our shareholders’ equity was a deficit of $0.8 million. Based on these factors, the Nasdaq Stock Market sent us a delisting notice, which we appealed to a listing qualifications panel. We subsequently received notification from Nasdaq that the Panel granted our request for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The notification further stated that under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4806(d)(2), the Panel will continue to monitor our compliance with the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market for a period of one year. During this one year period, which expires August 3, 2007, if the Company fails to comply with the continued listing standards an additional hearing regarding the listing would be promptly scheduled pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4806(a). Even though the listing qualifications panel granted our request for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market there is no guarantee that we will continue to meet the standards for listing in the future. Delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market would adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, significantly limit the liquidity of our common stock and impair our ability to raise additional funds. Our facilities are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake could disrupt our operations and adversely effect results. All of our operations are conducted in a single facility built on landfill in an area of California near active geologic faults which historically have caused major earthquakes from time to time. The office park where the facility is located is approximately at sea level behind levees sheltering the buildings from the San Francisco Bay. In the event of a significant earthquake, we could experience significant damage and business interruption for which we are not insured. Industry Risks Our activities involve hazardous materials and improper handling of these materials by our employees or agents could expose us to significant legal and financial penalties. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including infectious agents, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Our organic chemists use solvents, such as chloroform, isopropyl alcohol and ethanol, corrosives such as hydrochloric acid and highly flammable materials, some of which are pressurized, such as hydrogen. We use radioactive compounds in small quantities under license from the State of California, including Carbon(14), Cesium(137), Chromium(51), Hydrogen(3), Iodine(125), Phosphorus(32), Phosphorus(33) and Sulfur(35). Our biologists use biohazardous materials, such as bacteria, fungi, parasites, viruses and blood and tissue products. We also handle chemical, medical and radioactive waste, byproducts of our research, through licensed contractors. As a consequence, we are subject to numerous 15 Table of Contents environmental and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Federal, state and local governments may adopt additional laws and regulations affecting us in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, current or future laws or regulations. Although we believe that our safety procedures for using, handling, storing and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials and we could be liable for any civil damages that result, the cost of which could be substantial. Further, any failure by us to control the use, disposal, removal or storage of, or to adequately restrict the discharge of, or assist in the cleanup of, hazardous chemicals or hazardous, infectious or toxic substances could subject us to significant liabilities, including joint and several liability under state or federal statutes. We do not specifically insure against environmental liabilities or risks regarding our handling of hazardous materials. Additionally, an accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our research facilities and operations. We may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance on commercially reasonable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities in order to protect ourselves against product liability claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human therapeutic products. We may become subject to product liability claims if someone alleges that the use of our products injured subjects or patients. This risk exists for products tested in human clinical trials as well as products that are sold commercially. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are customary for companies of our size and in our industry and sufficient for risks we typically face, we may not be able to maintain this type of insurance in a sufficient amount. There is no assurance that product liability insurance will continue to be available in the future at a cost or on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities which could harm our business by requiring us to use our resources to pay potential claims. Risks Relating to Owning Our Stock Because our stock is volatile, the value of your investment in Genelabs may substantially decrease. The market price of our common stock, like the stock prices of many publicly traded biopharmaceutical companies, has been and will probably continue to be highly volatile. Between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2006, the price of our common stock fluctuated between $2.55 and $0.70 per share. In addition to the factors discussed in this Risk Factors section, a variety of events can impact the stock price. For example, the availability of a large block of stock for sale in relation to our normal trading volume could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, numerous events occurring outside of our control may also impact the price of our common stock, including: • progress of our products through the regulatory process; • results of preclinical studies and clinical trials; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • government regulatory actions affecting our products or our competitors’ products in the United States or foreign countries; • developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in our financial estimates by securities analysts; • general market conditions for emerging growth, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; • broad market fluctuations; and • economic conditions in the United States or abroad. 16 Table of Contents Because the average daily trading volume of our common stock is low, the ability to sell our shares in the secondary trading market may be limited. Because the average daily trading volume of our common stock is low, the liquidity of our common stock may be impaired. As a result, prices for shares of our common stock may be lower than might otherwise prevail if the average daily trading volume of our common stock was higher. The average daily trading volume of our common stock may be low relative to the stocks of exchange-listed companies, which could limit the ability to sell our shares in the secondary trading market. We may incur significant costs from class action litigation. In the past, following periods of large price declines in the public market price of a company’s stock, holders of that stock occasionally have instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our shareholders were to bring this type of lawsuit against us, even if the lawsuit is without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit also could divert the time and attention of our management, which would hurt our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. Exercise of outstanding options and warrants will dilute shareholders and could decrease the market price of our Common Stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had issued and outstanding 24,166,244 shares of Common Stock and outstanding options and warrants to purchase 5,674,835 additional shares of Common Stock and we issued an additional 5,813,942 shares of our Common Stock and warrants to purchase an additional 1,970,913 shares of our Common Stock on February 14, 2007. The existence of the outstanding options and warrants may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock and the terms under which we could obtain additional equity capital. Changes in securities laws and regulations may increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has previously required us to make changes to some of our corporate governance practices. Because we are currently a non-accelerated filer we presently do not have to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and also a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. Beginning with calendar year 2007 we are again required to comply with the requirement for annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls. Beginning with calendar 2008 our auditors will again be required to issue a report addressing those assessments. Additionally, if our market capitalization increases significantly and we become an accelerated filer, our auditors may need to issue such a report for calendar year 2007. The implementation of these compliance matters will likely result in an increase in our general and administrative expenses. We also may determine that we do not have effective controls over financial reporting. There may be other accounting or regulatory changes enacted in the future which would have a disproportionate impact on us compared to other companies because of our small size and our lack of product revenue to provide a source of funds to pay for compliance with the changes, among other reasons. 