Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. A discussion of the policies and procedures used to identify, assess and manage certain risks is set forth under Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Report. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial individually may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. A downgrade of the financial strength rating of Ambac Assurance and/or Ambac UK would adversely affect our business and prospects and, consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance companies currently have triple A financial strength ratings from Moody’s Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, Fitch Inc. and Rating and Investment Information, Inc. The objective of these ratings is to provide an opinion on an insurer’s financial strength and its ability and intent to pay under its insurance policies and contracts in accordance with their terms. The rating is not specific to any particular policy or contract. Financial strength ratings do not refer to an insurer’s ability to meet non-insurance obligations and are not a “market rating” or a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any security. The ratings assigned by Moody’s, S&P, Fitch and R&I to us are subject to periodic review and may be downgraded by one or more rating agencies as a result of: changes in the views of the rating agencies, adverse developments in our financial condition or results of operations due to underwriting or investment losses. Moody’s, S&P, Fitch and R&I’s ratings were reaffirmed in 2005. Any downgrade in our financial strength rating, or the placement of our financial strength rating on negative credit watch, would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and our prospects for future business opportunities, particularly if our competitors in the financial guarantee industry were not downgraded or placed on credit watch. In addition, a downgrade of our financial strength ratings below specified levels would allow credit derivative counterparties to terminate certain agreements, resulting in a possible payment of a settlement amount or we would have to pledge collateral for the benefit of the counterparty. In the event that Ambac Assurance was downgraded, we also may be required to post collateral to our investment agreement and derivative counterparties, introducing liquidity risk. In addition, most investment agreements provide certain remedies for the investment agreement purchaser in the event of a downgrade of Ambac Assurance’s credit rating, typically to A1 by Moody’s or A+ by S&P. In most cases, we are permitted to post collateral or otherwise enhance our credit, prior to an actual draw on the investment agreement. Our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected by any reduction in its ratings. See Item 1 “Business—Rating Agencies” and Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis-Credit Ratings and Collateral” for further information. A downgrade of our long term credit ratings would adversely affect our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. Ambac Financial Group’s long term debt is rated “AA” by S&P and Fitch and “Aa” by Moody’s. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of financing, is dependent on various factors and could be adversely affected by a deterioration of our long-term debt ratings. Long-term debt ratings are influenced by a number of factors. These include, but are not limited to: financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to peers, the composition of the balance sheet and/or capital 28 structure, material changes in earning trends and volatility, inability to dividend monies from Ambac Assurance and our competitive position. Material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a downgrade of our credit ratings, thus increasing the cost of and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. Moreover, if our need for capital arises because of significant sudden losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are subject to credit risk throughout our businesses, including large single risks and correlated risks. We are exposed to the risk that issuers of debt which we have insured (or with respect to which we have written credit derivatives), issuers of debt which we hold in our investment portfolio, reinsurers and other contract counterparties (including derivative counterparties) may default in their financial obligations, whether as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. These credit risks could cause increased losses and loss reserves and mark-to-market losses with respect to credit derivatives in our financial guarantee business; we could be required by the rating agencies to hold additional capital against insured exposures which have been downgraded by the rating agencies; and we could experience losses and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. Such credit risks may be in the form of large single risk exposures to particular issuers, reinsurers or counterparties; losses caused by catastrophic events (including terrorist acts and natural disasters); or losses in respect of different, but correlated, credit exposures. General economic conditions can adversely affect our business results and prospects. Changes in general economic conditions can impact our business. Recessions; increases in corporate, municipal and/or consumer bankruptcies; changes in interest rate levels; changes in domestic and international law, including tax laws; wars; and terrorist acts could adversely affect the performance of our insured portfolio and our investment portfolio, e.g. leading to increases in losses and loss reserves in our insured portfolio and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. Furthermore, reduction in the volume of capital markets transactions; levels of competition; and changes in investor perception of credit risk could adversely impact the volume and pricing of financial guarantee insurance transactions and therefore adversely impact our business prospects. Changes in prevailing interest rate levels could adversely impact our business results and prospects. Increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. In the event that investments must be sold in order to pay claims, such investments would likely be sold at discounted prices. Additionally, increasing interest rates could lead to increased credit stress on consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio; (as the securitized assets supporting a portion of these exposures are floating rate consumer obligations); slower prepayment speeds and resulting “extension risk” relative to such consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio and in our investment portfolio; decreased volume of capital markets activity and, correspondingly, decreased volume of insured transactions. Decreases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the demand for, and pricing of, financial guarantee insurance, since lower absolute interest rates reduce credit spreads and, therefore, 29 the savings realized by issuers by using our core product. Additionally, decreasing interest rates could result in early terminations of financial guarantee insurance policies in respect of which we are paid on an installment basis, thus reducing premium earned in respect of these transactions. Decreases in prevailing interest rates would also reduce investment income. The financial guarantee business is highly competitive. The financial guarantee business is highly competitive and we expect it to remain so in the near future. We face competition from both other financial guarantors and alternatives to third-party credit enhancement. Such alternatives include bank financing, senior/subordinated securitization structures, letters of credit, guarantees and credit derivatives provided primarily by foreign and domestic banks. See Item 1 “Business—Competition” for further information. In addition, our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Over the past few years, there has been increased competition in the financial guarantee business for qualified employees. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees. Adequate capital support may not be available. Financial guarantee insurers, including Ambac Assurance, typically rely on providers of lines of credit, credit swap facilities and similar support mechanisms (often referred to as “soft capital”) to supplement their “hard capital”. The ratings of soft capital providers directly affect the level of capital credit which the rating agencies attribute to the financial guarantee insurer when rating its financial strength. We intend to maintain soft capital facilities with providers having ratings adequate to provide the desired capital credit, although no assurance can be given that one or more of the rating agencies will not downgrade or withdraw the applicable ratings of such providers in the future. In addition, we cannot assure that an acceptable replacement provider would be available in that event. Reductions by the rating agencies in the amount of capital credit that we receive in respect of soft capital facilities would require us to procure additional soft capital. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints could affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. We are a holding company and have no substantial operations of our own or assets other than our ownership of Ambac Assurance, our principal operating subsidiary, and certain other smaller subsidiaries. As such, we are largely dependent on dividends from Ambac Assurance to pay dividends on our capital stock, to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, to pay our operating expenses, to purchase our common stock in the open market and to make capital investment in our subsidiaries. Wisconsin insurance regulations restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by Ambac Assurance, unless certain regulatory requirements are met. The inability of Ambac Assurance to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could affect our ability to repay our debt or have a material adverse effect on our operations. See Item 1 “Business—Wisconsin Dividend Restrictions” for further information. Our risk management policies and practices may not anticipate unforeseen risks and/or the magnitude of potential for loss as the result of foreseen risks. As described in “Item 1 Business—Risk Management”, we have established underwriting policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our insured portfolio. These policies 30 and practices are based in part on models reflecting historical factors, e.g. default rates and severity of loss experience. These policies and practices may not insulate us from risks that are unforeseen and which have unanticipated loss severity. Our net income and earnings could become more volatile due to the application of fair value accounting (FAS 133) to the portion of our credit enhancement business which is executed in credit derivative form. FAS 133 requires that credit derivative transactions be recorded at fair value. Since market prices for the contracts that we execute are not available, Ambac Assurance estimates fair value by using modeling methodologies which are less precise than using quoted market prices. Changes in estimated fair values relative to our credit derivative book can cause increases or decreases in the value of such credit derivative transactions; those changes in value are reported in our financial statements and will therefore affect our reported earnings. Changes in estimated fair values can be caused by general market conditions, perception of credit risk generally and events affecting particular credit derivative transactions (e.g. impairment or improvement of specific reference entities or reference obligations). Changes to accounting rules relating to the financial guarantee industry could have a material adverse affect on us and our industry. In January and February of 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, discussed with financial guarantee industry participants the diversity in practice with respect to their accounting policies for loss reserves. In June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, added a project to its agenda to consider the accounting by financial guarantee insurers for claims liability recognition, premium recognition and deferred acquisition costs. The proposed and final documents are expected to be issued in 2006. When the FASB and/or the SEC reaches a conclusion on this issue, we and the rest of the financial guarantee industry may be required to change some aspects of our loss reserving policies and the potential changes could extend to premium and expense recognition, which in turn could have a material effect on us and the financial guarantee industry. We are subject to extensive regulation in the conduct of our financial guarantee insurance business. Our principal subsidiary, Ambac Assurance, is subject to the insurance laws and regulations of each jurisdiction in which it is licensed. Ambac UK, the subsidiary through which we write financial guarantee insurance in the United Kingdom and in the European Union, is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Failure to comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations could expose us to fines, the loss of insurance licenses in certain jurisdictions and/or the inability to dividend monies to Ambac from Ambac Assurance, all of which could have an adverse impact on our business results and prospects. Additionally, if the cost of complying with these insurance laws and regulations increases materially, this could impact our business results. We are subject to a variety of operational risks which could have a material adverse impact on our business results. We depend on internal processes, risk models, various systems and our employees in the conduct of our business. Any failure of such processes, models and systems and/or employee misconduct or fraud could have an adverse impact on our business results. We are also subject to external operational 31 risks, including fraud, settlement risk and the failure of risk models or other analytical tools provided by third parties. Any such external fraud or failure could have an adverse impact on our business results. Changes in the rating agencies’ capital models and rating methodology with respect to financial guarantee insurers may adversely affect our business results and prospects. Changes in the rating agencies’ capital models and rating methodology could require us to hold more capital against specified credit risks in our insured portfolio. These requirements could place stress on our ratings and force us to raise additional capital, which could in turn result in lower returns on equity. Changes in tax laws impacting marginal tax rates and/or the preferred tax treatment of municipal obligations could adversely impact our business. Tax legislation which imposes a “flat tax” or otherwise changes the tax preference of municipal obligations under current law could adversely affect the market value of municipal obligations. In large part, our investment portfolio is invested in tax-exempt municipal obligations; as such, the value of our investment portfolio could be adversely affected by any such legislation. Additionally, any such changes in tax law could reduce the difference between tax-exempt interest rates and taxable rates. This reduction could adversely impact the financial performance of our interest rate swap business, since we have assumed the “basis risk” between tax-exempt and taxable interest rates in that business. See Item 1 Business – Derivative Products” for further information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Ambac’s investment portfolio includes fixed income investments that were insured by Ambac Assurance Corporation (“Ambac Insured Investments”) at the time such fixed income obligations were issued (commonly referred to as new issue insurance policies). Ambac Insured Investments in the investment portfolio amounted to $681 million at December 31, 2005 and are accounted for as “available for sale” in the investment portfolio. The investments, primarily held by the Financial Services segment, are recorded at fair value which includes the value of the embedded financial guarantee. Beginning in January 2005, several financial guarantee industry participants, including Ambac, received written comments from the SEC staff regarding the proper accounting treatment for Ambac Insured Investments that are in the investment portfolio. Recent discussions with the SEC staff suggest that the staff’s tentative view of the appropriate accounting for Ambac Insured Investments is to extinguish a portion of the contingent guarantee obligation related to the amount acquired. Ambac cannot predict how the SEC staff will resolve this issue and the resulting impact on our consolidated financial statements. Until the issue is resolved, Ambac intends to apply its existing methodology. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located in Part II, Item 8 for further information. In January and February 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) staff discussed with several financial guarantee industry participants, including Ambac, differences in loss reserve recognition practices among those participants. In June 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) added a project to its agenda to consider the accounting of financial guarantee insurance. As part of this project the FASB will consider several aspects of the financial guarantee insurance accounting model, including claims liability recognition, premium recognition and the related deferred acquisition costs. The proposed and final documents are expected to be issued in 2006. When the FASB or SEC staff reach a conclusion on this issue, Ambac and the rest of the financial guarantee industry may be required to change some aspects of their loss reserving, revenue recognition, 32 and/or deferred acquisition accounting policies. Ambac cannot predict how the FASB or SEC staff will resolve this issue and the resulting impact on our consolidated financial statements. Until the issue is resolved, Ambac intends to apply its existing methodology. A further description of Ambac’s accounting for losses and loss expenses can be found in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements located in Part II, Item 8. 