Item 1A. Risk Factors. (1) the fair market value of the stock of the corporation (or, in the case of a consolidated group, generally the stock of the common parent) immediately before the ownership change (with certain adjustments) and (2) the “long-term tax-exempt rate” in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. In general, an “ownership change” occurs if shareholders owning 5 percent or more of the corporation’s stock increase their ownership by greater than 50 percentage points over a three-year testing period. It is likely that Ambac would undergo an “ownership change” for purposes of section 382 of the Tax Code as a result of implementation of a bankruptcy plan of reorganization. Ambac expects to qualify under a special exception contained in Section 382(l)(5) of the Tax Code (the “L5 Exception”) in order to avoid an ownership change as a result of the implementation of the bankruptcy plan of reorganization. In connection with the Bankruptcy Filing, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order (the “Trading Order”) restricting certain transfers of equity interests in and claims against Ambac. The purpose of the Trading Order is to increase the likelihood that Ambac may qualify for the L5 Exception and thereby preserve Ambac’s NOLs. The Trading Order implements notice and hearing procedures for transfers by a person or entity that beneficially owns more than 13,500,000 shares of Ambac stock. Transfers of stock in violation of this Trading Order will be void ab initio. In addition, the Trading Order generally requires persons or entities that beneficially own claims against Ambac totaling more than $55 million (each, a “Substantial Claimholder”) to agree to “sell down” a portion of its claims against Ambac prior to a bankruptcy reorganization, such that the claimholder would receive less than 5 percent of reorganized Ambac’s stock in a bankruptcy plan of reorganization that may qualify for the L5 Exception. Any claimholder who does not comply with the Trading Order would only receive stock in reorganized Ambac equal to less than 5 percent of reorganized Ambac’s outstanding stock. If Ambac does not qualify for the L5 Exception, the bankruptcy plan of reorganization will adversely impact the preservation of, and likely substantially impair, the Ambac Assurance NOL, and some or all of Ambac’s taxable income after the reorganization may be subject to tax. The U.S. federal income tax consequences resulting from the creation of the Segregated Account are uncertain and Ambac Assurance may realize gain or loss in connection with the creation of the Segregated Account. The U.S. federal income tax consequences resulting from the creation of the Segregated Account are uncertain. For example, to the extent the Segregated Account were treated as a separate taxable entity, depending upon the terms of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Plan, gain or loss could be realized by Ambac or the new taxable entity (i.e., the Segregated Account) materially increasing the U.S. federal income tax liability of the relevant party and materially reduce cash available to be pay third party obligations or dividends. Continued uncertainty regarding the European debt crisis may have prolonged adverse consequences on the capital markets which in turn may impact Ambac’s investment results and have negative consequences for certain insured transactions. The uncertainties related to European sovereign and bank default risk have resulted in greater levels of volatility within the capital markets and a “flight to quality” that has helped suppress US interest rates. As a result, reinvestment opportunities have been limited by the overall low level of nominal rates and liquidity for other than the highest quality investments has been constrained. If such market conditions continue for a prolonged period of time they could have a material adverse impact on Ambac’s operating results and financial condition. In addition, stress in the European markets may have an adverse impact on certain obligations insured by Ambac Assurance and Ambac UK that are sensitive to economic conditions in Europe and that are reliant on the European capital markets for financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 43 Table of Contents 