Item 1A. Risk Factors References in the risk factors to “Ambac” are to Ambac Financial Group, Inc. References to “we,” “our” and “us” are to Ambac, Ambac Assurance Corporation, Everspan Financial Guarantee Corp., and Ambac Credit Products LLC as the context requires. Ambac has insufficient capital to finance its debt service and operating expense requirements beyond the second quarter of 2011 and may need to seek bankruptcy protection. Ambac’s capital has diminished significantly. Ambac’s liquidity and solvency, both on a near-term basis and a long-term basis, is largely dependent upon: (i) Ambac Assurance’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock or make other payments to Ambac; (ii) dividends, returns of capital or other proceeds from subsidiaries other than Ambac Assurance; (iii) cash on hand; (iv) external financing; and (v) the residual value of Ambac Assurance. Ambac’s principal uses of liquidity are for the payment of principal (including maturing principal in the amount of $142.5 million in August 2011) and interest on its debt (including annual interest expense of approximately $88.7 million, after taking into account the deferral of interest on the DISCs), its operating expenses, and capital investments in and loans to its subsidiaries. Further, other contingencies (e.g., an unfavorable outcome in the outstanding class action lawsuits against the Company) could cause additional strain on its capital. We are a holding company and have no substantial operations of our own or assets other than our ownership of Ambac Assurance, our principal operating subsidiary, and certain other smaller subsidiaries. As such, we are largely dependent on dividends from Ambac Assurance to, among other things, pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, pay our operating expenses and make capital investments in our subsidiaries. We currently have liquidity sufficient to cover our holding company expenses for at least the next twelve months. As a consequence of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings, the rehabilitator has operational control and decision-making authority with respect to all matters relating to the Segregated Account and has the discretion to oversee and approve certain actions taken by Ambac Assurance in respect of assets and liabilities which remain in Ambac Assurance. In exercising such authority, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of Ambac. In addition, the terms of the Proposed Settlement impose additional restrictions on the ability of Ambac Assurance to pay dividends to us. Therefore, it is highly unlikely that Ambac Assurance will be permitted to make dividend payments to Ambac for the foreseeable future. 36 Table of Contents Under the terms of the proposed Segregated Account Rehabilitation Plan, Ambac Assurance will issue surplus notes to policyholders of the Segregated Account. The aggregate amount of these surplus notes could be substantial, and the surplus notes will rank senior to Ambac’s equity investment in Ambac Assurance. Therefore, the issuance of the surplus notes will reduce Ambac’s equity investment in Ambac Assurance, as any residual value of Ambac Assurance will likely be for the benefit of holders of surplus notes. In addition, as a consequence of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings, the rehabilitator retains significant decision-making authority with respect to the Segregated Account and has the discretion to oversee and approve certain actions taken by Ambac Assurance in respect of assets and liabilities which remain in Ambac Assurance, and such decisions will be for the benefit of policyholders and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of Ambac. Actions taken by the rehabilitator could further reduce the equity value of Ambac Assurance. While Ambac does not believe that the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings constitute an event of default under its debt indentures, debt holders may assert that the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings constitute an event of default and may seek to accelerate the debt. In addition, Ambac may consider, among other things, a negotiated restructuring of its outstanding debt through a prepackaged bankruptcy proceeding or may seek bankruptcy protection without agreement concerning a plan of reorganization with major creditor groups. No assurance can be given that Ambac will be successful in executing any or all of these strategies. While management believes that Ambac will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy its needs through the second quarter of 2011, no guarantee can be given that it will be able to pay all of its operating expenses and debt service obligations thereafter, and its liquidity may run out prior to the second quarter of 2011. Further, Ambac may decide prior to the third quarter of 2010 not to pay interest on its debt. As a result of the commencement of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings, various adverse events in the insured portfolio are likely to be triggered. If injunctions issued by the rehabilitation court enjoining such adverse effects are ineffective, substantial adverse events may occur. The rehabilitation court issued an injunction effective until further order of the court enjoining certain actions by Segregated Account policyholders and other counterparties, including the assertion of damages or acceleration of losses (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in ISDA format) based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions. If the injunction is challenged by policyholders and counterparties and such challenge is successful, such adverse events may occur. Certain parties have indicated to Ambac that they may seek to challenge the injunction. Losses in the Segregated Account would likely increase substantially if the injunction is successfully challenged. The Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings may be the subject of litigation initiated by policyholders whose policies have been allocated to the Segregated Account. As a result of the creation of the Segregated Account and the subsequent Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings, policyholders whose policies were allocated to the Segregated Account may commence litigation. Such litigation could cause Ambac to incur additional legal expenses, which could be substantial, thereby reducing the overall value of the enterprise. In addition, if such litigation were successful, the OCI may decide to initiate delinquency proceedings against Ambac Assurance, resulting in counterparties asserting damages or acceleration of losses (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in ISDA format) based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions, thereby reducing the residual value of Ambac Assurance. Consummation of the Proposed Settlement may result in litigation initiated by policyholders who are not parties to the Proposed Settlement. Policyholders who are not parties to the Proposed Settlement may initiate litigation claiming that they would not be treated fairly as compared to policyholders who are parties to the Proposed Settlement. Such litigation could cause Ambac to incur additional legal expenses, which could be substantial, thereby reducing the overall 37 Table of Contents value of the enterprise. In addition, if such litigation were successful, the OCI may decide to initiate delinquency proceedings against Ambac Assurance, resulting in counterparties asserting damages or acceleration of losses (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in ISDA format) based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions, thereby reducing the residual value of Ambac Assurance. The terms of the Proposed Settlement are not yet final and may change, and the Proposed Settlement may not be consummated at all. On March 24, 2010, Ambac Assurance reached a non-binding agreement with the Counterparties to outstanding credit default swaps with Ambac Credit Products that were guaranteed by Ambac Assurance. The Proposed Settlement contemplates that Ambac Assurance will enter into a settlement agreement with the Counterparties, pursuant to which it will commute all of its ABS CDO obligations owed by Ambac Assurance to the Counterparties. The Proposed Settlement is not a binding agreement, and there can be no assurance that the Proposed Settlement will be consummated. If the Proposed Settlement is not consummated, such counterparties may terminate their CDS contracts, thus liquidating large mark-to-market claims in respect of ABS CDO obligations. Decisions made by the rehabilitator for the benefit of policyholders may result in material adverse consequences for Ambac’s securityholders. As a consequence of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings, the rehabilitator retains operational control and decision-making authority with respect to all matters related to the Segregated Account. Similarly, by virtue of the contracts executed between Ambac Assurance and the Segregated Account in connection with the establishment and rehabilitation of the Segregated Account, the rehabilitator retains the discretion to oversee and approve certain actions taken by Ambac Assurance in respect of assets and liabilities which remain in Ambac Assurance. In exercising such authority, the rehabilitator will act for the benefit of policyholders, and will not take into account the interests of securityholders of Ambac. Decisions made by the rehabilitator for the benefit of policyholders may result in material adverse consequences for Ambac’s securityholders. As a result of Ambac Assurance’s financial condition, OCI could commence delinquency proceedings with respect to Ambac Assurance. While the rehabilitation of the Segregated Account does not directly impact policies held in the general account of Ambac Assurance, OCI has generally increased its regulatory oversight of the company. In addition, while management does not currently believe that the OCI would seek to place Ambac Assurance in rehabilitation, unexpected events, such as, among other things, increased losses on policies held in the general account, a successful challenge of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings or the failure to consummate the Proposed Settlement, could prompt the initiation of delinquency proceedings with respect to Ambac Assurance. Delinquency proceedings with respect to Ambac Assurance could result in counterparties asserting damages or acceleration of losses (including mark-to-market claims with respect to insured transactions executed in ISDA format) based on early termination triggers and the loss of control rights in insured transactions, thereby reducing the residual value of Ambac Assurance. We are subject to dispute risk in connection with our reinsurance agreements. In addition to having credit exposure to our reinsurance counterparties, we are exposed to the risk that reinsurance counterparties may dispute their obligations to make payments required by applicable reinsurance agreements, including scheduled payments and payments due in connection with the termination of reinsurance agreements. Such disputes could result in our being unable to collect all amounts due from reinsurers and/or collecting such amounts after potentially lengthy dispute resolution processes. 38 Table of Contents Our common stock may be delisted as a result of our not meeting the NYSE continued listing requirements. If we do not meet the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) continued listing requirements, the NYSE may take action to delist our common stock. The continued listing requirements of the NYSE applicable to us require, among other things, that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 over 30 consecutive trading days and that the average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period be at least $75 million. Our common stock currently trades below $1.00. On December 8, 2009, we received a notice from the NYSE that we had fallen below the continued listing standard relating to the price of our common stock for a 30 day consecutive period. On December 10, 2009, we informed the NYSE that we intend to cure such deficiency and bring our ordinary share price back to a level that exceeds $1.00 per share, within approximately six months. If at the end of such of such cure period we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock will be subject to delisting. Even if a listed company meets the numerical continued listing criteria, the NYSE reserves the right to assess the suitability of the continued listing of a company on a case-by-case basis whenever it deems appropriate and will consider factors such as unsatisfactory financial condition or operating results. A delisting of our common stock would negatively impact us by, among other factors, reducing the liquidity and likely market price of our common stock and reducing the number of investors willing or able to hold or acquire our common stock, each of which would negatively impact our stock price as well as our ability to raise equity financing. Market risks could adversely impact our assets posted as collateral in respect of investment agreements and interest rate swap and currency swap transactions. As a result of the downgrades of Ambac Assurance’s financial strength rating, we are required to post collateral with respect to certain investment agreements, interest rate swap and currency swap transactions. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Ratings and Collateral” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will be required to post additional collateral if the market value of the assets used to collateralize our obligations under such agreements and transactions declines or, in certain cases, if there are changes in the collateral posting obligations under the interest rate swap and currency swap transactions. These collateral-posting obligations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. At present, these collateral-posting requirements are being satisfied by means of the purchase of assets from the Financial Services businesses by Ambac Assurance and by loans from Ambac Assurance to the Financial Services businesses. As required by Wisconsin law, these transactions were approved by the OCI. To the extent that collateral-posting requirements increase as a result of adverse changes in market conditions, as described above, it is likely that Ambac Assurance would need to provide increased lending capacity to the Financial Services businesses in order to satisfy these collateral-posting obligations. Any such increases to lending capacity would be subject to the prior consent of the OCI; there can be no assurance that we would obtain such consent. We believe that the OCI would consider several factors in determining whether to grant such consent, including its view of Ambac Assurance’s financial condition at the time of such loan or contribution. If the Financial Services businesses fail to post collateral as required, counterparties may be entitled to terminate the transactions. Upon such terminations, we could liquidate securities with unrealized mark-to-market losses which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Ratings and Collateral” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The termination of such transactions would trigger Ambac Assurance’s obligations to make payments under the financial guarantee insurance policies it previously issued. To the extent that the OCI determines that the payment by Ambac Assurance under such policies could place Ambac Assurance in a hazardous condition, the OCI could seize Ambac Assurance and place it into rehabilitation. 39 Table of Contents Risks which impact assets in our investment portfolio could adversely affect our business. Our investment portfolio has been adversely affected by events and developments in the capital markets, including decreased market liquidity for investment assets; market perception of increased credit risk with respect to the types of securities held in our investment portfolio and corresponding credit spread-widening with respect to our investment assets; and extension of the duration of investment assets. Our investment portfolio may be further adversely affected by these and other events and developments in the capital markets, including interest rate movements; downgrades of credit ratings of investment securities and/or financial guarantee insurers which insure investment securities; and foreign exchange movements which impact investment assets. At December 31, 2009, approximately 38% of our investment portfolio is insured by financial guarantors, including Ambac. At December 31, 2009, approximately 12% of our investment portfolio comprises “Alt-A” mortgage-backed securities. Please refer to the table in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Balance Sheet” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, representing the fair value, including the value of the financial guarantee, and weighted-average underlying rating, excluding the financial guarantee, of the insured securities at December 31, 2009. During the course of 2009, management identified and periodically revised certain investment securities in the investment portfolio to potentially sell in connection with plans to reposition the investment portfolio and/or to meet potential liquidity needs. We recorded an impairment charge through income on the portion of those securities which were in an unrealized loss position. Additionally, certain mortgage-backed securities held in our investment portfolio have had significant declines in value. Our analysis of the underlying mortgage loans indicates probable losses for the vast majority of these investments. Accordingly, we have recorded an impairment charge through income for these investments. Please refer to Part II, Item 7—Results of Operations—Other than Temporary Impairment losses of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for further information. The impairments in value in the remaining investment portfolio are not deemed other-than-temporary, as such the remaining unrealized losses have been recognized in other comprehensive income. The following table summarizes amortized cost and estimated fair value of investments at December 31, 2009: AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses EstimatedFair Value Fixed income securities: Municipal obligations $ 3,103,761 $ 117,095 $ 15,376 $ 3,205,480 Corporate obligations 1,020,315 19,003 37,582 1,001,736 Foreign obligations 158,498 10,368 1,215 167,651 U.S. government obligations 352,726 5,229 1,489 356,466 U.S. agency obligations 85,551 5,494 116 90,929 Residential mortgage-backed securities 1,843,031 191,755 96,055 1,938,731 Collaterized debt obligations 79,135 22 22,706 56,451 Other asset-backed securities 1,652,851 1,228 205,640 1,448,439 Short-term 962,007 — — 962,007 Other 1,278 — — 1,278 Total investments $ 9,259,153 $ 350,194 $ 380,179 $ 9,229,168 To the extent we liquidate large blocks of investment assets in order to pay claims under financial guarantee insurance policies, to make payments under investment agreements and/or to collateralize our obligations under investment agreements and interest rate swaps, such investment assets would likely be sold at discounted prices which could be less than the December 31, 2009 fair values shown in the above table. Previously, Ambac Assurance managed its investment portfolio in accordance with rating agency standards for a AAA-rated insurance company. As a result of the significant declines in Ambac Assurance’s financial strength ratings, it is no longer necessary to comply with the strict investment portfolio guidelines of a AAA-rated company. Therefore, Ambac Assurance has decided to invest a portion of its investment portfolio in 40 Table of Contents lower-rated securities in order to increase the investment return on its portfolio. However, the investment in lower-rated securities and “alternative assets” could expose Ambac to increased losses on its investment portfolio in excess of those described above and/or decrease the liquidity of the insured portfolio. In addition, Ambac Assurance’s investment policies will be subject to certain covenants made for the benefit of the Segregated Account and, if the Settlement Agreement is executed, for the benefit of the Counterparties. Further, Ambac Assurance’s investment policies are subject to oversight by the rehabilitator pursuant to contracts entered into between Ambac Assurance and the Segregated Account and, therefore, such policies may change. Any such changes could adversely impact the performance of the investment portfolio. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. The determination of the amount of impairments on our investments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. For example, the cost of our fixed maturity securities is adjusted for impairments in value if deemed to be other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management’s case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. The review of our fixed maturity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. We are subject to credit and liquidity risk due to unscheduled and unanticipated withdrawals on Investment Agreements. Ambac’s Investment Agreement business has issued investment agreements to investors that may allow for early withdrawal (i.e. deviate from a defined or expected withdrawal schedule). The provisions that allow for early withdrawal vary by transaction but include events such as credit events, early call provisions, loss events, construction project development variance and changes in tax code. To the extent we experience an increase in unanticipated withdrawals, the Investment Agreement business may be required to liquidate certain asset holdings. This early liquidation of asset holdings may result in a realized loss. 41 Table of Contents Ultimate actual claim payments on our CDO of ABS and other credit derivative exposures could materially exceed on a present value basis our current disclosed estimates of impairment. As of December 31, 2009, Ambac reported a total of $2.3 billion of mark-to-market liabilities on CDO of ABS exposures, whereas our estimated credit impairment totaled $4.2 billion related to these collateralized debt obligations of asset-backed securities (“CDO of ABS”) backed primarily by mezzanine level subprime residential mortgage-backed securities (“Subprime MBS”). Pursuant to the terms of the Proposed Settlement, Ambac has agreed to settle its outstanding CDO of ABS exposures by transferring to the Counterparties in the aggregate (i) $2.6 billion in cash and (ii) $2 billion of newly issued surplus notes of Ambac Assurance. There can be no assurance, however, that the terms of the Proposed Settlement will not change or will ultimately be consummated. Additionally, if the Proposed Settlement is not consummated as a result of litigation or any other reason, the Counterparties may assert mark-to-market termination claims in respect of the ABS CDO exposures, which, if upheld, would substantially increase losses in the insured portfolio. An estimate for credit impairment has been established because it is management’s expectation that Ambac will have to make claim payments on these exposures in the future. Such credit impairment estimates are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the probability of default and the severity of loss upon default of the CDOs. The purpose of credit impairment estimates is to capture management’s expectation about future claims and do not reflect management’s expectations about stressed or “worst case” outcomes. Credit impairment estimates are only established when management has observed significant credit deterioration, in most cases, when the underlying credit is considered by us to be below investment grade. Many factors will affect ultimate performance or impairment of our credit derivative exposures, including volatility in the capital markets, volatility of the future LIBOR curve (which could impact our estimates of future interest payments on our guaranteed obligations), macroeconomic factors such as interest rates and employment levels, conditions in the residential housing and residential mortgage markets and downgrades by the rating agencies of mortgage-backed securities within our CDO of ABS exposures. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the actual payments we are ultimately required to make in respect of our CDO of ABS and other credit derivative exposures will not materially exceed our current disclosed estimates. Uncertainty with respect to the ultimate performance of certain of our credit derivative exposures may result in substantial changes to our impairment estimates. Various third-party market participants have made estimates of our losses, estimates of credit impairments and mark-to-market losses that in some cases materially exceed the amounts we have reported. Various third-party securities analysts, consultants and other market participants have made estimates of our loss and credit impairment amounts under various scenarios. In light of various factors, including, without limitation, the volatility in the capital markets, the limited liquidity for certain classes of securities and the various assumptions about the future that are inherent in making such estimates, including estimates regarding the performance of RMBS and the housing market more generally, these third-party estimates vary widely. In the event that our ultimate losses and credit impairments approach some of these third-party estimates, such losses and credit impairments would have a materially adverse effect on our performance and financial position. Loss reserves may not be adequate to cover potential losses; changes in loss reserves may result in further volatility of net income and earnings. Loss reserves established with respect to our non-derivative financial guarantee insurance business are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the probability of default, the severity of loss upon default and estimated remediation recoveries for, among other things, breaches by the issuer of representations and warranties. Loss reserves are established when management has observed credit deterioration, in most cases, when the underlying credit is considered below investment grade. Furthermore, the objective of establishing loss reserve estimates is not to reflect the worst possible outcome. As such, there can be no assurance that the actual losses in our financial guarantee insurance portfolio will not exceed our loss reserves. A further description of our accounting for loss and loss expenses can be found in Note 2 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 42 Table of Contents In sizing loss reserves with respect to our mortgage-related insurance exposures, we take account of expected recoveries from originators of the related mortgage-backed securities transactions, which were $2,026.3 million at December 31, 2009. Expected recoveries derive from contractual provisions in the related transaction documents, which require that the originator repurchase securitized mortgage loans which do not conform to representations and warranties given by the originator at the time that the mortgage-backed securities were issued. After a forensic exercise in which we examine loan files to ascertain whether the loans conformed to the representations and warranties, we submit nonconforming loans to the originator for repurchase. Originators may dispute that such loans are nonconforming; additionally, we may be unable to enforce the repurchase remedy due to deterioration of the originator’s financial position. In addition, a portion of the expected recoveries are derived from estimated amounts of loans with material breaches of representations and warranties, based on an extrapolation of the breach rate identified in a random sample of loans. While we believe that the method used for extrapolating estimated recoveries with respect to such transactions is appropriate, such amounts may vary, had we reviewed the loans in such transactions on a loan-by-loan basis. Please see Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of our subrogation and remediation efforts. As a consequence of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings, the rehabilitator retains operational control and decision-making authority with respect to all matters related to the Segregated Account, including surveillance, remediation and loss mitigation. Similarly, by virtue of the contracts executed between Ambac Assurance and the Segregated Account in connection with the establishment, and subsequent rehabilitation, of the Segregated Account, the rehabilitator retains the discretion to oversee and approve certain actions taken by Ambac Assurance in respect of assets and liabilities which remain in Ambac Assurance. As a result, any efforts to remediate losses shall be subject to the approval of, and any actions taken by, the rehabilitator. We are not able to predict the impact such oversight will have on the remediation of losses, nor whether the rehabilitator will pursue such remediation as vigorously as we have done in the past. In addition, as a result of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Proceedings, certain key personnel have chosen to leave Ambac, and additional people may decide to leave. The loss of such personnel could adversely impact Ambac’s remediation efforts. Additionally, inherent in our estimates of loss severities and remediation recoveries is the assumption that we will retain control rights in respect of our insured portfolio. However, we are subject to the loss of control rights in many insured transactions, in the event that we are the subject of delinquency proceedings and/or other regulatory actions which could result from our deteriorated financial position. In the event that we lose control rights, our ability to mitigate loss severities and realize remediation recoveries will be compromised, and actual ultimate losses in our insured portfolio could exceed our loss reserves. On March 24, 2010, the rehabilitation court issued an injunction effective until further order of the court enjoining certain actions by holders of policies in the Segregated Account and other counterparties, including the loss of control rights. If this injunction were successfully challenged, Ambac Assurance could lose its control rights with respect to policies in the Segregated Account. Uncertainty with respect to the ultimate performance of certain of our insured exposures may result in substantial changes in loss reserves. Correspondingly, such changes to loss reserves would affect our reported earnings. If we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet the increase in loss reserves, our insurance operating subsidiaries may become insolvent. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees or the loss of any of these personnel could negatively impact our business. Our ability to mitigate losses in Ambac Assurance’s insured portfolio and in the Segregated Account depends on the retention and recruitment of qualified executives and other professionals. We rely substantially upon the services of our current executive team. In addition to these officers, we require key staff with insurance, investment, accounting and administrative skills. As a result of the establishment of the Segregated Account and 43 Table of Contents the implementation of rehabilitation proceedings against it, there may be an increased risk that executive officers and other key staff will leave the company and replacements may not be incented to join the company. For example, effective April 28, 2010, Gregory G. Raab, the former Chief Risk Officer, has resigned. The loss of the services of members of our senior management team, or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy, which could negatively impact our business. We are subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory inquiries or investigations, and the outcome of proceedings we are or may become involved in could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. Ambac, and certain of its present and former officers and directors, have been named in lawsuits that allege violations of the federal securities laws and/or state law. Ambac also has been named in several lawsuits relating to transactions entered into by its financial guarantee subsidiary, Ambac Assurance, and its financial services businesses. In addition, Ambac has received various regulatory inquiries and requests for information. Please see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for information on these various proceedings. It is not possible to predict whether additional suits will be filed or whether additional inquiries or requests for information will be made, and it is also not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, inquiries or requests for information. It is possible that there could be unfavorable outcomes in these or other proceedings. Management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes or of the expenses that will be incurred in defending these lawsuits. Under some circumstances, adverse results in any such proceedings and/or the incurrence of significant litigation expenses could be material to our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. Difficult economic and other conditions may adversely affect our business results and prospects and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. The decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. In addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline in asset values. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under bilateral derivatives and other contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government actions. Banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. 44 Table of Contents Beginning in 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, and although asset values have begun to improve, there can be no assurances that such recoveries are sustainable, and, furthermore, access to liquidity continues to be very limited. Such changes in general economic and other conditions have impacted, and may continue to impact, our business, as well as increases in corporate, municipal and/or consumer bankruptcies; increases in defaults and delinquencies on consumer debt (e.g., debt related to credit cards, student loans, auto loans and mortgage and home equity loans) and resulting stress on asset-backed securities and mortgage-backed securities; changes in interest rate levels; continued dislocation and lack of liquidity in the credit and financial markets; changes in domestic and international laws, including tax laws and bankruptcy laws; intervention by governments or courts in financial markets, including the imposition of limits on the ability of mortgagees to foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans and/or to increase interest rates on mortgage loans in accordance with original contract terms; wars and terrorist acts; natural disasters, including earthquakes, floods, windstorms and wildfires; and rising energy, fuel and utility costs could adversely affect the performance of our insured portfolio and our investment portfolio, e.g., leading to increases in losses and loss reserves in our insured portfolio and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to difficult capital markets and economic conditions, the U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other governmental regulatory bodies have undertaken several initiatives in an attempt to stabilize the capital markets and stimulate economic growth. These initiatives have included the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, popularly known as the “stimulus package”; the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which established the HOPE for Homeowners program providing for mortgage assistance for homeowners at risk of foreclosure; the Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan, a $75 billion program intended to help up to 7 to 9 million homeowners restructure or refinance their mortgages to avoid foreclosure; and the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which provides broad discretion to the Secretary of the Treasury to implement a program for the purchase of up to $700 billion in troubled assets from banks and financial institutions and the so-called “Public-Private Investment Program” which is intended to generate $500 billion in purchasing power to buy toxic assets backed by mortgages and other loans, with the potential to expand to $1 trillion over time. It is too early to predict with certainty what impact these measures may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. Federal and state governments could pass additional legislation responsive to current credit conditions. We believe that the actions described above, together with additional actions announced by the Treasury and other regulatory agencies, have had a modestly positive effect on the financial markets in the short term, but their ultimate effectiveness and the way they may result in restructuring the financial markets remains uncertain. There can be no assurances that once these initiatives expire, any comparable legislation will be enacted. The existing levels of volatility and limited availability of credit may continue to affect all financial institutions. Adequate capital support and liquidity is likely not available. Financial guarantee insurers, including Ambac Assurance, have historically relied on reinsurers, contingent capital facilities and similar support mechanisms (often referred to as “soft capital”) to supplement their “hard capital.” Ambac Assurance no longer has any contingent capital facility in place, and there can be no assurances that Ambac Assurance will be able to put such a facility in place. Given the loss of confidence in our financial position, the downgrades in our ratings and the unavailability of credit generally, we have limited access to our traditional sources of soft capital. The recent stressed credit environment has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the financial strength of most of the reinsurers previously used by Ambac. 45 Table of Contents We are subject to credit risk and other risks related to RMBS and CDOs of ABS. We have insured, and written credit default swaps (“CDS”), with respect to RMBS (including transactions comprised of second lien mortgage products, home equity line of credit (“HELOCs”), closed end second mortgage loans and Alt-A, or mid-prime, loans) and CDOs of ABS and are thus exposed to credit risk associated with those asset classes. Performance of these transactions can be adversely affected by general economic conditions, including a recession, rising unemployment rates, declining house prices, increasing foreclosure rates and unavailability of consumer credit; mortgage product attributes, such as interest rate adjustments and balloon payment obligations; borrower and/or originator fraud; financial difficulty experienced by mortgage servicers; and, particularly in the case of CDOs of ABS, transaction-specific factors such as the lack of control of the underlying collateral security which can result in a senior creditor determining to liquidate underlying assets to the disadvantage of mezzanine and subordinated creditors and disputes between creditors with respect to the interpretation of legal documents governing the particular transaction. RMBS and CDOs of ABS exposures which we have written in the form of CDS are recorded at fair value subject to the relevant derivative accounting guidance. Changes in estimated fair values relative to our credit derivative book have caused decreases in the value of such credit derivative transactions; those changes in value are reported in our financial statements and have therefore affected our reported earnings. Similarly, further decreases or increases in estimated fair values in the future can affect our reported earnings. Changes in the estimated fair values of these CDS can be caused by general market conditions, perception of credit risk generally and events affecting particular credit derivative transactions (including those described above) and actual impairment of those transactions. While further deterioration in the performance of consumer assets, including mortgage-related assets, credit cards, student loans and auto loans and leases, is generally expected, the extent and duration of any future continued deterioration of the credit markets is unknown, as is the impact, if any, on potential claim payments and ultimate losses of the securities within Ambac Assurance’s portfolio. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to address such credit deterioration in the markets will be successful, and there is no way to know the effect that any such initiatives could have on the credit performance over time of the actual securities that Ambac Assurance insures. In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful, or that we would not be delayed, in enforcing the subordination provisions, credit enhancements or other contractual provisions of the RMBS and CDOs of ABS that Ambac Assurance insures in the event of litigation or the bankruptcy of other transaction parties. Many of the subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions of the RMBS and CDOs of ABS that Ambac Assurance insures are untested in the market and, therefore, it is uncertain how such subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions will be interpreted in the event of an action for enforcement. We are subject to credit risk throughout our businesses, including large single risks, correlated risks and reinsurance counterparty credit risk. We are exposed to the risk that issuers of debt which we have insured (or with respect to which we have written credit derivatives), issuers of debt which we hold in our investment portfolio, reinsurers and other contract counterparties (including derivative counterparties) may default in their financial obligations, whether as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. These credit risks could cause increased losses and loss reserves, estimates of credit impairments and mark-to-market losses with respect to credit derivatives in our financial guarantee business; and we could experience losses and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. Such credit risks may be in the form of large single risk exposures to particular issuers, reinsurers or counterparties; losses caused by catastrophic events (including terrorist acts and natural disasters); or losses in respect of different, but correlated, credit exposures. As of December 31, 2009, we have credit exposure to our reinsurance counterparties through reinsurance contracts of approximately $31.8 billion or 7.5% of our gross par outstanding. No single reinsurance counterparty 46 Table of Contents represents more than 15% of the $31.8 billion in par ceded, except for Assured Guaranty Re Limited, to which we have reinsured $26 billion of par. In the event that we are required to make claim payments on policies that have been reinsured, we are at risk that such counterparties will fail to fulfill their payment obligations to us. For additional information on our reinsurers, see Item 7A, “Risk Management—Credit Risk” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Finally, a material deterioration in the capital levels of our reinsurance counterparties may reduce the amount of statutory capital relief provided by our reinsurance arrangements, and could result in our failure to meet our own statutory capital requirements. See the table included in “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K on the financial strength ratings of Ambac’s reinsurers as well as the amounts due from such reinsurers that are not secured by collateral. Our underwriting and risk management policies and practices in the past have not anticipated unforeseen risks and/or the magnitude of potential for loss as the result of foreseen risks. As described in Part I, Item 1, “Business—Risk Management” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have established underwriting and risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our insured portfolio. These policies and practices in the past have not insulated us from risks that were unforeseen and which had unanticipated loss severity, and such policies and practices may not do so in the future. There can be no assurance that these policies and practices will be adequate to avoid future losses. We also rely on internally and externally developed complex financial models which additionally may have been reviewed by third parties to analyze and predict performance of the insured obligations. Flaws in these financial models and/or faulty assumptions used by these financial models could lead to increased losses and loss reserving. Revenues and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to a decline in realization of installment premiums and transaction-related recoveries. Due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, Ambac Assurance has an embedded future revenue stream. The amount of installment premiums actually realized by Ambac Assurance could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations or insufficiency of cash flows (by the premium paying entity). Additionally, the imposition of a payment moratorium with respect to policies in the Segregated Account may result in the loss of installment premium income or future recoveries from such insured transactions. Such reductions would result in lower revenues. Changes in prevailing interest rate levels could adversely impact our business results and prospects. Increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. In the event that investments must be sold in order to pay claims or to meet Financial Services liquidity needs due to contract terminations or collateral posting requirements, such investments would likely be sold at discounted prices. Additionally, increasing interest rates would have an adverse impact on our insured portfolio. For example, increasing interest rates could result in higher claim payments in respect of defaulted obligations which bear interest at floating rates of interest. Higher interest rates can also lead to increased credit stress on consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio (as the securitized assets supporting a portion of these exposures are floating rate consumer obligations); slower prepayment speeds and resulting “extension risk” relative to such consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio and in our investment portfolio; decreased volume of capital markets activity and, correspondingly, decreased volume of insured transactions. Decreasing interest rates could result in early terminations of financial guarantee insurance policies in respect of which we are paid on an installment basis and do not receive a termination premium, thus reducing premium earned in respect of these transactions. Decreases in prevailing interest rates may also limit growth of or reduce investment income. 47 Table of Contents Our net income and earnings have become more volatile due to the application of fair value accounting, required under the relevant derivative accounting guidance, to the portion of our credit enhancement business which is executed in credit derivative form. The derivative accounting guidance requires that credit derivative transactions be recorded at fair value. Since quoted market prices for the contracts that we execute are not available, we estimate fair value by using modeling methodologies which are less precise than using quoted market prices. Changes in estimated fair values relative to our credit derivative book have caused decreases in the value of such credit derivative transactions; those changes in value are reported in our financial statements and have therefore affected our reported earnings. Similarly, further decreases or increases in estimated fair values in the future can affect our reported earnings. Changes in estimated fair values can be caused by general market conditions, uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of residential mortgage losses and the quality of high yield corporate loans, perception of credit risk generally and events affecting particular credit derivative transactions (e.g. impairment or improvement of specific reference entities or reference obligations) and perception of the credit risk posed by Ambac Assurance as insurer of the CDS. Changes to accounting rules relating to consolidation guidance could have a material adverse affect on us. In December 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance which amends the consolidation guidance related to variable interest entities. We must apply this new standard effective January 1, 2010, and implementation of this standard requires us to make major operational and system changes. It may be difficult for Ambac to make all such changes in a controlled manner by the end of the first reporting period subsequent to the effective date. Failure to make these changes by the end of the first reporting period subsequent to the effective date could have a material adverse impact on Ambac, including our ability to produce financial reports on a timely basis. Ambac continues to evaluate the implications of the new accounting guidance on its financial statements. See Part II, Item 8 Future Application of Accounting Standards in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more discussion. We are subject to extensive regulation in the conduct of our financial guarantee insurance business; application of and/or amendments to, these insurance laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business results, the Company and Ambac Assurance. Our principal subsidiary, Ambac Assurance, is subject to the insurance laws and regulations of each jurisdiction in which it is licensed. Ambac UK, the subsidiary through which we write financial guarantee insurance in the United Kingdom and in the European Union, is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Failure to comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations (including, without limitation, minimum surplus requirements, aggregate risk limits and single risk limits) could expose us to fines, the loss of insurance licenses in certain jurisdictions, the imposition of orders by regulators with respect to the conduct of business by Ambac Assurance and/or the inability of Ambac Assurance to dividend monies to us, all of which could have an adverse impact on our business results and prospects. Recently, there have been legislative and regulatory initiatives with respect to the regulation of financial guarantee insurance companies. Any changes to such laws and regulations could subject Ambac Assurance to increased reserving and capital requirements or more stringent regulation generally, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and future business. See Part I, Item 1 “Business—Insurance Regulatory Matters” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. We are subject to the compliance requirements of the federal securities laws. We are subject to extensive regulation under the federal securities laws, both as a registrant under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and in the conduct of our financial guarantee insurance business. In the event that we were unable to comply with the federal securities laws, we 48 Table of Contents would likely be unable to access the public capital markets, which would make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital and/or increase the cost of capital. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of operational risks which could have a material adverse impact on our business results. We depend on internal processes, risk models, various systems and our employees in the conduct of our business. Any failure of such processes, models and systems and/or employee misconduct or fraud could have an adverse impact on our business results. We are also subject to external operational risks, including fraud, settlement risk and the failure of risk models or other analytical tools provided by third parties. Any such external fraud or failure could have an adverse impact on our business results. Investors may become “controllers” of Ambac Financial Group, Inc. for the purposes of UK law and may require prior approval of UK’s Financial Services Authority. As a result of Ambac Financial Group, Inc. being the holding company of Ambac UK and Ambac Credit Products Limited, the prior consent of the UK’s Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) will be required for any individual, group or institution who proposes to take a step that would result in becoming Controller of or increasing control over Ambac UK and Ambac Credit Products Limited. Broadly, in respect of the FSA’s consent, where an individual person or body corporate, inter alia: (a) holds 10 percent or more of the shares in a parent undertaking (“P”) of a company undertaking a regulated activity (“A”); or (b) is able to exercise significant influence over the management of P through his shareholding in P; or (c) is able to exercise significant influence over the management of P through his voting power in P; or (d) is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10 percent or more of the voting power in P, then such person will be a Controller of A, in this case A being Ambac UK and Ambac Credit Products Limited. Any proposed changes in either existing Controllers or the appointment of new Controllers must first be approved by the FSA. Any such acquisition which occurs without first obtaining this consent could lead to criminal sanctions. Section 189 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 confers powers on the FSA to impose one or more of the following restrictions on a proposed Controller if such approval is not given: (a) the transfer of existing shares or the right to be issued new or further shares is void; (b) no further voting rights are exercisable in respect of the shares acquired without approval; no further shares are to be issued in respect of the shares accepted without approval; and (c) except in a liquidation, no payment is to be made of any sum due from the body corporate on the shares acquired, whether in respect of capital or otherwise. The court also has the power to make such order relating to the sale or transfer of the shares as it thinks fit on the application of the FSA. A person who is already an approved controller by virtue of holding 10 percent or more of the shares in the Company or being entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10 percent or more of the voting power in the Company will nevertheless require the prior approval of the FSA if it wishes to increase its level of control beyond certain specified percentages. These are 20 percent, 33 percent and 50 percent. 49 Table of Contents There are limitations on the voting rights attached to our shares of common stock. Our subsidiary, Ambac Assurance, is a Wisconsin corporation and is subject to the insurance and regulatory laws of the State of Wisconsin. Under Wisconsin insurance holding company laws, there is a presumption that a holder of 10% or more of our voting stock controls Ambac Assurance and any such acquisition of control requires the prior approval of the OCI of the State of Wisconsin. Section 4.5 of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no stockholder may cast votes with respect to 10% or more of our voting stock, regardless of the actual number of shares of voting stock beneficially held by the stockholder. In addition, any voting stock held by a stockholder in excess of 10% will not count in the calculation of or toward a quorum at any meeting of stockholders. In order to avoid these restrictions, a stockholder who acquires or owns 10% or more of our voting stock must have such acquisition or ownership previously approved by the OCI of the State of Wisconsin or file a disclaimer of “control” approved by such office. The foregoing provisions of the Wisconsin insurance holding company laws and legal restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or the removal of incumbent management. Characterization of losses on CDS portfolio as capital losses for U.S. federal tax purposes could result in a material assessment for federal income taxes. Ambac Assurance’s CDS portfolio has experienced significant losses as of December 31, 2009. The majority of these CDS contracts are on a “pay as you go” basis, and we believe that they are properly characterized as notional principal contracts for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Generally, losses on notional principal contracts are ordinary losses. However, the federal income tax treatment of credit default swaps is an unsettled area of the tax law. As such, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service may decide that the “pay as you go” CDS contracts should be characterized as capital assets or that certain payments made with respect to the CDS contracts should be characterized as capital losses. Although, as discussed above, Ambac Assurance believes these contracts are properly characterized as notional principal contracts, if the Internal Revenue Service today were to successfully assert that these contracts should be characterized as capital assets or as generating capital losses, Ambac Assurance would be subject to both a substantial reduction in its net operating loss carryforwards and would suffer a material assessment for federal income taxes. Such assessments would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Changes in tax laws impacting marginal tax rates and/or the preferred tax treatment of municipal obligations could adversely impact our business. Tax legislation which imposes a “flat tax” or otherwise changes the tax preference of municipal obligations under current law could adversely affect the market value of municipal obligations. A significant portion of our investment portfolio is invested in tax-exempt municipal obligations; as such, the value of our investment portfolio could be adversely affected by any such legislation. Additionally, any such changes in tax law could reduce the difference between tax-exempt interest rates and taxable rates. This reduction could adversely impact the financial performance of our interest rate swap business, since, in certain interest swap transactions, we have assumed the “basis risk” between tax-exempt and taxable interest rates in that business. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Derivative Products” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for further information. Depending upon the final terms of the Surplus Notes and the final terms of the Settlement Agreement Ambac Assurance may no longer be characterized as a member of the U.S. federal income tax consolidated group of which the Company is the common parent. Depending upon the final terms of the Surplus Notes and the final terms of the Settlement Agreement and the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Plan, it is possible the Surplus Notes may be characterized as equity of Ambac Assurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the Surplus Notes are characterized as equity of Ambac Assurance and it is determined the Surplus Notes represent more than twenty (20) percent of the total 50 Table of Contents value of the stock of Ambac Assurance, Ambac Assurance may no longer be characterized as an includable corporation that is affiliated with the Company. As a result, Ambac Assurance may no longer be characterized as a member of the U.S. federal income tax consolidated group of which the Company is the common parent (the “Company Consolidated Tax Group”) and Ambac Assurance would be required to file a separate consolidated tax return as the common parent of a new U.S. federal income tax consolidated group including Ambac Assurance as the new common parent and Ambac Assurance’s affiliated subsidiaries (the “AAC Consolidated Tax Group”). To the extent Ambac Assurance is no longer a member of the Company Consolidated Tax Group, Ambac Assurance’s NOL (and certain other available tax attributes of Ambac Assurance and the other members of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group) may no longer be available for use by the Company or any of the remaining members of the Company Consolidated Tax Group to reduce the U.S. federal income tax liabilities of the Company Consolidated Tax Group. This could result in a material increase in the tax liabilities of the Company Consolidated Tax Group, reducing the cash available to pay third party obligations or dividends. In addition, certain other benefits resulting from U.S. federal income tax consolidation may no longer be available to the Company Consolidated Tax Group including certain favorable rules relating to transactions occurring between members of the Company Consolidated Tax Group and members of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group. The Ambac Assurance NOL (and certain other tax attributes or tax benefits of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group) may be subject to limitation including the limitation provided by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. If the Surplus Notes are characterized as equity of Ambac Assurance and it is determined the Surplus Notes represent more than fifty (50) percent of the total value of the stock of Ambac Assurance, the Ambac Assurance NOL (and certain other tax attributes or tax benefits of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group) may be subject to limitation including the limitation provided by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). If Section 382 were applicable with respect to the AAC Consolidated Tax Group, in general the AAC Consolidated Tax Group annual use of the group’s NOL may be limited to an amount equal to the product of (i) the value of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group’s stock and (ii) the applicable federal long term tax exempt interest rate. The potential Code Section 382 limitation with respect to the Ambac Assurance NOL could result in a material increase in the U.S. federal income tax liability of the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group and materially reduce cash available to be pay third party obligations or dividends. However, certain exemptions to the Code Section 382 limitation may be applicable. In light of these potential exemptions, the parties to the proposed Settlement Agreement have agreed to consider in good faith certain alternative proposals intended to mitigate the risk that the issuance of the Surplus Notes will adversely impact the preservation of Ambac Assurance’s NOL, so long as implementation of such alternative proposal would not adversely affect the interest of the Counterparties The AAC Consolidated Tax Group may not be permitted to reconsolidate with the Company Consolidated Tax Group for a period of five years following the issuance of the Surplus Notes and the Ambac Assurance NOL (and certain other tax attributes or tax benefits of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group) may be subject to limitation including the limitation provided by Code Section 382 following any permitted reconsolidation. Furthermore, to the extent Ambac Assurance is no longer characterized as a member of the Company Consolidated Tax Group, the AAC Consolidated Tax Group may not reconsolidate with the Company Consolidated Tax Group for a period of five years following such event even if the Company were to be characterized as reacquiring or owning eighty (80) percent or more of the stock of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group following any deconsolidation. In addition, depending upon certain facts related to the potential deconsolidation of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group and any reconsolidation with the Company Consolidated Tax Group, the acquisition by the Company Consolidated Tax Group of additional value with respect to the stock of the AAC Consolidated Tax Group may also result in the imposition of a Code Section 382 limitation with respect to the AAC Consolidated Tax Group’s NOL reducing or eliminating the potential tax benefit of the NOLs to the Company Consolidated Tax Group. The potential limit on reconsolidation and the potential Code 51 Table of Contents Section 382 limitation with respect to the Ambac Assurance NOL could result in a material increase in the U.S. federal income tax liability of the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group and/or the Ambac Consolidated Tax Group and materially reduce cash available to be pay third party obligations or dividends. The proposed amended tax sharing agreement may reduce the cash available to the Company limiting the Company’s ability to service its obligations to third parties. The Settlement Participants have covenanted that the existing tax sharing agreement among the members of the Company Consolidated Tax Group shall be terminated as to Ambac Assurance and its subsidiaries, including Everspan (the “AAC Subgroup”), and shall be replaced by an agreement that recognizes the consolidated NOL of the group as an asset of the AAC Subgroup and that requires the Company to compensate Ambac Assurance on a current basis for use of any portion of that asset, except that the Company shall not be required to compensate Ambac Assurance for the Company’s use of net operating losses in connection with COD income associated with restructurings of its bonds outstanding as of March 15, 2010. The amended tax sharing agreement may materially reduce the cash available to the Company limiting the Company’s ability to service its obligations to third parties or pay dividends. Deductions with respect to interest accruing on the Surplus Notes may be eliminated or deferred until payment. To the extent the Surplus Notes are characterized as equity for U.S. federal income tax purposes, accrued interest will not be deductible by Ambac Assurance. In addition, even if the Surplus Notes are characterized as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the deduction of interest accruing on the Surplus Notes may be deferred until paid or eliminated in part depending upon (i) the terms of any deferral and payment provisions provided in the Surplus Notes, (ii) whether the Surplus Notes have “significant original issue discount” and (iii) the yield to maturity of the Surplus Notes. To the extent deductions with respect to interest is eliminated or deferred, the U.S. federal income tax of Ambac Assurance, the members of the Ambac Consolidated Tax Group or the members of the Ambac Assurance Consolidated Tax Group, as the case maybe, could be materially increased reducing the amount of cash available to pay third party obligations or dividends. The U.S. federal income tax consequences resulting from the creation of the Segregated Account are uncertain and Ambac Assurance may realize gain or loss in connection with the creation of the Segregated Account. The U.S. federal income tax consequences resulting from the creation of the Segregated Account are uncertain. For example, to the extent the Segregated Account were treated as a separate taxable entity, depending upon the terms of the Segregated Account Rehabilitation Plan, gain or loss could be realized by Ambac or the new taxable entity (i.e., the Segregated Account) materially increasing the U.S. federal income tax liability of the relevant party and materially reduce cash available to be pay third party obligations or dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 