Item 1A. Risk Factors References in the risk factors to “Ambac” are to Ambac Financial Group, Inc. References to “we,” “our” and “us” are to Ambac, Ambac Assurance Corporation and Everspan Financial Guarantee Corp., as the context requires. Difficult economic and other conditions may adversely affect our business results and prospects and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Since mid-2007, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. The decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. In addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline in asset values. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under bilateral derivatives and other contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government 34 Table of Contents actions. Banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. Beginning in 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. Such changes in general economic and other conditions have impacted, and may continue to impact, our business, as well as increases in corporate, municipal and/or consumer bankruptcies; increases in defaults and delinquencies on consumer debt (e.g., debt related to credit cards, student loans, auto loans and mortgage and home equity loans) and resulting stress on asset-backed securities and mortgage-backed securities; changes in interest rate levels; continued dislocation and lack of liquidity in the credit and financial markets; changes in domestic and international laws, including tax laws and bankruptcy laws; intervention by governments or courts in financial markets, including the imposition of limits on the ability of mortgagees to foreclose on defaulted mortgage loans and/or to increase interest rates on mortgage loans in accordance with original contract terms; wars and terrorist acts; natural disasters, including earthquakes, floods, windstorms and wildfires; and rising energy, fuel and utility costs could adversely affect the performance of our insured portfolio and our investment portfolio, e.g., leading to increases in losses and loss reserves in our insured portfolio and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. Furthermore, reduction in the volume of capital markets transactions; levels of competition; and changes in investor perception of credit risk could adversely impact the volume and pricing of financial guarantee insurance transactions and therefore adversely impact our business prospects. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other government and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on October 3, 2008, former President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. So far, this authority has been used primarily to make capital available to banks and bank holding companies and to provide other kinds of assistance to a limited number of financial institutions. The Federal Government, Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis, although generally speaking these actions have so far had little to do with existing securities on the balance sheets of financial institutions. There can be no assurance that any extensive action will be taken with respect to any existing assets or as to what impact such action or any of the other actions that have already been taken will have on the financial markets, whether with respect to market volatility, market valuations, the availability of credit or otherwise. Such volatility, low market valuations and relative unavailability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. Market risks could adversely impact our assets posted as collateral in respect of investment agreements and interest rate swap and currency swap transactions. As a result of the downgrade of Ambac Assurance’s financial strength rating, we are required to post collateral with respect to certain investment agreement, total return swap and interest rate swap and currency swap transactions. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Ratings and Collateral” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We will be required to post additional collateral if the market value of the assets used to collateralize our obligations under such agreements and transactions declines or, in certain cases, if there are changes in the collateral posting obligations under the interest rate swap and currency swap transactions. 35 Table of Contents These collateral-posting obligations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. At present, these collateral-posting requirements are being satisfied by means of the purchase of assets from the Financial Services businesses by Ambac Assurance and by loans from AFGI and Ambac Assurance to the Financial Services businesses. As required by Wisconsin law, these transactions were approved by the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance for the State of Wisconsin (“OCI”). To the extent that collateral-posting requirements increase as a result of adverse changes in market conditions, as described above, it is likely that Ambac Assurance would need to provide increased lending capacity to the Financial Services businesses in order to satisfy these collateral-posting obligations. Any such increases to lending capacity would be subject to the prior consent of the OCI; there can be no assurance that we would obtain such consent. We believe that the OCI would consider several factors in determining whether to grant such consent, including its view of Ambac Assurance’s financial condition at the time of such loan or contribution. If the Financial Services businesses fail to post collateral as required, counterparties may be entitled to terminate the transactions. Upon such terminations, we could liquidate securities with unrealized mark-to-market losses which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and may lead to further downgrades. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Ratings and Collateral” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The termination of such transactions would trigger Ambac Assurance’s obligations to make payments under the financial guarantee insurance policies it previously issued. To the extent that the OCI determines that the payment by Ambac Assurance under such policies could place Ambac Assurance in a hazardous condition, the OCI could seize Ambac Assurance and place it into rehabilitation. Risks which impact assets in our investment portfolio could adversely affect our business. Our investment portfolio has been adversely affected by events and developments in the capital markets, including decreased market liquidity for investment assets; market perception of increased credit risk with respect to the types of securities held in our investment portfolio and corresponding credit spread-widening with respect to our investment assets; and extension of the duration of investment assets. Our investment portfolio may be further adversely affected by these and other events and developments in capital markets, including interest rate movements; downgrades of credit ratings of investment securities and/or financial guarantee insurers which insure investment securities; and foreign exchange movements which impact investment assets. At December 31, 2008, approximately 36% of our investment portfolio is insured by financial guarantors, including Ambac. At December 31, 2008, approximately 8% of our investment portfolio comprises “Alt-A” mortgage-backed securities; Moody’s and S&P have recently undertaken a review of Alt-A mortgage-backed securities and have downgraded a large number of such securities. Please refer to the table in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Balance Sheet” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, representing the fair value and weighted-average underlying rating, excluding the financial guarantee, of the insured securities at December 31, 2008. 36 Table of Contents During the course of 2008, management identified and periodically revised certain investment securities in the Financial Services investment portfolio to potentially sell in order to satisfy additional collateral posting requirements upon a further ratings downgrade and/or to meet potential liquidity needs. We recorded an impairment charge through income on the portion of those securities which were in an unrealized loss position. Additionally, certain mortgage-backed securities held in our investment portfolio have had significant declines in value. Our analysis of the underlying mortgage loans indicates probable losses for a few of these investments. Accordingly, we have recorded an impairment charge through income for these investments. Please refer to Part II, Item 7—Results of Operations—Financial Services, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for further information. The impairments in value in the remaining investment portfolio are not deemed other-than- temporary, as such the remaining unrealized losses have been recognized in other comprehensive income. The following table summarizes amortized cost and estimated fair value of investments at December 31, 2008: AmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses EstimatedFair Value December 31, 2008: Fixed income securities: Municipal obligations $ 4,421,331 $ 41,963 $ 202,751 $ 4,260,543 Corporate obligations 443,804 7,448 69,688 381,564 Foreign obligations 143,328 8,669 1,628 150,369 U.S. government obligations 297,906 15,614 — 313,520 U.S. agency obligations 513,486 77,755 — 591,241 Mortgage-backed securities 3,911,310 21,845 1,946,981 1,986,174 Asset-backed securities 1,626,849 2,768 488,499 1,141,118 Short-term 1,454,229 — — 1,454,229 Other 13,956 232 129 14,059 Total investments $ 12,826,199 $ 176,294 $ 2,709,676 $ 10,292,817 To the extent we liquidate large blocks of investment assets in order to pay claims under financial guarantee insurance policies, to make payments under investment agreements and/or to collateralize our obligations under investment agreements and interest rate swaps, such investment assets would likely be sold at discounted prices which could be less than the December 31, 2008 fair values shown in the above table. The downgrade of our financial strength ratings by S&P and Moody’s has had a material adverse effect on our competitive position and our ability to write new business or to enter into hedging arrangements. As a result of the downgrades of Ambac Assurance’s financial strength ratings in 2008 and investor concern with respect to our financial position, we have been unable to originate new business since November 2007. We are not able to predict at this time when, if at all, Ambac Assurance will be able to write new business. In addition, as a result of the downgrades, it has become more difficult for Ambac and its affiliates to enter into hedge transactions with respect to its interest rate and currency swap exposures. In the event that Ambac is unable to execute such hedging transactions, Ambac could be exposed to incremental interest rate or currency rate risk that it would normally seek to mitigate. We may not be successful in relaunching Everspan. Successful reactivation of Everspan is dependent on a number of factors which are outside our control. First, Everspan’s business plan is dependent on receipt of financial strength ratings which are sufficiently high to enable Everspan to successfully market its financial guarantees. However, we may not be able to address the requirements of the rating agencies to receive such ratings, which include the infusion of third-party capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such third-party capital in a timely manner. Second, we plan to finance our investment in Everspan by means of a capital contribution by Ambac Assurance. This 37 Table of Contents contribution requires the approval of the OCI. Depending on OCI’s review and assessment of the financial condition of Ambac Assurance and other relevant factors at the time of the capital contribution, the OCI may be unwilling to approve such capital contribution. Third, Everspan’s success is dependent on the willingness of municipal issuers to use Everspan’s financial guarantees and the willingness of municipal bond investors to purchase such financial guarantees. If for any of these reasons, we are unable to reactivate Everspan and/or implement a successful business plan, we are likely to continue to be unable to originate new financial guaranty insurance business. Adverse publicity has affected demand for financial guarantee products. As a result of the uncertainty regarding the financial stability of financial guarantors (including ourselves), the proportion of newly issued public finance obligations which are insured dropped dramatically in 2008. Recently, certain municipal issuers have reduced their use of insurance for new issues, or indicated their intent to do so. This trend, if continued, could have an adverse affect on, new business public finance production for the financial guarantee industry, including Everspan. The financial guarantee business is highly competitive and we expect it to remain so in the near future. Upon launch, Everspan will face competition from other financial guarantors possibly including government-sponsored financial guarantors and alternatives to third-party credit enhancement. Such alternatives include bank financing, senior/subordinated securitization structures, letters of credit, guarantees and credit derivatives provided primarily by foreign and domestic banks. In addition, changes in the rating agencies’ capital models or rating methodology applied to issuers could further adversely affect our business results and prospects. For example, ratings agencies could begin to rate municipal bond issuers on the significantly less stringent rating scales currently applied to rate corporate bonds. In such case, many municipal issuers whose bonds might have been lower rated on the municipal scale might receive a triple-A rating on the corporate scale, possibly adversely affecting the demand for, and pricing of, financial guarantee insurance for such bonds. The determination of the amount of impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. The determination of the amount of impairments on our investments vary by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. For example, the cost of our fixed maturity securities is adjusted for impairments in value if deemed to be other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management’s case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. The review of our fixed maturity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. Additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the 38 Table of Contents prospects for near-term recovery. Inherent in management’s evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. Considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. We are subject to credit and liquidity risk due to unscheduled and unanticipated withdrawals on Investment Agreements. Ambac’s Investment Agreement business has issued investment agreements to investors that may allow for early withdrawal (i.e. deviate from a defined or expected withdrawal schedule). The provisions that allow for early withdrawal vary by transaction but include events such as credit events, early call provisions, loss events, construction project development variance and changes in tax code. To the extent we experience an increase in unanticipated withdrawals, the Investment Agreement business may be required to liquidate certain asset holdings. This early liquidation of asset holdings may result in a realized loss. Ultimate actual claim payments on our CDO of ABS and other credit derivative exposures could materially exceed on a present value basis our current disclosed estimates of impairment. As of December 31, 2008, Ambac reported a total of $8.2 billion of mark-to-market liabilities on credit derivative exposures, including an estimated credit impairment totaling $3.7 billion related to certain collateralized debt obligations of asset-backed securities (“CDO of ABS”) backed primarily by mezzanine level subprime residential mortgage-backed securities (“Subprime MBS”). An estimate for credit impairment has been established because it is management’s expectation that Ambac will have to make claim payments on these exposures in the future. Such credit impairment estimates are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the probability of default and the severity of loss upon default of the CDOs. The purpose of credit impairment estimates is to capture management’s expectation about future claims and do not reflect management’s expectations about stressed or “worst case” outcomes. Credit impairment estimates are only established when management has observed significant credit deterioration, in most cases, when the underlying credit is considered by us to be below investment grade. We do not estimate impairment for investment grade credits. Many factors will affect ultimate performance or impairment of our credit derivative exposures, including volatility in the capital markets, macroeconomic factors such as interest rates and employment levels, conditions in the residential housing and residential mortgage markets and downgrades by the rating agencies of mortgage-backed securities within our CDO of ABS exposures. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the actual payments we are ultimately required to make in respect of our CDO of ABS and other credit derivative exposures will not materially exceed our current disclosed estimates. Uncertainty with respect to the ultimate performance of certain of our credit derivative exposures may result in substantial changes to our impairment estimates. Correspondingly, such changes would affect our statutory financial position possibly materially and adversely. Various third-party market participants have made estimates of our losses, estimates of credit impairments and mark-to-market losses that in some cases materially exceed the amounts we have reported. Various third-party securities analysts, consultants and other market participants have made estimates of our loss and credit impairment amounts under various scenarios. In light of various factors, including, without 39 Table of Contents limitation, the volatility in the capital markets, the limited liquidity for certain classes of securities and the various assumptions about the future that are inherent in making such estimates, including estimates regarding the performance of RMBS and the housing market more generally, these third-party estimates vary widely. In the event that our ultimate losses and credit impairments approach some of these third-party estimates, such losses and credit impairments would have a materially adverse effect on our performance and financial position. Loss reserves may not be adequate to cover potential losses; changes in loss reserves may result in further volatility of net income and earnings. Loss reserves established with respect to our non-derivative financial guarantee insurance business are based upon estimates and judgments by management, including estimates and judgments with respect to the probability of default, the severity of loss upon default and estimated remediation recoveries for, among other things, breaches by the issuer of representations and warranties. Loss reserves are only established when management has observed significant credit deterioration, in most cases, when the underlying credit is considered below investment grade. We do not record loss reserves for investment grade credits. Furthermore, the objective of establishing loss reserve estimates is not to reflect the worst possible outcome. As such, there can be no assurance that the actual losses in our financial guarantee insurance portfolio will not exceed our loss reserves. A further description of our accounting for loss and loss expenses can be found in Note 2 of the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In sizing loss reserves with respect to our mortgage-related insurance exposures, we take account of expected recoveries from originators of the related mortgage-backed securities transactions. Expected recoveries derive from contractual provisions in the related transaction documents which require that the originator repurchase securitized mortgage loans which do not conform to representations and warranties given by the originator at the time that the mortgage-backed securities were issued. After a forensic exercise in which we examine loan files to ascertain whether the loans conformed to the representations and warranties, we submit nonconforming loans to the originator for repurchase. For purposes of sizing loss reserves, we take account only of loans as to which there is an established, material breach of representations and warranties. Nonetheless, originators may dispute that such loans are nonconforming; additionally, we may be unable to enforce the repurchase remedy due to deterioration of the originator’s financial position. Please see Management’s Discussion and Analysis-Loss Reserves included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of our subrogation and remediation efforts. Uncertainty with respect to the ultimate performance of certain of our insured exposures may result in substantial changes in loss reserves. Correspondingly, such changes to loss reserves would affect our reported earnings. If we do not have sufficient liquidity to meet the increase in loss reserves, our insurance operating subsidiaries may become insolvent and we may need to seek bankruptcy protection. We may be required to raise additional capital which could have a dilutive effect on our outstanding equity capital and/or future earnings. We may be required to raise additional capital as the result of rating agency capital requirements, or unanticipated losses in our insured portfolio. Any future equity offerings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. We may also engage in additional reinsurance or risk transfer transactions such as the one we completed with Assured Guaranty Re Limited in December 2007. Further, any capital raising in the form of reinsurance, or other risk transfer transactions of the existing portfolio, will have a dilutive effect on our future earnings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to consummate any capital raising transactions, or as to the terms of any of the currently proposed transactions. 40 Table of Contents Adequate capital support and liquidity may not be available. Financial guarantee insurers, including Ambac Assurance, have historically relied on reinsurers, contingent capital facilities and similar support mechanisms (often referred to as “soft capital”) to supplement their “hard capital.” During 2008, Ambac terminated its bank facility and exercised its put rights with respect to certain trusts created as a vehicle for providing capital support to Ambac Assurance under the contingent capital facility described under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources”. In connection therewith, Ambac Assurance received approximately $800 million in the aggregate from such trusts. As a result of the exercise of its put rights with respect to such contingent capital facility, such facility is no longer available to Ambac Assurance, and there can be no assurances that Ambac Assurance will be able to put another such facility in place. Given the loss of confidence in our financial position, the downgrades in our ratings and the unavailability of credit generally, we have limited access to some of our traditional sources of soft capital. The current stressed credit environment has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the financial strength of most of the reinsurers previously used by Ambac. As such, Ambac Assurance’s access to soft capital is now limited. We are subject to credit risk and other risks related to RMBS and CDOs of ABS. We have insured, and written credit default swaps (“CDS”), with respect to RMBS (including transactions comprised of second lien mortgage products, home equity line of credit (“HELOCs”), closed end second mortgage loans and Alt-A, or mid-prime, loans) and CDOs of ABS and are thus exposed to credit risk associated with those asset classes. Performance of these transactions can be adversely affected by general economic conditions, including recession, rising unemployment rates, declining house prices, increasing foreclosure rates and unavailability of consumer credit; mortgage product attributes, such as interest rate adjustments and balloon payment obligations; borrower and/or originator fraud; financial difficulty experienced by mortgage servicers; and, particularly in the case of CDOs of ABS, transaction-specific factors such as the lack of control of the underlying collateral security which can result in a senior creditor determining to liquidate underlying assets to the disadvantage of mezzanine and subordinated creditors and disputes between creditors with respect to the interpretation of legal documents governing the particular transaction. Transactions within Ambac Assurance’s insured RMBS and CDO portfolios also may be downgraded, placed on watch or subject to other actions by the rating agencies that have granted Ambac Assurance its financial strength ratings. Such ratings or other actions could require Ambac Assurance to maintain a material amount of additional capital to support the exposures it has insured. This could require us to: • Raise additional capital, if available, on terms and conditions that may be unfavorable; • Pay to reinsure or otherwise transfer certain of its risk exposure. RMBS and CDOs of ABS exposures which we have written in the form of CDS are subject to SFAS 133, which requires that these transactions be recorded at fair value. Changes in estimated fair values relative to our credit derivative book have caused decreases in the value of such credit derivative transactions; those changes in value are reported in our financial statements and have therefore affected our reported earnings. Similarly, further decreases or increases in estimated fair values in the future can affect our reported earnings. Changes in the estimated fair values of these CDS can be caused by general market conditions, perception of credit risk generally and events affecting particular credit derivative transactions (including those described above) and actual impairment of those transactions. While further deterioration in the performance of consumer assets, including mortgage-related assets, credit cards, student loans and auto loans and leases, is generally expected, the extent and duration of any future continued deterioration of the credit markets is unknown, as is the impact, if any, on potential claim payments and ultimate losses of the securities within Ambac Assurance’s portfolio. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to address such credit deterioration in the markets will be successful, and there is no way to know the effect that any such initiatives could have on the credit performance over time of the actual securities that Ambac Assurance insures. 41 Table of Contents In addition, there can be no assurance that we would be successful, or that we would not be delayed, in enforcing the subordination provisions, credit enhancements or other contractual provisions of the RMBS and CDOs of ABS that Ambac Assurance insures in the event of litigation or the bankruptcy of other transaction parties. Many of the subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions of the RMBS and CDOs of ABS that Ambac Assurance insures are untested in the market and, therefore, it is uncertain how such subordination provisions, credit enhancements and other contractual provisions will be interpreted in the event of an action for enforcement. Characterization of losses on CDS portfolio as capital losses for U.S. federal tax purposes could result in a substantial reduction of a deferred tax asset. Ambac’s CDS portfolio experienced significant mark-to-market losses as of December 31, 2008. A portion of these losses either generated net operating loss carryforwards or are only tax deductible upon realization, generating a significant deferred tax asset. As of December 31, 2008, Ambac’s gross deferred tax asset was $4.1 billion, of which $1.7 billion was associated with the CDS business. As a result of development of additional losses on its insurance and credit default swap portfolio, and the related impact on projected cash flows, Ambac established a valuation allowance of $2.1 billion. A valuation allowance is required to reduce a potential deferred tax asset when it is more likely than not that all or some of the potential deferred tax asset will not be realized. All available evidence, both positive and negative, needs to be identified and considered in making the determination. Future realization of the existing deferred tax asset ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (ordinary vs. capital) within the carry-back or carry-forward period available under the tax law. Although SFAS 109 does not specifically require scheduling the reversal of temporary differences, estimation of the periods of reversal is often necessary to determine if a valuation allowance is required. The majority of Ambac’s CDS contracts are on a “pay as you go” basis, which we believe are properly characterized as notional principal contracts. Generally, losses on notional principal contracts are ordinary losses. In scheduling the realization of these ordinary losses, we are required to consider the entire derivative liability balance as a loss in future years, regardless of whether or not management deems that amount probable. Accordingly, Ambac has estimated the periods in which these losses are anticipated to be realized and, along with estimated financial guarantee losses, has scheduled out the estimated periods in which these losses will become deductible. Ambac has examined all available evidence (both positive and negative) to establish that offsetting income is anticipated during this applicable period. The federal income tax treatment of credit default swaps is an unsettled area of the tax law. As such, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service may decide the “pay as you go” CDS contracts should be characterized as capital assets. Although, as discussed above, Ambac believes these contracts are properly characterized as notional principal contracts, if the IRS today were to successfully assert that these contracts should be characterized as capital assets, Ambac would need to take an additional valuation allowance the effect of which would be to substantially reduce the remaining deferred tax asset. The substantial reduction of the deferred tax asset would have a material adverse effect on Ambac’s financial condition. Further, any loss directly attributable to the termination of a credit default swap as a result of a payment to extinguish or assign all or a part of the remaining rights and obligations there-under may be treated as capital loss. Ambac is considering loss remediation techniques relating to certain CDS contracts and may enter into agreements with counterparties to modify these contracts. Depending on the terms and conditions of a modification, it may result in a termination of the CDS contract for US tax purposes and have an adverse impact on the deferred tax asset. 42 Table of Contents A downgrade of our long term credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and increase our borrowing costs. Our long-term senior unsecured debt was downgraded from an AA (S&P) and Aa2 (Moody’s) to BBB negative outlook by S&P and Ba1 on review for possible downgrade by Moody’s. Our access to external sources of financing, as well as the cost of that financing, has been adversely affected by a deterioration of our long-term debt ratings. Long-term debt ratings are influenced by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: financial leverage on an absolute basis or relative to our peers, the composition of the balance sheet and/or capital structure, material changes in earning trends and volatility, inability to dividend monies from Ambac Assurance and our competitive position. Material deterioration in any one or a combination of these factors could result in a further downgrade of our credit ratings, thus increasing the cost of and/or limiting the availability of unsecured financing. Moreover, if our need for capital arises because of significant losses, the occurrence of these losses may make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints, including adverse business performance, could affect our ability to pay holding company obligations. We are a holding company and have no substantial operations of our own or assets other than our ownership of Ambac Assurance, our principal operating subsidiary, and certain other smaller subsidiaries. As such, we are largely dependent on dividends from Ambac Assurance to, among other things, pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, pay our operating expenses and make capital investment in our subsidiaries. Wisconsin insurance regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by Ambac Assurance without the consent of the regulator. Because of the regulatory tests applicable to the payment of extraordinary dividends, Ambac Assurance cannot pay dividends to Ambac without regulatory consent in 2009. Further, if Ambac Assurance were to be placed in runoff, there is no assurance that it would be able to pay any dividends. Further, the inability of Ambac Assurance to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could affect our ability to repay our debt and/or raise capital or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, Everspan has agreed that it will not declare a dividend for the three-year period following the writing of its first financial guarantee policy. Thereafter, Everspan’s ability to declare dividends would be subject to the Wisconsin insurance regulations described above. In addition, the payment of dividends by Everspan to Ambac Assurance would not necessarily result in the payment of dividends by Ambac Assurance to Ambac Financial Group, Inc. As described above, the payment of dividends by Ambac Assurance is regulated by Wisconsin law and, at present, the payment of dividends by Ambac Assurance requires the approval of the OCI. See Part I, Item 1 “Business—Insurance Regulatory—Dividend Restrictions—Wisconsin” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for further information. We are subject to credit risk throughout our businesses, including large single risks, correlated risks and reinsurance counterparty credit risk. We are exposed to the risk that issuers of debt which we have insured (or with respect to which we have written credit derivatives), issuers of debt which we hold in our investment portfolio, reinsurers and other contract counterparties (including derivative counterparties) may default in their financial obligations, whether as the result of insolvency, lack of liquidity, operational failure, fraud or other reasons. These credit risks could cause increased losses and loss reserves, estimates of credit impairments and mark-to-market losses with respect to credit derivatives in our financial guarantee business; we could be required by the rating agencies to hold additional capital against insured exposures whether or not Ambac Assurance is downgraded by the rating agencies; and we could experience losses and decreases in the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. Such credit risks may be in the form of large single risk exposures to particular issuers, reinsurers or counterparties; losses caused by catastrophic events (including terrorist acts and natural disasters); or losses in respect of different, but correlated, credit exposures. 43 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2008, we have credit exposure to our reinsurance counterparties through reinsurance contracts of approximately $63.7 billion or 12.8% of our gross par outstanding. No single reinsurance counterparty represents more than 15% of the $63.7 billion in par ceded, except for Assured Guaranty Re Limited and Radian Asset Assurance Inc., to which we have reinsured $28.8 billion and $9.8 billion of par, respectively. In the event that we are required to make claim payments on policies that have been reinsured, we are at risk that such counterparties will fail to fulfill their payment obligations to us. In addition, downgrades to the credit ratings of our reinsurance counterparties may result in the reduction of rating agency capital credit provided by those reinsurance contracts, and could therefore result in a downgrade of our own credit ratings. For additional information on our reinsurers, see Item 7A, “Risk Management—Credit Risk” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Finally, a material deterioration in the capital levels of our reinsurance counterparties may reduce the amount of statutory capital relief provided by our reinsurance arrangements, and could result in our failure to meet our own statutory capital requirements. See the table included in “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K on the financial strength ratings of Ambac’s reinsurers as well as the amounts due from such reinsurers that are not secured by collateral. Our underwriting and risk management policies and practices in the past have not anticipated unforeseen risks and/or the magnitude of potential for loss as the result of foreseen risks. As described in Part I, Item 1, “Business—Risk Management” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we have established underwriting and risk management policies and practices which seek to mitigate our exposure to credit risk in our insured portfolio. These policies and practices in the past have not insulated us from risks that were unforeseen and which had unanticipated loss severity, and such policies and practices may not do so in the future. There can be no assurance that these policies and practices will be adequate to avoid future losses. We also rely on internally and externally developed complex financial models which additionally may have been reviewed by third parties to analyze and predict performance of the insured obligations. Flaws in these financial models and/or faulty assumptions used by these financial models could lead to increased losses and loss reserving. Revenues would be adversely impacted due to a decline in realization of installment premiums. Due to the installment nature of a significant percentage of its premium income, Ambac Assurance has an embedded future revenue stream. The amount of installment premiums actually realized by Ambac Assurance could be reduced in the future due to factors such as early termination of insurance contracts, accelerated prepayments of underlying obligations or insufficiency of cash flows (by the premium paying entity). Such a reduction would result in lower revenues. Changes in prevailing interest rate levels could adversely impact our business results and prospects. Increases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and, therefore, our financial strength. In the event that investments must be sold in order to pay claims or to meet Financial Services liquidity needs due to contract terminations or collateral posting requirements, such investments would likely be sold at discounted prices. Additionally, increasing interest rates could have adverse impact on our insured portfolio. For example, increasing interest rates could result in higher claim payments in respect of defaulted obligations which bear interest at floating rates of interest. Higher interest rates can also lead to increased credit stress on consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio (as the securitized assets supporting a portion of these exposures are floating rate consumer obligations); slower prepayment speeds and resulting “extension risk” relative to such consumer asset-backed transactions in our insured portfolio and in our investment portfolio; decreased volume of capital markets activity and, correspondingly, decreased volume of insured transactions. Decreases in prevailing interest rate levels can adversely affect the demand for, and pricing of, financial guarantee insurance, since lower absolute interest rates have historically tended to reduce credit spreads and, 44 Table of Contents therefore, the savings realized by issuers by using our core product. Additionally, decreasing interest rates could result in early terminations of financial guarantee insurance policies in respect of which we are paid on an installment basis and do not receive a termination premium, thus reducing premium earned in respect of these transactions. Decreases in prevailing interest rates may also limit growth of or reduce investment income. Our net income and earnings have become more volatile due to the application of fair value accounting, required under SFAS 133, to the portion of our credit enhancement business which is executed in credit derivative form. SFAS 133 requires that credit derivative transactions be recorded at fair value. Since quoted market prices for the contracts that we execute are not available, we estimate fair value by using modeling methodologies which are less precise than using quoted market prices. Changes in estimated fair values relative to our credit derivative book have caused decreases in the value of such credit derivative transactions; those changes in value are reported in our financial statements and have therefore affected our reported earnings. Similarly, further decreases or increases in estimated fair values in the future can affect our reported earnings. Changes in estimated fair values can be caused by general market conditions, uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of residential mortgage losses and the quality of high yield corporate loans, perception of credit risk generally and events affecting particular credit derivative transactions (e.g. impairment or improvement of specific reference entities or reference obligations) and perception of the credit risk posed by Ambac Assurance as insurer of the CDS. Changes to accounting rules relating to the financial guarantee industry could have a material adverse affect on us and our industry. On May 23, 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 163, “Accounting for Financial Guarantee Insurance Contracts, an interpretation of SFAS 60 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises.” The new standard clarifies how SFAS 60, “Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises,” applies to financial guarantee insurance contracts issued by insurance enterprises, including the recognition and measurement of premium revenue and claim liabilities (i.e. – loss reserves). It also requires expanded disclosures about financial guarantee insurance contracts. SFAS 163 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and all interim periods within those fiscal years, except for disclosures about the insurance enterprise’s risk management activities. Disclosures about the insurance enterprise’s risk-management activities are effective for the first period beginning after issuance of SFAS 163. Ambac will adopt SFAS 163 effective January 1, 2009 except for the disclosures about the insurance enterprise’s risk management activities, which was adopted in the quarter ended September 30, 2008. SFAS 163 requires the recognition of premium revenue, for both upfront and installment paying policies, by applying a fixed percentage of premium to the amount of exposure outstanding at each reporting date (referred to as the level-yield approach), rather than being recognized over the term of each maturity for upfront paying policies. For installment paying policies, SFAS 163 also requires that the accretion discount, equating to the difference between the undiscounted installment premiums and the present value of installment premiums, be recognized through the income statement. SFAS 163 requires the recognition and measurement of a claim liability based on the present value of expected net cash outflows to be paid, using a risk-free rate, in excess of the unearned premium revenue. Expected net cash outflows under SFAS 163 are probability-weighted cash flow scenarios that reflect the likelihood of all possible outcomes for net claim payments under an insurance contract. This differs from Ambac’s current claim liability approach which we recognize the full amount of estimated net cash outflows based, in many cases, on a single scenario discounted at a rate which approximates our investment portfolio yield. SFAS 163 will be applied to existing financial guarantee insurance contracts in effect on January 1, 2009 and the cumulative effect of initially applying this Statement will be recorded as an adjustment to the opening 45 Table of Contents balance of retained earnings. Ambac believes that the cumulative effect of initially applying the provisions of SFAS 163 could be material to our financial statements; however, the impact upon adoption is still not known. The provisions of SFAS 163 are complex and its implementation has presented significant challenges as a result of the short implementation timeframe, resolution of difficult interpretational issues and significant changes to our internal accounting and reporting systems. Ambac continues to evaluate the impact of the standard with regard to revenue recognition, claim liabilities and deferred acquisition costs on its financial statements. We are subject to extensive regulation in the conduct of our financial guarantee insurance business; amendments to these insurance laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business results. Our principal subsidiary, Ambac Assurance, is subject to the insurance laws and regulations of each jurisdiction in which it is licensed. Ambac UK, the subsidiary through which we write financial guarantee insurance in the United Kingdom and in the European Union, is regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Failure to comply with applicable insurance laws and regulations could expose us to fines, the loss of insurance licenses in certain jurisdictions and/or the inability of Ambac Assurance to dividend monies to us, all of which could have an adverse impact on our business results and prospects. Additionally, if the cost of complying with these insurance laws and regulations increases materially, this could impact our business results. Recently, there have been legislative and regulatory initiatives with respect to the regulation of financial guarantee insurance companies. The initiatives would generally impose restrictions on the types and amounts of business that Ambac Assurance is authorized to insure, especially in the structured finance area. Such restrictions could have a material effect on the amount of premiums that Ambac earns in the future. Additionally, any changes to such laws and regulations could subject Ambac Assurance to increased reserving and capital requirements or more stringent regulation generally, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and future business. See Part I, Item 1 “Business—Insurance Regulatory Matters” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, for further information. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees or the loss of any of these personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We rely substantially upon the services of our current executive team. In addition to these officers, we require key staff with insurance, investment, accounting and administrative skills. The loss of the services of members of our senior management team, or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy, which could negatively impact our business. We are subject to the compliance requirements of the federal securities laws. We are subject to extensive regulation under the federal securities laws, both as a registrant under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and in the conduct of our financial guarantee insurance business. In the event that we were unable to comply with the federal securities laws, we would likely be unable to access the public capital markets, which would make it more difficult for us to raise the necessary capital and/or increase the cost of capital. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Additionally, if we are unable to comply with the securities laws, Ambac Assurance would likely be unable to insure transactions in the public capital markets, which would have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. 46 Table of Contents We are subject to a variety of operational risks which could have a material adverse impact on our business results. We depend on internal processes, risk models, various systems and our employees in the conduct of our business. Any failure of such processes, models and systems and/or employee misconduct or fraud could have an adverse impact on our business results. We are also subject to external operational risks, including fraud, settlement risk and the failure of risk models or other analytical tools provided by third parties. Any such external fraud or failure could have an adverse impact on our business results. Changes in tax laws impacting marginal tax rates and/or the preferred tax treatment of municipal obligations could adversely impact our business. Tax legislation which imposes a “flat tax” or otherwise changes the tax preference of municipal obligations under current law could adversely affect the market value of municipal obligations. In large part, our investment portfolio is invested in tax-exempt municipal obligations; as such, the value of our investment portfolio could be adversely affected by any such legislation. Additionally, any such changes in tax law could reduce the difference between tax-exempt interest rates and taxable rates. This reduction could adversely impact the financial performance of our interest rate swap business, since, in certain interest swap transactions, we have assumed the “basis risk” between tax-exempt and taxable interest rates in that business. See Part I, Item 1, “Business—Derivative Products” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for further information. We likely experienced an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In connection with the March 2008 Common Stock Offering, the Equity Units Offering and/or other transactions in our shares from time to time, we likely experienced an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general terms, an ownership change would result from transactions increasing the aggregate ownership of certain stockholders in our stock by more than 50 percentage points over a testing period (generally three years). If an ownership change occurred, our ability to use certain tax attributes, including certain built-in losses, credits, deductions or tax basis and/or our ability to continue to reflect the associated tax benefits as assets on our balance sheet, may be limited. We have concluded that these limitations are unlikely to have any material tax or accounting consequences. However, this conclusion is based on a variety of assumptions, including our estimates regarding the amounts and timing of certain deductions and future earnings, any of which could be incorrect. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that these limitations would not have an adverse effect on our results of operations or that such adverse effects would not be material. We are subject to the risk of litigation and regulatory inquiries or investigations, and the outcome of proceedings we are or may become involved in could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. Ambac, and certain of its present and former officers and directors, have been named in lawsuits that allege violations of the federal securities laws and/or state law. Ambac also has been named in several lawsuits relating to transactions entered into by its financial guarantee subsidiary, Ambac Assurance, and its financial services businesses. In addition, Ambac has received various regulatory inquiries and requests for information. Please see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” for information on these various proceedings. It is not possible to predict whether additional suits will be filed or whether additional inquiries or requests for information will be made, and it is also not possible to predict the outcome of litigation, inquiries or requests for information. It is possible that there could be unfavorable outcomes in these or other proceedings. Management is unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes or of the expenses that will be incurred in defending these lawsuits. Under some circumstances, adverse results in any such proceedings and/or the incurrence of significant litigation expenses could be material to our company’s business, operations, financial position, profitability or cash flows. 47 Table of Contents Investors may become “controllers” of Ambac Financial Group, Inc. for the purposes of UK law and may require prior approval of UK’s Financial Services Authority. As a result of Ambac Financial Group, Inc. being the holding company of Ambac UK and Ambac Credit Products Limited, the prior consent of the UK’s Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) will be required for any individual, group or institution who proposes to take a step that would result in becoming Controller of or increasing control over Ambac UK and Ambac Credit Products Limited. Broadly, in respect of the FSA’s consent, where an individual person or body corporate, inter alia: (a) holds 10 percent or more of the shares in a parent undertaking (“P”) of a company undertaking a regulated activity (“A”); or (b) is able to exercise significant influence over the management of P through his shareholding in P; or (c) is able to exercise significant influence over the management of P through his voting power in P; or (d) is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10 percent or more of the voting power in P, then such person will be a Controller of A, in this case A being Ambac UK and Ambac Credit Products Limited. Any proposed changes in either existing Controllers or the appointment of new Controllers must first be approved by the FSA. Any such acquisition which occurs without first obtaining this consent could lead to criminal sanctions. Section 189 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 confers powers on the FSA to impose one or more of the following restrictions on a proposed Controller if such approval is not given: (a) the transfer of existing shares or the right to be issued new or further shares is void; (b) no further voting rights are exercisable in respect of the shares acquired without approval; no further shares are to be issued in respect of the shares accepted without approval; and (c) except in a liquidation, no payment is to be made of any sum due from the body corporate on the shares acquired, whether in respect of capital or otherwise. The court also has the power to make such order relating to the sale or transfer of the shares as it thinks fit on the application of the FSA. A person who is already an approved controller by virtue of holding 10 percent or more of the shares in the Company or being entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10 percent or more of the voting power in the Company will nevertheless require the prior approval of the FSA if it wishes to increase its level of control beyond certain specified percentages. These are 20 percent, 33 percent and 50 percent. There are limitations on the voting rights attached to our shares of common stock. Our subsidiary, Ambac Assurance, is a Wisconsin corporation and is subject to the insurance and regulatory laws of the State of Wisconsin. Under Wisconsin insurance holding company laws, there is a presumption that a holder of 10% or more of our voting stock controls Ambac Assurance and any such acquisition of control requires the prior approval of the OCI of the State of Wisconsin. Section 4.5 of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no stockholder may cast votes with respect to 10% or more of our voting stock, regardless of the actual number of shares of voting stock beneficially held by the stockholder. In addition, any voting stock held by a stockholder in excess of 10% will not count in the calculation of or toward a quorum at any meeting of stockholders. In order to avoid these restrictions, a stockholder who acquires or owns 10% or more of our voting stock must have such acquisition or ownership previously approved by the OCI of the State of Wisconsin or file a disclaimer of “control” approved by such office. The foregoing provisions of the Wisconsin insurance holding company laws and legal restrictions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or the removal of incumbent management. 48 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 