Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe risk factors set forth below should be carefully considered. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness and Certain Other Obligations Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk in connection with our variable-rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the senior notes.We are highly leveraged. The following chart shows our level of indebtedness as of December 31, 2011(in thousands): December 31, 2011Senior secured term loan facility$1,014,400Senior secured pre-funded revolving credit facility33,000Senior notes248,075Guaranteed debt, sale-leaseback and capital lease obligations and other notes payable38,489Total indebtedness$1,333,964As of December 31, 2011, we also had approximately $82.4 million in available unused borrowing capacity under our working capital revolving credit facility (after giving effect to undrawn letters of credit of approximately $67.6 million) and $67.0 million in available unused borrowing capacity under our pre-funded revolving credit facility that provides financing for capital expenditures only.Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including:•making it more difficult for us to make payments on indebtedness;•increasing our vulnerability to general economic, industry, and competitive conditions;•increasing our cost of borrowing;•requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities;•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, restaurant development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and•limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may not be as highly leveraged.We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase.As of December 31, 2011, we had $1.0 billion of debt outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities, which bears interest based on a floating rate index. An increase in these floating rates could cause a material increase in our interest expense.21Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCOur debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business.Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock, make certain acquisitions or investments, incur or permit to exist certain liens, enter into transactions with affiliates or sell our assets to, merge or consolidate with or into, another company. In addition, our senior secured credit facilities require us to satisfy certain financial tests and ratios and limit our ability to make capital expenditures. Our ability to satisfy such tests and ratios may be affected by events outside of our control.Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit facilities. If the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit facilities and our unsecured indebtedness, including the senior notes.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the senior notes, and operating lease obligations, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and operating lease obligations, which may not be successful. If we fail to meet these obligations, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities and operating leases and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to satisfy our operating lease obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot be certain that we will maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the senior notes, or to pay our operating lease obligations. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations and operating lease obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the senior notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of sufficient operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, or take other actions, to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could otherwise realize from such dispositions and any such proceeds that are realized may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. The failure to meet our debt service obligations or the failure to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our senior secured credit facilities would constitute an event of default under those facilities and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. 22Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCIf our revenue and resulting cash flow were to decline to levels that cannot be offset by reductions in costs, efficiency programs and improvements in working capital management, we may not remain in compliance with certain covenants in our senior secured credit facilities agreement or be able to fund debt service requirements, operating lease obligations, capital expenditures and working capital obligations. If we fail to meet these obligations, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities and operating leases and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit.If our revenue and resulting cash flow were to decline to levels that cannot be offset by reductions in costs, efficiency programs and improvements in working capital management, we may not remain in compliance with the leverage ratio and free cash flow covenants in our senior secured credit facilities agreement and furthermore, we may not be able to fund debt service requirements, operating lease obligations, capital expenditures and working capital obligations. If this occurs, we intend to take such actions available to us as we determine to be appropriate at such time, which may include, but are not limited to, engaging in a permitted equity issuance, seeking a waiver from our lenders, amending the terms of such facilities, including the covenants described above, refinancing all or a portion of our senior secured credit facilities under modified terms, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effect any such actions on terms acceptable to us or at all or that such actions will be successful in maintaining our debt service or covenant compliance or meeting other obligations. The failure to meet our debt service obligations or the failure to remain in compliance with the financial covenants under our senior secured credit facilities would constitute an event of default under those facilities and the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. Approximately 20% of our domestic Company-owned restaurants are subject to a master lease with our sister company, New Private Restaurant Properties, LLC (“New PRP”). An event of default under this lease could result in our loss of use of some or all of these restaurant properties. In connection with the Merger, the fee owned real estate and certain related assets associated with approximately 25% of our domestic Company-owned restaurants were sold to PRP and then leased to us and our subsidiaries through a master lease and a series of underlying subleases. Effective March 14, 2012, KHI entered into a sale-leaseback transaction with two third party real estate institutional investors in which PRP sold 67 of its restaurant properties at fair market value for $194.9 million. We then simultaneously leased these properties back under nine master leases (collectively, the “REIT Master Leases”). Additionally, the original master lease agreement for the remaining 261 properties that we leased from PRP was amended and restated as a revised 15-year master lease (the “Amended Master Lease”) with New PRP. The Amended Master Lease contains customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. The Amended Master Lease requires an aggregate monthly rental payment with respect to all 261 leased restaurants, without any grace period for late payment. If a default occurs under the Amended Master Lease, New PRP is entitled to take various actions to enforce its rights, including, in certain circumstances, termination of the Amended Master Lease. In addition, if New PRP were to default under its real estate credit facility, the lenders would be entitled to take various actions to enforce their rights, including, in certain circumstances, foreclosing on the restaurant properties. New PRP's primary source of revenue (and consequently its primary source of funds available to service its own debt under its real estate credit facility) is the monthly rental payments we make under the Amended Master Lease. If we fail to make payments or otherwise default under the Amended Master Lease, New PRP could default under its real estate credit facility. If the Amended Master Lease were to be terminated in connection with any default by us or if the lenders under New PRP's real estate credit facility were to foreclose on the restaurant properties as a result of a New PRP default under its real estate credit facility, we could, subject to the terms of a subordination and nondisturbance agreement, lose the use of some or all of the properties that we lease under the Amended Master Lease. Any such loss of the use of such restaurant properties would have a material adverse effect on our business.23Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCAny right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets.Our obligations under the senior notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our obligations under our senior secured credit facilities and each guarantor’s obligations under their respective guarantees of the senior secured credit facilities are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including the stock and the assets of certain of our current and future wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Our obligations under the senior notes are also structurally subordinated to our sale-leaseback. As of December 31, 2011, we had $1.3 billion in outstanding debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, of which approximately $1.0 billion was secured. We also had $82.4 million in available unused borrowing capacity under our working capital revolving credit facility (after giving effect to undrawn letters of credit of approximately $67.6 million) and $67.0 million in available unused borrowing capacity under our pre-funded revolving credit facility that provides financing for capital expenditures only.If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture governing the senior notes at such time. Because of the structural subordination of the senior notes relative to our secured indebtedness, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or dissolution, our assets will not be available to pay obligations under the senior notes until we have made all payments in cash on our secured indebtedness. We cannot be certain that sufficient assets will remain after all these payments have been made to make any payments on the senior notes, including payments of principal or interest when due. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the senior notes will not be secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which any claims could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy any claims fully.The indenture governing the senior notes permits us and our restricted subsidiaries to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional senior secured indebtedness.Any claims to our assets by holders of senior notes will be structurally subordinated to all of the creditors of any non-guarantor subsidiaries.Not all of our subsidiaries guarantee the senior notes. The senior notes are structurally subordinated to indebtedness (and other liabilities) of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of any of these non-guarantor subsidiaries, the non-guarantor subsidiaries will pay the holders of their debt and their trade creditors before they will be able to distribute any of their assets to us for payment to our creditors, including holders of the senior notes.The indenture requires that each of our domestic wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries that guarantees the obligations under the senior secured credit facilities or any of our other indebtedness also be a guarantor of the senior notes. Our other subsidiaries are not required to guarantee the senior notes under the indenture. The senior secured credit facilities require guarantees of the obligations thereunder from each of our current and future domestic wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries in our Outback Steakhouse and Carrabba’s Italian Grill concepts, which consequently are guarantors of the senior notes under the indenture. Additionally, the senior secured credit facilities will require us to provide additional guarantees of the senior secured credit facilities in the future from other domestic wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries if the Consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments as defined in the senior secured credit facilities) attributable to our non-guarantor domestic wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (taken together as a group) would exceed 10% of our Consolidated EBITDA as determined on a Company-wide basis; at which time guarantees would be required from additional domestic wholly-owned restricted 24Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCsubsidiaries in such number that would be sufficient to lower the aggregate Consolidated EBITDA of the non-guarantor domestic wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries (taken together as a group) to an amount not in excess of 10% of our Company-wide Consolidated EBITDA. Consequently, such additional domestic wholly-owned restricted subsidiaries will be required to be guarantors of the senior notes under the indenture. The terms of the senior secured credit facilities, including the provisions relating to which of our subsidiaries guarantee the obligations under the senior secured credit facilities, may be amended, modified or waived, and guarantees thereunder may be released, in each case at the lenders’ discretion and without the consent or approval of noteholders. Noteholders will not have a claim as a creditor against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of the senior notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will effectively be senior, in respect of the assets of such subsidiaries, to claims of noteholders.See the Supplemental Guarantor Condensed Consolidating Financial Statements in Item 8, Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for presentation of the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of OSI Restaurant Partners, LLC - Parent only, OSI Co-Issuer, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary and exists solely for the purpose of serving as co-issuer of the senior notes, the guarantor subsidiaries, the non-guarantor subsidiaries and the elimination entries necessary to consolidate the Company.If we default on our obligations to pay our indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the senior notes.Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under the senior secured credit facilities, that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on the senior notes and could substantially decrease the market value of the senior notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including covenants in our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior notes), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness, including our senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the senior notes. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.We may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control.Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we are required to offer to repurchase all outstanding senior notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The source of funds for any such purchase of the senior notes will be our available cash or cash generated from our subsidiaries’ operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the senior notes that are tendered upon a change of control. Further, we are contractually restricted under the terms of our senior secured credit facilities from repurchasing all of the senior notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to purchase the senior notes unless we are able to refinance or obtain waivers under our senior secured credit facilities. Our failure to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indenture governing the senior notes and a cross-default under the senior secured credit facilities. The senior secured credit facilities also provide that a change of control will be a default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings thereunder. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions.25Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCFederal and state fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void the senior notes or the guarantees, and, if that occurs, we may not be able to make any payments on the senior notes.Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of the senior notes and the incurrence of the guarantees. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the senior notes or guarantees could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if (1) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, issued the senior notes or incurred the guarantees with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (2) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the senior notes or incurring the guarantees and, in the case of (2) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof:•we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the senior notes or the incurrence of the guarantees;•the issuance of the senior notes or the incurrence of the guarantees left us or any of the guarantors, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on the business;•we or any of the guarantors intended to, or believed that we or such guarantor would, incur debts beyond our or such guarantor’s ability to pay as they mature; or•we or any of the guarantors were a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against us or such guarantor if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied.If a court were to find that the issuance of the senior notes or the incurrence of the guarantee was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the senior notes or such guarantee or subordinate the senior notes or such guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of ours or of the related guarantor, or require the holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts received. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, we may not be able to make any payment on the senior notes. Further, the voidance of the senior notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ other debt that could result in acceleration of such debt. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. A debtor will generally not be considered to have received value in connection with a debt offering if the debtor uses the proceeds of that offering to make a dividend payment or otherwise retire or redeem equity securities issued by the debtor.We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the senior notes or the guarantees would not be subordinated to our or any of our guarantors’ other debt.Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Competition for customers, real estate, and employees and changes in certain conditions driving customer traffic may affect our profit margins, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with a substantial number of restaurant operators that compete directly and indirectly with us in respect to price, service, location and food quality, and there are other well-established competitors with significant financial and other resources. There is also active competition for management personnel as well as attractive suitable real estate sites. Consumer tastes, nutritional and dietary trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants often affect the restaurant business, and our competitors may react more efficiently and effectively to those conditions. Further, we face growing competition from the supermarket industry, with the improvement of their “convenient meals” in the deli section, and from quick service and fast casual restaurants, as a result of higher-quality food and beverage offerings by those restaurants. If we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected.26Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCChallenging economic conditions may have a negative effect on our business by adversely impacting our cash flow-through lower consumer confidence and discretionary spending, availability and cost of credit, foreign currency exchange rates and other items.Challenging economic conditions may negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus cause a decline in our cash flow from operations. For example, during the economic downturn starting in 2008, continuing disruptions in the overall economy, including the ongoing impacts of the housing crisis, high unemployment, and financial market volatility and unpredictability, caused a related reduction in consumer confidence, which negatively affected customer traffic and sales throughout our industry. These factors, as well as national, regional and local regulatory and economic conditions, gasoline prices, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence, affect discretionary consumer spending. If challenging economic conditions persist for an extended period of time or worsen, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently. The ability of the U.S. economy to continue to recover from these challenging economic conditions is likely to be affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control, including current economic trends in Europe. Continued weakness in or a further worsening of the economy, generally or in a number of our markets, and our customers' reactions to these trends could adversely affect our business and cause us to, among other things, reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, close restaurants or delay remodeling of our existing restaurant locations.In addition, as noted in our other risk factors, our high degree of leverage could increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions and require that a substantial portion of cash flow from operations be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. Further, the availability of credit already arranged for under our revolving credit facilities and the cost and availability of future credit may be adversely impacted by economic challenges. Foreign currency exchange rates for the countries in which we operate may decline, and we may experience interruptions in supplies and other services from our third-party vendors as a result of market conditions. These disruptions in the economy are beyond our control, and there is no guarantee that any government response will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the economy or increase the availability of credit.Loss of key management personnel could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully.Our success will continue to depend, to a significant extent, on our leadership team and other key management personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficiently experienced and capable management personnel, our business and financial results may suffer. If members of our leadership team or other key management personnel leave, we may have difficulty replacing them, and our business may suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully attract and retain our leadership team and other key management personnel that we need.We could face labor shortages that could slow our growth and adversely impact our ability to operate our restaurants.Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including managing partners, restaurant managers, kitchen staff and servers, necessary to keep pace with our anticipated expansion schedule and meet the needs of our existing restaurants. A sufficient number of qualified individuals of the requisite caliber to fill these positions may be in short supply in some communities. Competition in these communities for qualified staff could require us to pay higher wages and provide greater benefits. Any inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may also delay the planned openings of new restaurants and could adversely impact our existing restaurants. Any such inability to retain or recruit qualified employees, increased costs of attracting qualified employees or delays in restaurant openings could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Risks associated with our expansion plans may have adverse effects on our ability to increase revenues.As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to expand our current portfolio of restaurants. Current development schedules call for the construction of approximately 30 or more new restaurants in 2012. A variety of factors could cause the actual results and outcome of those expansion plans to differ from the anticipated results. Our development schedule for new restaurant openings is subject to a number of risks that could cause actual results to 27Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCdiffer, including among other things:•the availability of attractive sites for new restaurants and the ability to obtain appropriate real estate at those sites at acceptable prices;•the ability to obtain all required governmental permits, including zoning approvals and liquor licenses, on a timely basis;•the impact of moratoriums or approval processes of state, local or foreign governments, which could result in significant delays;•the ability to obtain all necessary contractors and sub-contractors;•union activities such as picketing and hand billing, which could delay construction;•the ability to negotiate suitable lease terms;•the ability to recruit and train skilled management and restaurant employees;•the ability to receive the premises from the landlord’s developer without any delays; and•weather, natural disasters and disasters beyond our control resulting in construction delays.Some of our new restaurants may take several months to reach planned operating levels due to lack of market awareness, start-up costs and other factors typically associated with new restaurants. There is also the possibility that new restaurants may attract customers of existing restaurants we own, thereby reducing the revenues of those existing restaurants.Development rates for each concept may differ significantly. The development of each concept may not be as successful as our experience in the past. It is difficult to estimate the performance of newly opened restaurants. Earnings achieved to date by restaurants open for less than two years may not be indicative of future operating results. Should enough of these new restaurants not meet targeted performance, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and past results are not indicative of future results. Historically, customer spending patterns for our established restaurants are generally highest in the first quarter of the year and lowest in the third quarter of the year. Additionally, holidays may affect sales volumes seasonally in some of the markets where we operate. Our quarterly results have been and will continue to be affected by the timing of new restaurant openings and their associated pre-opening costs as well as restaurant closures and exit-related costs and impairments of goodwill, intangible assets and property, fixtures and equipment. As a result of these and other factors, our financial results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year. Significant adverse weather conditions and other disasters could negatively impact our results of operations. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as regional winter storms, floods, major hurricanes and earthquakes, severe thunderstorms and other disasters, such as oil spills, could negatively impact our results of operations. Temporary and prolonged restaurant closures may occur and customer traffic may decline due to the actual or perceived effects from these events.We may be required to use cash to pay one of our franchisees in connection with a put-right under a settlement agreement, which could have an adverse impact on our development plans and operating results.In connection with the settlement of litigation with T-Bird Nevada, LLC and its affiliates (“T-Bird”), which include the franchisees of 56 Outback Steakhouse restaurants in California, we entered into an agreement with T-Bird pursuant to which T-Bird has the right to require us to acquire for cash all of the equity interests in the T-Bird entities that own Outback Steakhouse restaurants and certain rights under a development agreement that we also entered into with T-Bird in connection with the settlement. This right, referred to as the Put Right, will become exercisable by T-Bird for a one-year period beginning on the date of closing of an IPO by us or certain of our affiliates. The Put Right is also exercisable if we sell our Outback Steakhouse brand. If the Put Right is exercised, we will pay a purchase price equal to a multiple of the T-Bird entities' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, subject to certain adjustments (“Adjusted EBITDA”), for the trailing 12 months, net of liabilities, of the T-Bird entities as of the closing 28Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCof the purchase from T-Bird. The multiple will be equal to 75% of the multiple of our Adjusted EBITDA for the same trailing 12-month period as reflected in our stock price in the case of an IPO or, in a sale of our Outback Steakhouse concept, 75% of the multiple of the Adjusted EBITDA that we are receiving in the sale. We have a one-time right to reject the exercise of the Put Right if the transaction would be dilutive to our consolidated earnings per share. In that event, the Put Right is extended until the first anniversary of our notice to the T-Bird entities of that rejection. We have agreed to waive all rights of first refusal in our franchise arrangements with the T-Bird entities in connection with a sale of all, and not less than all, of the assets, or at least 75% of the ownership of the T-Bird entities. If the Put Right is exercised, we will have to use cash to pay the purchase price that could have been allocated to more profitable development initiatives or other business needs and we will then own restaurants that may not fit our current expansion criteria. This could have an adverse impact on our operating results. We have limited control with respect to the operations of our franchisees and joint venture partners, which could have a negative impact on our business.Our franchisees and joint venture partners are obligated in many ways to operate their restaurants according to the specific guidelines we set forth. We provide training opportunities to these franchisees and joint venture partners to fully integrate them into our operating strategy. However, since we do not have control over these restaurants, we cannot give assurance that there will not be differences in product quality or that there will be adherence to all of our guidelines at these restaurants. The failure of these restaurants to operate effectively could adversely affect our cash flows from those operations or have a negative impact on the reputation of our business.Our ability to comply with government regulation, and the costs of compliance, could adversely affect our business. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws affecting our business. Each of our restaurants is subject to licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which may include, among others, alcoholic beverage control, health and safety, nutritional menu labeling, health care, environmental and fire agencies in the state, municipality or country in which the restaurant is located. Difficulty in obtaining or failing to obtain the required licenses or approvals could delay or prevent the development of a new restaurant in a particular area. Additionally, difficulties or inabilities to retain or renew licenses, or increased compliance costs due to changed regulations, could adversely affect operations at existing restaurants.Approximately 15% of our consolidated restaurant sales are attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply to a state authority and, in certain locations, county or municipal authorities for a license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, training, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain liquor or food service licenses would adversely affect the restaurant's operations. Additionally, we are subject in certain states to “dramshop” statutes, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person.Our restaurant operations are also subject to federal and state labor laws, including the Fair Labor Standards Act, governing such matters as minimum wages, overtime, tip credits and worker conditions. Our employees who receive tips as part of their compensation, such as servers, are paid at a minimum wage rate, after giving effect to applicable tip credits. We rely on our employees to accurately disclose the full amount of their tip income, and we base our FICA tax reporting on the disclosures provided to us by such tipped employees. Our other personnel, such as our kitchen staff, are typically paid in excess of minimum wage. As significant numbers of our food service and preparation personnel are paid at rates related to the applicable minimum wage, further increases in the minimum wage or other changes in these laws could increase our labor costs. Our ability to respond to minimum wage increases by increasing menu prices will depend on the responses of our competitors and customers. Further, we are continuing to assess the impact of federal health care legislation on our health care benefit costs. The imposition of any requirement that we 29Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCprovide health insurance benefits to employees that are more extensive than the health insurance benefits we currently provide, or the imposition of additional employer paid employment taxes on income earned by our employees, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our distributors and suppliers also may be affected by higher minimum wage and benefit standards, which could result in higher costs for goods and services supplied to us.The Patient Protection and Affordability Act of 2010 (the “PPACA”) enacted in March 2010 requires chain restaurants with 20 or more locations in the United States to comply with federal nutritional disclosure requirements. The FDA has indicated that it intends to issue final regulations by the middle of 2012 and begin enforcing the regulations by the end of 2012. A number of states, counties and cities have also enacted menu labeling laws requiring multi-unit restaurant operators to disclose certain nutritional information to customers, or have enacted legislation restricting the use of certain types of ingredients in restaurants. Although the federal legislation is intended to preempt conflicting state or local laws on nutrition labeling, until we are required to comply with the federal law we will be subject to a patchwork of state and local laws and regulations regarding nutritional content disclosure requirements. Many of these requirements are inconsistent or are interpreted differently from one jurisdiction to another. While our ability to adapt to consumer preferences is a strength of our concepts, the effect of such labeling requirements on consumer choices, if any, is unclear at this time. There is also a potential for increased regulation of food in the United States under the recent changes in the HACCP system requirements. HACCP refers to a management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control of potential hazards from production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product. Many states have required restaurants to develop and implement HACCP Systems and the United States government continues to expand the sectors of the food industry that must adopt and implement HACCP programs. For example, the Food Safety Modernization Act (the “FSMA”), signed into law in January 2011, granted the FDA new authority regarding the safety of the entire food system, including through increased inspections and mandatory food recalls. Although restaurants are specifically exempted from or not directly implicated by some of these new requirements, we anticipate that the new requirements may impact our industry. Additionally, our suppliers may initiate or otherwise be subject to food recalls that may impact the availability of certain products, result in adverse publicity or require us to take actions that could be costly for us or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA, which, among other things, requires our restaurants to meet federally mandated requirements for the disabled. The ADA prohibits discrimination in employment and public accommodations on the basis of disability. Under the ADA, we could be required to expend funds to modify our restaurants to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for the employment of, disabled persons. In addition, our employment practices are subject to the requirements of the Immigration and Naturalization Service relating to citizenship and residency. Government regulations could affect and change the items we procure for resale such as commodities. We may also become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat and high-sodium foods, particularly in the United States, which could be costly to comply with. Our results can be impacted by tax legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate and by accounting standards or pronouncements.We are also subject to laws and regulations relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, gift cards and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We face a variety of risks associated with doing business in foreign markets that could have a negative impact on our financial performance. We have a significant number of franchised, joint venture and Company-owned Outback Steakhouse restaurants outside the United States, and we intend to continue our efforts to grow internationally. Although we believe we have developed the support structure for international operations and growth, there is no assurance that international operations will be profitable or international growth will continue.30Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCOur foreign operations are subject to all of the same risks as our domestic restaurants, as well as a number of additional risks. These additional risks include, among others, international economic and political conditions and the possibility of instability and unrest, differing cultures and consumer preferences, diverse government regulations and tax systems, the ability to source high-quality ingredients and other commodities in a cost-effective manner, uncertain or differing interpretations of rights and obligations in connection with international franchise agreements and the collection of ongoing royalties from international franchisees, the availability and cost of land and construction costs, and the availability of experienced management, appropriate franchisees and area operating partners.Currency regulations and fluctuations in exchange rates could also affect our performance. We have direct investments in restaurants in South Korea, Hong Kong and Brazil, as well as international franchises, in a total of 21 countries and territories. As a result, we may experience losses from foreign currency translation, and such losses could adversely affect our overall sales and earnings. We are subject to governmental regulation throughout the world, including antitrust and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, import/export/customs regulations and other international trade regulations, the USA Patriot Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any new regulatory or trade initiatives could impact our operations in certain countries. Failure to comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Increased commodity, energy and other costs could adversely affect our business.The performance of our restaurants depends on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food commodities, including among other things beef, chicken, seafood, butter, cheese and produce. Prices may be affected due to market changes, the general risk of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply due to weather, disease or other conditions beyond our control, or other reasons. Increased prices or shortages could affect the cost and quality of the items we buy. These events, combined with other more general economic and demographic conditions, could impact our pricing and negatively affect our profit margins.The performance of our restaurants is also adversely affected by increases in the price of utilities, such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation, shortages or interruptions in supply, or otherwise. We use derivative instruments to mitigate some of our overall exposure to material increases in natural gas prices. We do not apply hedge accounting to these instruments, and any changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments are marked-to-market through earnings in the period of change. To date, effects of these derivative instruments have been immaterial to our financial statements for all periods presented.Our business also incurs significant costs for insurance, labor, marketing, taxes, real estate, borrowing and litigation, all of which could increase due to inflation, changes in laws, competition or other events beyond our control.Our ability to respond to increased costs by increasing menu prices or by implementing alternative processes or products will depend on our ability to anticipate and react to such increases and other more general economic and demographic conditions, as well as the responses of our competitors and customers. All of these things may be difficult to predict and beyond our control. In this manner, increased costs could adversely affect our performance.Infringement of our intellectual property could harm our business.We regard our service marks, including “Outback Steakhouse,” “Carrabba’s Italian Grill,” “Bonefish Grill” and “Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bar,” and our “Bloomin’ Onion” trademark as having significant value and as being important factors in the marketing of our restaurants. We have also obtained trademarks for several of our other menu items and for various advertising slogans. In addition, the overall layout, appearance and designs of our restaurants are valuable assets. We believe that these and other intellectual property are valuable assets that are critical to our success. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. We have registered certain trademarks and service marks and have other registration applications pending 31Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCin the United States and foreign jurisdictions. However, not all of the trademarks or service marks that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business and they may never be registered in all of these countries. There may not be adequate protection for certain intellectual property such as the overall appearance of our restaurants. We are aware of names and marks similar to our service marks being used by other persons in certain geographic areas in which we have restaurants. Although we believe such uses will not adversely affect us, further or currently unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and restaurant concepts and may adversely affect our business. We may be unable to detect such unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we have or intend to open or franchise a restaurant. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could damage or even destroy our brands and impair our ability to compete effectively. Even where we have effectively secured statutory protection for intellectual property, our competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property and our employees, consultants and suppliers may breach their obligations not to reveal our confidential information, including trade secrets. Although we have taken appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop products or concepts that are substantially similar to our restaurants and services. Despite our efforts, it may be possible for third-parties to reverse-engineer, otherwise obtain, copy, and use information that we regard as proprietary. Furthermore, defending or enforcing our trademark rights, branding practices and other intellectual property, and seeking injunctions against and/or compensation for misappropriation of confidential information, could result in the expenditure of significant resources.The interests of our controlling stockholders may conflict with the interests of any holder of the senior notes.Affiliates of Bain Capital Partners, LLC and Catterton Partners, together with certain co-investors, indirectly own approximately 79% of our equity securities. Their interests as equity holders may conflict with those of the noteholders. They may have an incentive to increase the value of their investment or cause us to distribute funds at the expense of our financial condition and affect our ability to make payments on the senior notes. In addition, they will have the power to elect a majority of our Board of Managers, which operates similarly to a Board of Directors (“Board of Directors”), and appoint new officers and management and, therefore, effectively control many significant operational decisions.Restaurant companies, including ours, have been the target of class action lawsuits and other proceedings alleging, among other things, violations of federal and state workplace and employment laws. Proceedings of this nature, if successful, could result in our payment of substantial damages.Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. In recent years, we and other restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been instituted from time to time alleging violations of various federal and state wage and hour laws regarding, among other things, employee meal deductions, the sharing of tips among certain employees, overtime eligibility of assistant managers and failure to pay for all hours worked. If we are required to pay substantial damages and expenses as a result of these or other types of lawsuits our business and results of operations would be adversely affected.Occasionally, our customers file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for some illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to one of our restaurants, including actions seeking damages resulting from food borne illness and relating to notices with respect to chemicals contained in food products required under state law. We are also subject to a variety of other claims from third parties arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims and claims alleging violations of federal and state laws. In addition, our restaurants are subject to state “dram shop” or similar laws which generally allow a person to sue us if that person was injured by a legally intoxicated person who was wrongfully served alcoholic beverages at one of our restaurants. The restaurant industry has also been subject to a growing number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains 32Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLChave led to the obesity of certain of their customers. We may also be subject to lawsuits from our employees, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or others alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. For example, in December 2009, we entered into a Consent Decree in settlement of certain litigation brought by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which required us to make a settlement payment of $19.0 million. In addition, during the four-year term of the Consent Decree, we are required to fulfill certain training, record-keeping and reporting requirements, maintain an open access system for restaurant employees to express interest in promotions, and employ a human resources executive. If we fail to comply with the terms of the Consent Decree, it could have adverse consequences on our business.Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations. In addition, they may generate negative publicity, which could reduce customer traffic and sales. Although we maintain what we believe to be adequate levels of insurance, insurance may not be available at all or in sufficient amounts to cover any liabilities with respect to these or other matters. A judgment or other liability in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims or any adverse publicity resulting from claims could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our insurance policies may not provide adequate levels of coverage against all claims, and fluctuating insurance requirements and costs could negatively impact our profitability. We are self-insured, or carry insurance programs with specific retention levels or deductibles, for a significant portion of our risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers' compensation, general liability, liquor liability, employment practices liability, property, health benefits and other insurable risks. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not commercially reasonable to insure. These losses, if they occur, could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, health insurance costs in general have risen significantly over the past few years and are expected to continue to increase. These increases could have a negative impact on our profitability, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully offset the effect of such increases with plan modifications and cost control measures, additional operating efficiencies or the pass-through of such increased costs to our customers or employees.Conflict or terrorism could negatively affect our business.We cannot predict the effects of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against any foreign state or group located in a foreign state or heightened security requirements on local, regional, national, or international economies or consumer confidence.Advertising and marketing programs and related costs could adversely affect our results of operations.If our competitors either increase their spending on marketing and advertising programs, or develop more effective campaigns, we could experience a negative effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are conducting ongoing brand awareness and customer loyalty programs. If these programs are not successful they may result in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues.Unfavorable publicity could harm our business.Our business could be negatively affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation, either against us or other restaurant companies, alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, adverse health effects (including obesity) or other concerns. Regardless of the validity of any such allegations, unfavorable publicity relating to any number of restaurants or even a single restaurant could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand.Additionally, unfavorable publicity towards a food product generally could negatively impact our business. For example, publicity regarding health concerns or outbreaks of disease in a food product could reduce demand for our menu offerings. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business.33Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCConsumer reaction to public health issues, such as an outbreak of flu viruses or other diseases, could have an adverse effect on our business.Our business could be harmed if the United States or other countries in which we operate experience an outbreak of flu viruses or other diseases. If a virus is transmitted by human contact, our employees or customers could become infected or could choose or be advised to avoid gathering in public places. This could adversely affect our restaurant traffic, our ability to adequately staff our restaurants, our ability to receive deliveries on a timely basis or our ability to perform functions at the corporate level. Our business could also be negatively affected if mandatory closures, voluntary closures or restrictions on operations are imposed in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may have a material adverse effect on our business.Food safety and food-borne illness concerns throughout the supply chain may have an adverse effect on our business.Food safety issues could be caused by food suppliers or distributors and, as a result, be out of our control. In addition, regardless of the source or cause, any report of food-borne illnesses and other food safety issues including food tampering or contamination, at one of our restaurants could adversely affect the reputation of our brands and have a negative impact on our sales. Even instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of our competitors could result in negative publicity about the food service industry generally and adversely impact our sales. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins.The food service industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may lessen the demand for our products, which would reduce sales and harm our business.Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid steak and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as more healthy, our business and operating results would be harmed. Additionally, if consumers’ perception of the economy deteriorates, consumers may change spending patterns to reduce discretionary spending, including dining at restaurants.We have long-term agreements and contracts with select suppliers. If our suppliers are unable to fulfill their obligations under their contracts, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs.We have a limited number of suppliers for our major products, such as beef. Due to the nature of our industry, we expect to continue to purchase a substantial amount of our beef from a small number of suppliers. Although we have not experienced significant problems with our suppliers, if our suppliers are unable to fulfill their obligations under their contracts, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs.Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of fresh food products could adversely affect our operating results. We are dependent on frequent deliveries of fresh food products that meet our specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which would adversely affect our operating results.We outsource certain accounting processes to a third-party vendor, which subjects us to many unforeseen risks that could disrupt our business, increase our costs and negatively impact our internal control processes. In early 2011, we began to outsource certain accounting processes to a third-party vendor. The third-party vendor may not be able to handle the volume of activity or perform the quality of service that we have currently achieved at a cost-effective rate, which could adversely affect our business. The decision to outsource was made based on cost savings initiatives; however, we may not achieve these savings because of unidentified intangible costs and legal and regulatory 34Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCmatters, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the transition of certain business processes to outsourcing could negatively impact our internal control processes. We rely heavily on information technology in our operations and any material failure, weakness, interruption or breach of security could prevent us from effectively operating our business. We rely heavily on information systems across our operations including for point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, payment of obligations, collection of cash, data warehousing to support analytics and other various processes and procedures. Our ability to efficiently and effectively manage our business depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, maintenance problems, upgrading or transitioning to new platforms, or a breach in security of these systems could result delays in customer service and reduce efficiency in our operations. Remediation of such problems could result in significant unplanned capital investments. Security breaches of confidential customer information in connection with our electronic processing of credit and debit card transactions may adversely affect our business. The majority of our restaurant sales are by credit or debit cards. Other restaurants and retailers have experienced security breaches in which credit and debit card information of their customers has been stolen. We may in the future become subject to lawsuits or other proceedings for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of our customers' credit or debit card information. Any such claim or proceeding, or any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations, may have a material adverse effect on our business.An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.We test goodwill for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists. Factors may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors would have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We compare the carrying value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of that reporting unit. If the carrying value is less than the fair value, no impairment exists. If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, there is an indication of impairment and a second step is required to measure a goodwill impairment loss, if any. We compute the amount of impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. We are required to record a non-cash impairment charge if the testing performed indicates that goodwill has been impaired.We evaluate our other intangible assets, primarily the Outback Steakhouse (domestic and international), Carrabba’s Italian Grill, Bonefish Grill, Flemings Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bar and Roy’s trademarks or trade names, to determine if they are definite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets.As with goodwill, we test our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment in the second quarter of each fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We estimate the fair value of these indefinite-lived intangible assets based on an income valuation model using the relief from royalty method, which requires assumptions related to projected revenues from our annual long-range plan, assumed royalty rates that could be payable if we did not own the assets and a discount rate.35Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLCDuring the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we did not record any goodwill or material intangible asset impairment charges. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $11.1 million and $43.7 million, respectively. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become further impaired, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Changes to estimates related to our property, fixtures and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain restaurant locations may cause us to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations. In accordance with accounting guidance as it relates to the impairment of long-lived assets, we make certain estimates and projections with regard to individual restaurant operations, as well as our overall performance in connection with our impairment analyses for long-lived assets. When impairment triggers are deemed to exist for any location, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are compared to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, an impairment charge equal to the difference between the carrying value and the sum of the discounted cash flows is recorded. The projections of future cash flows used in these analyses require the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from our estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The possibility of future misstatement exists due to inherent limitations in our control systems, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures will prevent all possible error and fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of error or fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake, which could have an adverse impact on our business.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNot applicable.36Table of ContentsOSI Restaurant Partners, LLC