Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company We rely on our independent sales agents and sales representatives to educate surgeons and to market our Products. Our ability to grow revenue depends largely upon arrangements we have with independent sales agents and sales representatives whereby they educate surgeons concerning our Products. We do not control these sales agents and sales representatives and they typically have relationships with other orthopedic companies, many of which are larger and have substantially more resources than we do. The relationship our sales agents and sales representatives have with these other orthopedic companies may generate more revenue for them than their relationship with us. As a result, they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans, may terminate their relationship with us, or may devote insufficient efforts to the sale of our Products. Our failure to attract and retain skilled independent sales agents and sale representatives and/or our failure to obtain sufficient time and effort for the sales and marketing of our Products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 8 Table of Contents The disruption in the global financial markets and the economic downturn may adversely impact our business. Our ability and the ability of our customers, suppliers and distributors to fund operations and to obtain financing for general corporate and commercial purposes is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Turmoil in global credit markets and the financial services industry may result in the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions, a general tightening of credit, and an unprecedented level of market intervention by governments. These events may adversely affect the United States and world economy, and may adversely affect the availability and cost of financing. There can be no assurances as to the length or severity of any period of disruption and related economic downturn. If our operations, financial performance or access to capital are adversely affected by these conditions, or if our customers, suppliers or distributors are adversely impacted by these conditions, it could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to execute on our business plan and compete successfully is dependent on our ability to continue to develop new and innovative products that are accepted by the market. Our business plan requires that we continue to develop and introduce new products to the market. We are engaged in product development and improvement programs and must continue to design and develop new innovative products, effectively distribute and achieve market acceptance of those products, and reduce the costs of producing our products to compete successfully with our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully design and develop innovative new products. Additionally, our competitors’ product development capabilities may be more effective than ours, our competitors’ new or improved products may be distributed to or accepted by the market before our products are, and our competitors may be able to produce products at a lower cost and thus offer products for sale at a lower price. Market acceptance of our products will depend on our ability to demonstrate the safety, clinical efficacy, perceived benefits, cost-effectiveness and third party reimburseability of our products compared to products or treatment options of our competitors, and to train physicians in the proper application of our products. We may not be successful in educating the marketplace about the benefits of using our products. Even if customers accept our products, this acceptance may not translate into sales if our competitors have developed similar products that our customers prefer. If there is any disruption at our primary processing facility, we may not be able to supply our customers with Products. The vast majority of the Products we distribute are processed in our facility located in Eatontown, New Jersey. A natural disaster or significant mechanical failure may impact our ability to process Products and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We take safeguards to protect the processing facility, our employees and our allograft tissue inventories and we maintain property insurance that includes business interruption coverage, which may not be sufficient to cover our losses depending on the nature of the event and length of time our facility was unavailable. We face strong competitive threats from firms with greater financial resources and lower costs. We compete in the biologics portion of the orthopedic market against autograft bone tissue, synthetic bone void fillers, growth factors and allograft bone tissue products. Autograft bone tissue has historically been the primary choice for surgeons and we believe autograft bone tissue is still considered the “gold standard” of care. We believe that a majority of the cadaveric bone banks operating in the United States are engaged in processing allograft bone tissue for transplantation. Many of these bone banks are not-for-profit organizations, and, as such, they may be able to supply products at a lower cost than we can. Several for-profit companies, certain of which have substantially greater resources than we do, are processing, marketing and distributing allograft bone tissue products. We compete with such entities on the basis of our advanced processing technology and the quality and quantity of the bone tissue our processing yields. We may not be able to continue to compete successfully in the area of allograft bone tissue processing and distribution. 9 Table of Contents In recent years, our Products have faced increasing competitive pressures as more companies have developed, or have announced they are developing, products with similar characteristics. Certain of those competitors have, in turn, partnered with large orthopedic and spine companies to market the competing products they have developed. We expect that this competition will continue in the future. Many of these competitors have research and development, marketing and other resources that are significantly greater than ours. They also offer a full line of metal implants and other products used in spinal surgeries. This could give them a competitive advantage over us since they can offer surgeons a more complete line of products than we can. Our Products face competitive threats from alternate technologies. The primary advantage of synthetic bone graft substitutes and growth factors as compared to allograft bone tissue is that they do not depend on the availability of donated human tissue. In addition, members of the medical community and the general public may perceive synthetic materials and growth factors as safer than allograft-based bone tissue products. Our products may be incapable of competing successfully with synthetic bone graft substitutes and growth factors developed and commercialized by others, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Companies are also developing new products and technologies for the surgical procedures in which we compete. If these products are successfully developed and commercialized, they could have a negative impact on our business and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may need to secure additional financing to fund our long-term strategic plan. We expect to continue to make investments in our business to support distribution effectiveness efforts, tissue supply initiatives, research and development activities and other future programs and initiatives, which may deplete available cash balances. We believe that our available cash, cash equivalents, available line of credit and anticipated future cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our forecasted cash needs for the near future. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: • the progress of our product development programs and the need for and associated costs relating to regulatory approvals, if any, which may be needed to commercialize some of our Products under development; • the commercialization efforts related to existing Products; and • the resources we devote to the research, development and manufacture of our current and future services and Products. We may need to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity and/or debt through private placements or public offerings to provide funds to meet the needs of our long-term strategic plan. Additional funds may not be available, or if available, may not be available on favorable terms. Further equity financings, if obtained, may substantially dilute the interest of our existing shareholders. Any additional debt financings may contain restrictive terms that limit our operating flexibility. As a result, any future financings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our dependence upon a supply of human donors may curtail business expansion. Our products and services depend upon the availability of allograft bone tissue and related connective tissue from human donors recovered by our clients and tissue banks which recover allograft bone tissue for us or from our own efforts in Bulgaria. We rely on the efforts of not-for-profit donor procurement agencies, including our current clients, to educate the public and foster an increased willingness to donate bone tissue. These organizations may not be able to find a sufficient number of persons willing to donate, or may not be willing to provide sufficient amounts of tissue to meet present or future demand for the products we distribute or any products or materials we are developing. Although we have taken steps to address tissue supply, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful in the future or that we will otherwise be able to secure a sufficient supply of tissue. Our inability to secure enough donor tissue to meet our demands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents Loss of key persons could limit our success. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and scientific and technical personnel. The competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the loss of services of our key personnel, particularly members of senior management, could adversely affect our business. Actions of activist stockholders may adversely impact our business. Several stockholders have filed Schedule 13D with the SEC on which they have indicated they intend to engage in discussions with our Board of Directors and/or management regarding our operations, the engagement of a strategic advisor, changing the composition of the Board of Directors and/or management or that they may nominate a full slate or a number of new nominees for election as directors at our next annual meeting. Our business may be adversely impacted by the actions of these activist stockholders if we are compelled to respond to proxy contests or other actions by such stockholders, which can be costly and time consuming, and which will disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our management and employees. We incurred a net loss and consumed a significant portion of our cash reserves in 2009. In 2009, we incurred a net loss of $4.0 million and consumed $8.1 million of our cash reserves. We have taken a number of actions to reduce or eliminate our losses and to rebuild our cash reserves, including launching new tissue products, reducing our workforce, initiated tissue inventory reduction programs and taking other cost cuttings measures. The success of these actions depends on a number of factors and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Therefore, there can be no assurance that actual results may not differ materially from our expectations or that our actions to reduce or eliminate our losses and to rebuild our cash reserves will be successful. Risks Related to Our Industry Our revenues will depend upon reimbursement from public and private insurers and national health systems. The ability of hospitals to pay fees for allograft bone tissue products depends in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the costs of such materials and related treatments will continue to be available from government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other organizations. We may have difficulty gaining market acceptance for our Products if government and third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. The medical community could choose not to use our allograft bone tissue products. We believe the market for allograft bone tissue products will continue to be based primarily upon the use of such products by physicians specializing in the orthopedic, spine, neurological and oral/maxillofacial surgical areas. Our future growth depends in part upon such physicians’ wider use of allograft bone tissue products as an alternative to autograft bone tissue and other available materials and treatments. We have tried to educate physicians through our marketing activities. Our future efforts in this regard may fail to generate additional demand for our tissue products. Governmental regulation could restrict the use of our Products or our procurement of tissue. In the United States, the procurement and transplantation of allograft bone tissue is subject to federal law pursuant to NOTA, a criminal statute which prohibits the purchase and sale of human organs used in human transplantation, including bone and related tissue, for “valuable consideration.” NOTA permits reasonable payments associated with the removal, transportation, processing, preservation, quality control, implantation and storage of human bone tissue. We provide services in all of these areas in the United States, with the exception of removal and implantation, and receive payments for all such services. We make payments to certain of our clients and tissue banks for their services related to recovering allograft bone tissue on our behalf. If NOTA is interpreted or enforced in a manner which prevents us from receiving payment for services we render or which prevents us from paying tissue banks or certain of our clients for the services they render for us, our business could be materially, adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We are engaged through our marketing employees, independent sales agents and sales representatives in ongoing efforts designed to educate the medical community as to the benefits of our Products, and we intend to continue our educational activities. Although we believe that NOTA permits payments in connection with these educational efforts as reasonable payments associated with the processing, transportation and implantation of our Products, payments in connection with such education efforts are not exempt from NOTA’s restrictions and our inability to make such payments in connection with our education efforts may prevent us from paying our sales representatives for their education efforts and could adversely affect our business and prospects. No federal agency or court has determined whether NOTA is, or will be, applicable to every allograft bone tissue-based material which our processing technologies may generate. Assuming that NOTA applies to our processing of allograft bone tissue, we believe that we comply with NOTA, but there can be no assurance that more restrictive interpretations of, or amendments to, NOTA will not be adopted in the future which would call into question one or more aspects of our method of operations. The United States federal health care laws apply to certain aspects of our business if a customer submits a claim for an item or service that is reimbursed under Medicare, Medicaid or most other federally-funded health care programs. Of principal importance to us, federal law prohibits unlawful inducements for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs (the “Anti-Kickback Law”), such as remuneration provided to physicians to induce them to use certain products or medical devices reimbursable by Medicare or Medicaid. The Anti-Kickback Law is subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Osteotech and its officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties including, for example, exclusion from participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by Medicare or Medicaid. Our Products are extensively regulated by federal and certain state agencies in the United States. Failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to administrative or judicial sanctions, such as the FDA’s refusal to clear pending applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, civil penalties, injunctions and/or criminal prosecution. In the United States, the allograft bone tissues that we process are regulated by the FDA either as human tissue-based products under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act or as a medical device under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. FDA regulations generally do not require minimally manipulated human tissue-based products be cleared or approved before they are marketed. We are, however, required to register and list these products with the FDA and to comply with regulations concerning tissue donor screening and testing, and related procedures and record keeping. The FDA periodically inspects tissue processors to determine compliance with these requirements. In May 2005, the FDA’s “Current Good Tissue Practice” regulations went into effect, which impose requirements on the manufacture of human tissue-based products, including tissue recovery, donor screening, donor testing, processing, storage, labeling, packaging and distribution. We believe we comply with all aspects of the Current Good Tissue Practice regulations, although there can be no assurance that we do comply or will comply in the future. Allograft bone tissue and tissue banking activities, such as tissue donation and recovery and tissue processing, are regulated in all countries in which we operate outside the United States. The regulatory schemes and specific requirements for these products and activities vary from country-to-country. There are no common or harmonized regulatory approvals or programs for these products and activities, such as there are for medical devices marketed in the European Union. We believe that we comply with the national regulations in the countries in which we currently operate or in the countries we plan to operate in the future, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so in the future. We may incur losses from product liability lawsuits. The testing and use of allograft bone tissue, bovine tissue products and medical devices which we process, manufacture or distribute, entail inherent risks of medical complications for patients and therefore may result in product liability claims against us. Further, our agreements with our clients provide that we shall indemnify them for liabilities arising out of defects caused by our processing. We maintain product liability insurance in the amount of $20.0 million per occurrence and per year in the aggregate. We may be unable to maintain such insurance in the future and such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all claims made against us or all types of liabilities, which may be asserted against us. 12 Table of Contents Negative publicity related to allograft bone tissue donation or tissue grafts may negatively impact the supply of available allograft tissue and may reduce the demand for our products. Negative publicity concerning the use and method of obtaining donated human tissue may reduce the demand for our Products or negatively impact the willingness of families of potential donors to agree to donate tissue, or tissue banks to provide tissue to us. In such event, we might not be able to obtain adequate tissue to meet the needs of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to enforce our patents or if it is determined that we infringe patents held by others it could damage our business. We consider our allograft bone tissue processing technology and procedures proprietary and rely primarily on patents to protect our technology and innovations. Consultants employed by third parties and persons working in conjunction with medical institutions unaffiliated with us have conducted significant research and development for our Products. Accordingly, disputes may arise concerning the proprietary rights to information applied to our projects, which have been independently developed. In addition, although we have attempted to protect our technology with patents, our existing patents may prove invalid or unenforceable as to products or services marketed by our competitors. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. Moreover, our existing or future Products and technologies could be found to infringe the patents of others. Prosecuting and defending patent lawsuits is very expensive. We are committed to aggressively asserting and defending our technology and related intellectual property, which we have spent a significant amount of time and money to develop. In addition, the industry in which we compete is known for having a great deal of litigation involving patents. These factors could cause us to become involved in new patent litigation in the future. The expense of prosecuting or defending these future lawsuits could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were to lose a patent lawsuit in which another party is asserting that our Products infringe its patents, we would likely be prohibited from marketing those Products and could also be liable for significant damages. Either or both of these results may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose a patent lawsuit in which we are claiming that another party’s products are infringing our patents and thus, are unable to enforce our patents, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitive position depends, in part, on unpatented trade secrets which we may be unable to protect. Our competitive position depends in part upon unpatented trade secrets, which are difficult to protect. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets, that our trade secrets will not be disclosed or that we can effectively protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets. In an effort to protect our trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute proprietary information and invention assignment agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that, except in specified circumstances, all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of their relationship with us must be kept confidential. We cannot assure you, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of the unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information. We may face lawsuits or governmental enforcement activities based on hazardous waste we generate in our operations. We are subject to federal, state, foreign, and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, treatment, remediation, and disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products (“Environmental Laws”). For example, our allograft bone tissue processing in both the United States and Europe generates waste materials, which we segregate and dispose of in compliance with applicable Environmental Laws. Although we believe that our procedures for handling and disposing of hazardous materials comply with the Environmental Laws, the Environmental Laws may be amended in ways that increase our cost of compliance, perhaps materially. Furthermore, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated, and there is also a risk that such contamination previously has occurred in connection with one of our facilities. Our failure to fully comply with any Environmental Laws could result in the imposition of penalties, sanctions or, in some cases, private lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Changes in the healthcare industry may require us to decrease the selling price for our products, may reduce the size of the market for our products, or may eliminate a market, any of which could have a negative impact on our financial performance. Trends toward managed care, healthcare cost containment and other changes in government and private sector initiatives in the United States and other countries in which we do business are placing increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies that could adversely affect the sale and/or the prices of our products. For example: • major third-party payors of hospital services and hospital outpatient services, including Medicare, Medicaid and private healthcare insurers, annually revise their payment methodologies, which can result in stricter standards for reimbursement of hospital charges for certain medical procedures or the elimination of reimbursement, which could create downward price pressure on our products; • potential legislative proposals have been considered that would result in major reforms in the United States healthcare system that could have an adverse effect on our business; • there has been a consolidation among healthcare facilities and purchasers of medical devices in the United States who prefer to limit the number of suppliers from whom they purchase medical products, and these entities may decide to stop purchasing our products or demand discounts on our prices; • we are party to contracts with group purchasing organizations, which negotiate pricing for many member hospitals, that require us to discount our prices for certain of our products and limit our ability to raise prices for certain of our products; • there is economic pressure to contain healthcare costs in domestic and international markets; • there are proposed and existing laws, regulations and industry policies in domestic and international markets regulating the sales and marketing practices and the pricing and profitability of companies in the healthcare industry; • proposed laws or regulations that will permit hospitals to provide financial incentives to doctors for reducing hospital costs (known as gainsharing) and to award physician efficiency (known as physician profiling) could reduce prices; and • there have been initiatives by third-party payors to challenge the prices charged for medical products that could affect our ability to sell products on a competitive basis. Both the pressures to reduce prices for our products in response to these trends and the decrease in the size of the market as a result of these trends could adversely affect our revenue. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of many other companies in our industry, has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our common stock will fluctuate in the future. Over the past three years, the sale price for our common stock, as reported by NASDAQ, has fluctuated from a low of $1.31 to a high of $8.70. The market price of our common stock could be impacted by a variety of factors, including: • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors, • disclosure of the results of regulatory proceedings, • changes in government regulation, • developments in the patents or other proprietary rights owned or licensed by us or our competitors, • public concern as to the safety and efficacy of products developed by us or others, • availability of required amounts of bone and related connective tissue, • litigation, and • general market conditions overall or just in our industry. In addition, the stock market continues to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have especially affected the market price of many biotechnology companies. Such fluctuations have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Nonetheless, these broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 14 Table of Contents Events with respect to our share capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We had 18,063,510 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009. The following securities that may be exercised into shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2009: • Options. Stock options to purchase 1,386,812 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of approximately $6.04 per share. • Restricted stock units. 434,283 shares of our common stock may be issuable upon the vesting of outstanding restricted stock units. The shares of our common stock that may be issued under currently outstanding options and restricted stock units are currently registered with the SEC. The issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect rights of common stockholders or discourage a takeover. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized shares of Series E Junior Participating Preferred Stock (Series E Preferred Stock) in connection with its adoption of a stockholder rights plan, under which we issued rights to purchase Series E Preferred Stock to holders of our common stock. Upon certain triggering events, such rights become exercisable to purchase common stock (or, in the discretion of our Board of Directors, Series E Preferred Stock) at a price substantially discounted from the then current market price of the common stock. Our stockholder rights plan may generally discourage a merger or tender offer involving our securities that is not approved by our Board of Directors by increasing the cost of effecting any such transaction and, accordingly, could have an adverse impact on stockholders who might want to vote in favor of such merger or participate in such tender offer. Our stockholder rights plan expires in January 2020. While we have no present intention to authorize any additional series of preferred stock, such issuance, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could also have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. The preferred stock may have other rights, including economic rights senior to the common stock, and, as a result, the issuance thereof could have a material adverse effect on the market value of the common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 