Risk Factors The following offers a brief overview of some of the risk factors to be considered in relation to the business of Sunrise, including its related subsidiaries. Specific risk factors to be considered include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks and Issues Associated with Sunrise An investment in Sunrise is highly speculative, involves a considerable degree of risk and is suitable only for persons or entities which have very substantial financial means and who can afford to hold their ownership interests for an indefinite period of time. While various oil and gas investment opportunities are abundant, potential investors should consider the risks that pertain to oil and gas development projects in general, and ventures in Ukraine in particular. Technical Risk Return on investment is dependent upon successful oil and gas production from EP and Pari’s’s projects. 8 Market risk In the event of successful development of additional oil and gas reserves, the marketing of Sunrise’s production of oil and gas from such reserves may be dependent on market fluctuations and the availability of processing and refining facilities and transportation infrastructure, including access to shipping facilities, pipelines and pipeline capacity at economically viable tariffs over which Sunrise may have limited or no control. Pipelines may be inadequately maintained and subject to capacity constraints and tariffs may be increased with little or no notice and without taking into account producer concerns. In addition, EP’s ability to export oil and gas may depend on obtaining licenses and quotas, the granting of which may be at the discretion of the relevant regulatory authorities. There may be delays in obtaining such export licenses and quotas leading to the income receivable by Sunrise from the export of oil and gas being adversely affected In the event, we complete the transaction with Millington Solutions LLC and transfer all or substantially all of our assets to Millington, we will be come a blank-check company and will begin searching for a viable business opportunity or a viable merger candidate. There is no assurance that such opportunity will materialize and no assurance as to the timing of a merger transaction. Reliance on strategic relationships In conducting its business, Sunrise will rely on continuing existing strategic relationships and forming new ones with other entities in the oil and gas industry, such as joint venture partners, joint activity agreement partners, production sharing agreement partners and certain regulatory and governmental departments. There can be no assurance that our existing relationships will continue to be maintained or that new ones will be successfully formed. Until July 2007, Sunrise’s operation of Wells #2 and #3 on Karaikozovsk Lease were subject to a joint activity agreement with Okhtyrkanaftogaz, a subsidiary of the state-controlled Ukrnafta. After July 2007, the above joint activity agreement was terminated and superceded by a well lease agreement. Competition A number of other oil and gas companies operate, and are allowed to bid for exploration and production licenses and other interests, in Ukraine, thereby providing competition to the Company. Larger companies, in particular, may have access to greater resources than Sunrise which may give them a competitive advantage. Prices for oil and gas The demand for, and price of, oil and gas is highly dependent on a variety of factors, including international supply and demand, the level of consumer demand, weather conditions, the price and availability of alternative fuels, actions taken by governments and international cartels, and global economic and political developments. International oil prices have fluctuated widely in recent years and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The Company believes it may benefit significantly due to the recent developments in the Ukrainian market for gas. In addition, and although not foreseen, the Ukrainian government may oblige domestic producers to sell oil or gas to the state or domestic purchasers at prices well below international levels for indeterminate periods of time. Currency Exchange Risk Domestic sales of oil and gas in Ukraine are denominated in local currency (Hryvnia). The US$:Hryvnia exchange rate may move adversely to affect our revenues expressed in US dollars. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Ukrainian authorities may not introduce price stabilization mechanisms which adversely affect oil and gas prices in US dollar terms. While many of Sunrise’s financial obligations are denominated in United States dollars, a number of foreign currency effects may arise from exchange rate movements. Sunrise does not hedge its exposure to UAH/USD exchange rate risk. While the UAH/USD exchange rate stayed flat at UAH5.05 to $1 for almost 6 years prior to 2008, during the second half of 2008, the Ukrainian hryvna weakened to UAH7.70 to $1 which is equivalent to 34% devaluation. Due to Ukraine’s political and economic turmoil, the exchange rate is expected to fluctuate broadly in the near future while maintaining a general devaluation trend. Economic and political risk Sunrise’s operations are confined to Ukraine where there may be a number of associated risks that maybe outside of the Company’s control. These risks may include contract renegotiation, contract cancellation, economic, social, or political instability or change, hyperinflation, currency non-convertibility or instability and changes of laws affecting foreign ownership, government participation, taxation, working conditions, rates of exchange, exchange controls, exploration licensing and petroleum export licensing and export duties as well as government control over domestic oil and gas pricing. 9 Legal systems Ukraine and other jurisdictions in which Sunrise might operate in the future may have less developed legal systems than more established economies which could result in risks such as (i) effective legal redress in the courts of such jurisdictions, whether in respect of a breach of law or regulation, or in an ownership dispute, being more difficult to obtain; (ii) a higher degree of discretion on the part of governmental authorities; (iii) the lack of judicial or administrative guidance on interpreting applicable rules and regulations; (iv) inconsistencies or conflicts between and within various laws, regulations, decrees, orders and resolutions; or (v) relative inexperience of the judiciary and courts in such matters. In certain jurisdictions the commitment of local business people, government officials and agencies and the judicial system to abide by legal requirements and negotiated agreements may be more uncertain, creating particular concerns with respect to Sunrise’s licenses and agreements for business. These may be susceptible to revision or cancellation and legal redress may be uncertain or delayed. There can be no assurance that joint activity agreements, joint ventures, licenses, license applications or other legal arrangements will not be adversely affected by the actions of government authorities or others and the effectiveness of and enforcement of such arrangements in these jurisdictions cannot be assured. Drilling and operating risks Exploration, development and production activities may be delayed or adversely affected by factors outside Sunrise’s controls. These include adverse climatic conditions, the performance of joint venture or farm-in partners on whom EP may be or may become reliant, compliance with governmental requirements, shortage or delays in installing and commissioning plant and equipment or import or customs delays. Problems may also arise due to the quality or failure of locally obtained equipment or interruptions to services (such as power, water, fuel or transport or processing capacity) or technical support which result in failure to achieve expected target dates for exploration or production and/or result in a requirement for greater expenditure. Drilling may involve unprofitable efforts, not only with respect to dry holes and non-commercial wells, which are wells that, though yielding some oil or gas, are not sufficiently productive to justify commercial development or cover operating and other costs. Completion of a well does not ensure a profit on the investment or recovery of drilling, completion and operating costs. Substantial operational risks are involved in the drilling for, development of and production from oil and gas fields, including blow-outs, cratering, explosions, pollution, seepage or leaks, fire, earthquake activity, unusual or unexpected geological conditions and other hazards which may delay, or ultimately prevent, the exploitation of such fields or may result in cost overruns or substantial losses to Sunrise due to substantial environmental pollution or damage, personal injury or loss of life, clean up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties or suspension of operations. Such hazards can also severely damage or destroy equipment, surrounding areas or property of third parties. Damage or loss occurring as a result of such risks may give rise to claims against EP, Pari and/or Sunrise. Environmental Regulation The Government of Ukraine, the Ministry of Natural Resources, and other competent agencies establish special rules, restrictions and standards for enterprises conducting activities affecting the Ukrainian environment. A principle of Ukrainian environmental law is that any environmental damage caused by an unlawful activity (i.e. activity conducted in violation of existing standards and restrictions) must be fully compensated. Sunrise is not aware of any claims, demands, proceedings or other actions against Sunrise EP or Pari in respect of environmental matters. Uninsured Risks There may be circumstances where Sunrise’s insurance or that of the operator of a field will not cover or be adequate to cover the consequences of certain events or where the Company may become liable for pollution or other operational hazards against which it either cannot insure or may have elected not to have insured on account of high premium costs or otherwise. Moreover, there can be no assurance that Sunrise will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates the Board of Directors consider reasonable. Thus, Sunrise may become subject to liability for hazards which cannot be insured against or against which it may elect not to be insured because of high premium costs or other commercial reasons. There can be no assurance that Sunrise will be able to obtain insurance at reasonable rates (or at all), or that any coverage it obtains will be adequate and available to cover any such claims. 10 Dependence on Key Personnel Sunrise is dependent on the services of certain key executives and personnel for its success. While Sunrise may enter into employment contracts with those persons, the retention of their services cannot be guaranteed. In addition, EP and Pari may find it difficult to recruit new executives and employees. The business may suffer if Sunrise fails to attract, hire or retain the necessary personnel or to retain existing employees. Risks Associated with International Operations We are subject to risks inherent to international operations, including adverse governmental actions, political risks and expropriation of assets, loss of revenues and the risk of civil unrest or war. Our primary oil and gas properties are located in Ukraine, which until 1990 was part of the Soviet Union. Ukraine retains many of the laws and customs from the former Soviet Union, but has developed and is continuing to develop its own legal, regulatory and financial systems. As the political and regulatory environment changes, we may face uncertainty with respect to the interpretation of our agreements and in the event of dispute, may have limited recourse within the current or future legal and political system. Transferability of our common shares Sunrise Energy Resources` common stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board quotation system under the symbol SEYR.OB. On or about February 1, 2005 NevWest Securities, a NASD member firm filed Form 15c211 with the NASD to initiate quotation of our post transaction stock on the OTCBB quotation system. Our common stock began quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board on or about May 23, 2005. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company issued 1,837,655 shares to purchasers outside the United States in consideration of the net proceeds of $1,837,655. The sale of the shares is exempt from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as the purchaser had full information concerning the business and affairs of Registrant and all certificates issued bear appropriate restrictive legends. No underwriter was involved in the transaction. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Name As described in Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, the Company amended and restated its Certificate of Incorporation effective October 1, 2004. A copy of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-QSB. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation increased the Company’s authorized Capital from 10,000,000 shares of $1.00 par value common stock to 77,500,000 million shares, par value $0.001, of which up to 2,500,000 shares may be designated as preferred shares, par value $0.001. In addition, the name of the Company was changed from Sunrise Energy Services, Inc. to Sunrise Energy Resources, Inc. 