ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before investing in our common stock. If any of the events anticipated by the risks described below occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, causing you to lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with the Company. The Company's auditors have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern: The independent auditor's report on our financial statements contains explanatory language that substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern. The report states that we depend on raising additional equity to continue our operations. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing in the near term, then we would, in all likelihood, experience severe liquidity problems and may have to curtail our operations. If we curtail our operations, we may be placed into bankruptcy or undergo liquidation, the result of which will adversely affect the value of our common shares. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company’s net loss was $1,193,838 and our accumulated deficit was $9,008,610. 2 Management may not run the company in a profitable manner and if it does not you may lose your entire investment: Our management has limited experience in our areas of operation. Thus, the day-to-day operations of the businesses in which we are involved depend upon the abilities of management of our joint venture partners We may not be able to locate and acquire joint venture partners and any failure to identify suitable joint venture partners may result in losses to us and our investors: With the exception of Bio Pulp Works, LLC, ISS, and REEM, the Company has not yet identified any joint venturers. While we plan on pursuing "green" technology companies or projects similar in size, scope and focus to Bio Pulp Works, LLC, ISS, and REEM, we may not be able to joint venture with companies that are similarly situated as we currently intend. Intense competition can be expected from existing, better financed and more established competitors, who are also seeking to create or purchase profitable businesses. Numerous other firms have substantially greater resources in locating and/or acquiring potential project or joint venture partners. Management has limited previous experience in identifying suitable joint venture partners. In addition, in each instance our contracts with the above-described companies are limited in scope and may not be profitable even if those companies are otherwise profitable. Our joint venture with Rare Earth Exporters of Mongolia may require a significant cash investment and may not generate positive net income: Rare Earth Exporters of Mongolia Pte. Ltd., a Singapore company (“REEM”), is required to contribute its knowledge and product development skills to our joint venture, while we are required to contribute the operating capital. The joint venture has not developed a business plan and our joint venture agreement does not define the amount of capital nor the degree of knowledge and skills each party must contribute. Moreover, significant cash may be required to cause the joint venture to become a viable business. Currently, we have no cash to fund the joint venture, nor do we have any plan as to how we are going to obtain such funds. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the funds or expertise necessary to cause the joint venture to become an operating entity will ever be provided. Neither our joint venture with BioPulp Works, LLC nor our Profit Participation Agreement with Integrated Smart Solutions, Inc. has yet produced any revenue or viable business opportunities: We have nearly completed our required investment in our joint venture with BioPulp Works, LLC and it has not yet produced any new products, markets or other business opportunities. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the joint venture will ever achieve results that permit the Company to recoup its investment or otherwise obtain any revenue. While our Profit Participation Agreement with Integrated Smart Solutions, Inc. (“ISS”) provides the Company with perpetual participation in the net profits of ISS’s smart grid technology products, to date ISS has no products and the Company has no assurances that ISS will ever generate any net profits. We may not have access to sufficient capital to pursue our acquisition strategies and therefore would be unable to achieve our planned future growth: We intend to pursue a growth strategy that includes acquiring or investing in new companies or creating joint ventures with third parties. There is a risk that we will not have access to sufficient capital to pursue our acquisition strategies. We may take an extended period of time to locate and investigate specific target companies, and if one or more target companies are located, the negotiation and execution of the relevant agreements may require substantial time, effort and expense. Our ability to continue to make acquisitions will depend primarily on our ability to obtain additional private or public equity or debt financing. Such financing may not be available to make future investments. During the year ended December 31, 2011 and during the period from December 31, 2011 through the date of this report, we have financed our operations through working capital advances. There is no guarantee that funds will continue to be available to us or that we will continue to borrow funds on terms that are acceptable to the Company. We currently do not have any arrangements for financing and we may not be able to obtain financing when required. If we are unable to obtain the funds needed to operate our business, we would not be able to continue as a going concern. A portion our debt is payable on demand. If the lender demanded payment, we do not have adequate funds on hand to repay the debt. 3 Our lack of diversification subjects investors to a greater risk of losses: In the event we are successful in identifying and evaluating one or more suitable merger or acquisition candidates, which may not occur, we may be required to issue shares of our common stock in an acquisition or merger transaction. Inasmuch as our capitalization is limited, it is unlikely that we will be capable of completing more than a limited number of mergers or acquisitions. Consequently, our potential lack of diversification may subject us to economic fluctuation within the single industry or limited number of industries in which we may acquire an interest. Control of the Company may change and any new management may not successfully run our business: As of March 28, 2012, we have outstanding convertible debt in the amount of $298,421 which could be converted into 11,364,978 shares of common stock. If the debt were fully converted it would result in a significant ownership dilution to existing shareholders. In addition, if the interest on such debt is not paid, it is added to principal and thereafter can be converted into additional shares at the same rate. Accordingly, failure to pay interest when due could result in further dilution. One shareholder controls a material percentage of common shares outstanding potentially adversely affecting investor’s influence over corporate affairs: One shareholder beneficially owns 71% of the Company’s issued and outstanding Common Shares, on an undiluted basis, based on 31,202,694 common shares issued and outstanding as of March 28, 2012. As a result, it has the ability to influence matters affecting the Company’s shareholders, including the election of directors, the acquisition or disposition of assets, and the future issuance of shares. Due to this shareholder’s control over such shares, investors may find it difficult to replace the management if they disagree with the way the Company’s business is being operated. The Company’s limited financial resources will require the Company to seek additional funding, potentially diluting existing shareholders or increasing financial risk thorough debt issuance: The Company has limited financial resources. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to generate funds from operations or to obtain sufficient financing in the future on terms acceptable to it or at all. The ability of the Company to arrange additional financing in the future will depend, in part, on the prevailing capital market conditions as well as the business performance of the Company. Failure to obtain additional financing on a timely basis or at all may cause the Company to postpone, abandon, reduce or terminate its operations and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Any sale of common shares will result in dilution of equity ownership to existing shareholders. This means that if the Company sells common shares, more shares will be outstanding and each existing shareholder will own a smaller percentage of the shares then outstanding. Alternatively, the Company may rely on debt financing and assume debt obligations that require it to make substantial interest and capital payments. Also, the Company may issue or grant warrants or options in the future pursuant to which additional common shares may be issued. Exercise of such warrants or options will result in dilution of equity ownership to the Company’s existing shareholders. Our common stock is subject to penny stock regulation: Our shares are subject to the provisions of Section 15(g) and Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), commonly referred to as the "penny stock" rule. Section 15(g) sets forth certain requirements for transactions in penny stocks and Rule 15g-9(d)(1) incorporates the definition of penny stock as that used in Rule 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. The Commission generally defines penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Rule 3a51-1 provides that any equity security is considered to be penny stock unless that security is: registered and traded on a national securities exchange meeting specified criteria set by the Commission; authorized for quotation on the NASDAQ Stock Market; issued by a registered investment company; excluded from the definition on the basis of price (at least $5.00 per share) or the registrant's net tangible assets; or exempted from the definition by the Commission. Since our shares are deemed to be "penny stock", trading in the shares will be subject to additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell penny stock to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. 4 We do not intend to pay cash dividends: We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We may not have sufficient funds to legally pay dividends. Even if funds are legally available to pay dividends, we may nevertheless decide in our sole discretion not to pay dividends. The declaration, payment and amount of any future dividends will be made at the discretion of the board of directors, and will depend upon, among other things, the results of our operations, cash flows and financial condition, operating and capital requirements, and other factors our board of directors may consider relevant. There is no assurance that we will pay any dividends in the future, and, if dividends are declared, there is no assurance with respect to the amount of any such dividend. Because our stock is quoted on the over-the-counter market, our shareholders may have difficulty selling their stock or experience increased negative volatility on the market price of our stock: Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB over-the-counter quotation system. The OTCQB is often highly illiquid, in part because it does not have a national quotation system by which potential investors can follow the market price of shares except through information received and generated by a limited number of broker-dealers that make markets in particular stocks. There is a greater chance of volatility for securities that trade on the OTCQB as compared to a national exchange or quotation system. This volatility may be caused by a variety of factors, including the lack of readily available price quotations, the absence of consistent administrative supervision of bid and ask quotations, lower trading volume, and market conditions. Our shareholders may experience high fluctuations in the market price and volume of the trading market for our securities. These fluctuations, when they occur, have a negative effect on the market price for our securities. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be able to realize a fair price from their shares when they determine to sell them or may have to hold them for a substantial period of time until the market for our common stock improves. Continued failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results: We have failed to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. To maintain these controls, we will need to hire additional financial reporting, internal auditing and other finance staff in order to develop and implement appropriate additional internal controls, processes and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with these requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to achieve effective internal controls, and will have to disclose this in our Exchange Act reports. If we fail to comply in a timely manner with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding internal control over financial reporting or to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal controls that we may identify, such failure could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. In connection with our on-going assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we have and may in the future discover "material weaknesses" in our internal controls as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB. A material weakness is a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The PCAOB defines "significant deficiency" as a deficiency that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. In the event that a material weakness is identified, we will attempt to adopt and implement policies and procedures to address any material weaknesses that we identify. However, the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the measures we will take will remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial process and reporting in the future. We may not have the financial or other resources to maintain effective internal control. Any failure to complete our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify or to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations of our internal controls and, in the case of a failure to remediate any material weaknesses that we may identify, would adversely affect the annual management’s reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 5 We have limited operating history and lack of profits which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price, and the market price for our common shares is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly traded public float: The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or "risky" investment due to our limited operating history and lack of profits to date, and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our potential acquisitions and their products and services. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Risks Associated with the Company’s Planned Mining Operations We do not have experience in placing mining properties into production: We have no experience in placing mineral properties into production and our ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreement with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that we will have available to us the necessary expertise to take a mineral deposit into production. We rely on joint venture partners, consultants, geologists and engineers to perform our exploration activities: Any potential development and production of exploration properties depend upon the results of exploration programs and/or feasibility studies and the recommendations of duly qualified engineers and geologists. We do not have the personnel to perform these tasks internally and therefore rely exclusively on our joint venture partners and experts in these capacities. Failure of these third parties could adversely affect our business. We require substantial funds merely to determine whether commercial mineral deposits exist on our properties: Programs to determine mineral deposits require substantial additional funds, which the Company needs to first acquire or finance. Substantial expenditures are required to develop the exploration infrastructure at any site chosen for exploration, to establish rare earth reserves, to carry out environmental and social impact assessments, and to develop metallurgical processes to extract the metal from the ore. We may not be able to discover minerals in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operation, and we may not be able to obtain funds required for exploration on a timely basis. We currently have no plan to acquire or finance these activities. Accordingly, you could lose your entire investment. Our joint venture partners may have other business interests or may be unsuccessful, which could be adverse to our interests: We are pursuing business projects that are heavily dependent upon joint venture partners. Our joint venture partners in Mongolia, Indonesia, and the United States may have interests in projects in which we do not have an interest. Any such projects may occupy more of their resources and capital. In addition, such projects may compete in the marketplace with the activities of our joint ventures. As a result, there is no assurance that any of our joint venture partners will be as committed to or dependent upon any joint venture as we are. In addition, failure of our joint venture partners to perform as required or expected could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are attempting to operate in the resource industry, which is highly speculative, and has certain inherent exploration risks which could have a negative effect on our operations: Resource exploration is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond its control and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors such as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environment protection. Any one or a combination of these factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on its investment capital. 6 We are pursuing projects in Mongolia, a developing country with has historically experienced periods of civil unrest and political and economic instability: Although management believes the political and economic climate of Mongolia is currently stable, any negative changes in governmental laws, regulations, economic conditions, or political attitudes in Mongolia are beyond the control of the Company and may adversely affect our business. The mining industry is highly competitive: We will be competing with numerous companies, substantially all with far greater resources available to them. We therefore will be at a significant disadvantage in the course of acquiring mining properties and obtaining materials, supplies, labor, and equipment. Additionally, even if we begin production, we are and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of mining properties. A large number of established and well-financed companies are active in the mining industry and will have an advantage over us if they are competing for the same properties. Nearly all such entities have greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than ourselves and, consequently, we will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible mining properties and procuring the same. We have no known reserves, no economic reserves may exist on properties we are pursuing, and we may not be able to obtain rights to deposits we are investigating, all of which could have a negative effect on our operations and valuation: Despite commencing due diligence exploration work on certain properties, no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits have been established on any of its mineral properties. In addition, the Company is at the exploration stage on all of properties it has identified and substantial additional work will be required in order to determine if any economic deposits exist on any such properties. The Company may expend substantial funds in exploring these properties only to abandon them and lose its entire expenditure on the properties if no commercial or economic quantities of minerals are found or if we are unable to secure rights to exploit the same. Even if commercial quantities of minerals are discovered and we obtain the necessary rights to them, the exploration properties might not be brought into a state of commercial production. Finding mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, including the technical skill of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are the particular attributes of the deposit, such as content of the deposit including harmful substances, size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as element prices and the availability of power and water in sufficient supply to permit development. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the entity conducting such mineral exploration. The Company is an exploration stage company with no history of pre-tax profit and no income from its operations. There can be no assurance that its operations will be profitable in the future. There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by the Company in the exploration of properties will result in discoveries of mineralized material in commercial quantities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of mineral reserves will in fact be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) mineral deposit which can be legally and economically exploited. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production. If the Company is unsuccessful in its exploration efforts, it may be forced to acquire additional projects or cease operations. Our intended operations contain significant uninsured risks which could negatively impact future profitability: The Company’s exploration of its mineral properties contains certain risks, including unexpected or unusual operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, fire and earthquakes. It is not always possible to insure against these risks. Should events such as these arise, they could reduce or eliminate the Company’s assets and shareholder equity as well as result in increased costs and a decline in the value of the Company’s securities. The Company currently has no insurance and expects to maintain only general liability and director and officer insurance but no insurance against its properties or operations. We may decide to take out this insurance in the future if it is available at economically viable rates. Mineral operations are subject to market forces outside of our control which could negatively impact our operations: The marketability of minerals is affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control including market fluctuations, government regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, imports, exports and supply and demand. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on the costs of the Company’s operations and if significant enough, reduce the profitability of its operations and threaten its continuation. Permitting, licensing and approval processes are required for the Company’s operations and obtaining and maintaining these permits and licenses is subject to conditions which the Company may be unable to achieve: Many of the operations of the Company require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. The Company believes it holds or is in the process of obtaining all necessary licenses and permits to carry on the activities which it is currently conducting or proposes to conduct under applicable laws and regulations. Such licenses and permits are subject to changes in regulations and changes in various operating circumstances. There can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to maintain its exploration and mining activities including constructing mines or milling facilities and commencing operations of any of its exploration properties. In addition, if the Company proceeds to production on any exploration property, it must obtain and comply with permits and licenses which may contain specific operating conditions. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain such permits and licenses or that it will be able to comply with any such conditions. 7 The Company’s operations are subject to environmental risks and compliance with environmental regulations which are increasing and costly: Environmental legislation and regulation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Compliance with environmental quality requirements and reclamation laws imposed by federal, state, provincial, and local governmental authorities may require significant capital outlays, materially affect the economics of a given property, cause material changes or delays in intended activities, and potentially expose the Company to litigation. The Company cannot accurately predict or estimate the impact of any such future laws or regulations, or future interpretations of existing laws and regulations, on the Company’s operations. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for, and prices of, rare earth products: We are seeking to derive revenues, if any, from the sale of rare earth and related minerals. Changes in demand for, and the market price of, these minerals could significantly affect our profitability. The value and price of our common stock and our financial results may be significantly adversely affected by declines in the prices of rare earth minerals and products. Rare earth minerals and product prices may fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control such as interest rates, exchange rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies on the world market, global and regional supply and demand for rare earth minerals and products, and the political and economic conditions of countries that produce rare earth minerals and products. A prolonged or significant economic contraction in the United States or worldwide could put further downward pressure on market prices of rare earth minerals and products. Protracted periods of low prices for rare earth minerals and products could significantly reduce revenues and the availability of required development funds in the future. Even if we commence production, this could cause substantial reductions to, or a suspension of, production operations, impair asset values and reduce our proven and probable rare earth ore reserves. In contrast, extended periods of high commodity prices may create economic dislocations that may be destabilizing to rare earth minerals supply and demand and ultimately to the broader markets. Periods of high rare earth mineral market prices generally are beneficial to our financial performance. However, strong rare earth mineral prices also create economic pressure to identify or create alternate technologies that ultimately could depress future long-term demand for rare earth minerals and products, and at the same time may incentivize development of otherwise marginal mining properties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 