ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. IDEXX's Future Growth and Profitability Depend on Several Factors The future success of our business depends upon our ability to successfully implement various strategies, including: • Developing, manufacturing and marketing new products with new features and capabilities, including pharmaceutical products; a new clinical chemistry instrument; and rapid assay, water testing and production animal diagnostic products, as well as improving and enhancing existing products; • Developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business areas for us; • Increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the connectivity of these products, including the connectivity among the IDEXX VetLab® instrument suite, Cornerstone® practice information management system, the IDEXX-PACS™ software and IDEXX Reference Laboratories; • Expanding our market by expanding the installed base of our instrumentation through customer acquisition and retention and increasing use of our products by our customers; • Strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the U.S. and in geographies outside of the U.S.; and • Reducing the costs of manufacturing our products and providing services through operating efficiencies and increased focus on quality. However, we may not be able to successfully implement some or all of these strategies and increase or sustain our rate of growth or profitability. Our Products and Services Are Subject to Various Government Regulations In the U.S., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”), U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). Most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the USDA prior to sale. Our water testing products must be approved by the EPA before they can be used by customers in the U.S. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the EPA. Our pharmaceutical and dairy testing products require approval by the FDA. The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. Any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the U.S. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or removals of our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have entered into an agreement with the FDA under which we have agreed, among other things, to perform specified lot release and stability testing of our SNAP® beta-lactam dairy-testing products and to provide related data to the FDA. If the FDA were to determine that one or more lots of product failed to meet applicable criteria for product performance or stability, the FDA could take various actions, including requiring us to recall products or restricting our ability to sell these products. Sales of dairy antibiotic residue-testing products were $15.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Commercialization of animal health pharmaceuticals in the U.S. requires prior approval by the FDA. To obtain such approvals, we are required to submit substantial clinical, manufacturing and other data to the FDA. Regulatory approval for products submitted to the FDA may take several years and, following approval, the FDA continues to regulate all aspects of the manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping and promotion of pharmaceutical products. Failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, FDA approval for new pharmaceutical products would have a negative impact on our future growth. 9 We Purchase Materials for Our Products from a Limited Number of Sources We currently purchase many products and materials from single sources or a limited number of sources. Some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily replaced by alternative sources. These products include our VetTest® Chemistry, VetAutoread™ Hematology, VetLyte® Electrolyte, and VetStat™ Electrolyte and Blood Gas Analyzers and related consumables; certain digital radiography system components, specifically image capture plates and readers; active ingredients for pharmaceutical products; and certain components of our SNAP® rapid assay devices, water testing products and LaserCyte® Hematology Analyzers. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of these products in the future, we could face cost increases or reductions or delays in product shipments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The slides sold for use in our VetTest® Chemistry Analyzers are purchased under an agreement with Ortho that, as of December 31, 2005, required us to purchase a minimum of $92.7 million of slides through 2010. We purchase our electrolyte instruments, components and consumables under an agreement with Roche Diagnostics, under which we are required to purchase a minimum of $4.1 million of these products through 2006. We purchase our VetAutoread™ Hematology Analyzers, components and consumables under an agreement with QBCD, under which we are required to make aggregate minimum purchases of $18.0 million through 2020. If demand for any of the products purchased under these agreements is insufficient to support our minimum purchase obligations for those products, we could incur losses related to those obligations. In addition, because we purchase the products at predetermined prices, our profits on sales of these products could decline if we are unable to maintain current pricing levels for such products. Our Biologic Products Are Complex and Difficult to Manufacture Many of our rapid assay and production animal diagnostic products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. Manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. Unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. Difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. We attempt to mitigate risk associated with the manufacture of biologics by continuing to improve the characterization of all of our input materials, utilizing multiple vendors, manufacturing some of these materials ourselves and maintaining substantial inventories of materials that have demonstrated the appropriate characteristics. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. Our inability to obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Success Is Heavily Dependent Upon Our Proprietary Technologies We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. If we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who develop substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. We cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. Even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. In the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. Patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. We cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. If we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. Any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 Our Sales Are Dependent on Distributor Purchasing Patterns We sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the U.S., through distributors. Because significant product sales are made to a limited number of customers, unanticipated changes in the timing and size of distributor purchases can have a negative effect on quarterly results. Our financial performance, therefore, is subject to an unexpected downturn in product demand and may be unpredictable. Distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. Consolidation within distribution channels would increase our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. Our Markets Are Competitive and Subject to Rapid and Substantial Technological Change We face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. We expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing and improving technologies. Some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, have substantially greater capital, manufacturing, marketing, and research and development resources than we do. Changes in Diagnostic Testing Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results The market for diagnostic tests could be negatively impacted by the introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services. Eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. Our production animal services business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence and government-mandated testing programs. Such declines in diagnostic testing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. International Revenue Accounts for a Significant Portion of Our Total Revenue For the year ended December 31, 2005, 34% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the U.S. Various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales. Possible risks include fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. Prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the U.S. due to competitive, market or other factors. As a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results for that period. In addition, many of the products for which our selling price may be denominated in foreign currencies are manufactured, sourced, or both, in the U.S. and our costs are incurred in U.S. dollars. We utilize nonspeculative forward currency exchange contracts to mitigate foreign currency exposure, however, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we sell these products would reduce our operating margins. The Loss of Our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Could Adversely Affect Our Business We rely on the management and leadership of Jonathan W. Ayers, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. We do not maintain key man life insurance coverage for Mr. Ayers. The loss of Mr. Ayers could have a material impact on our business. 11 We Could Be Subject to Class Action Litigation Due to Stock Price Volatility, which, if Occurs, Could Result in Substantial Costs or Large Judgments Against Us The market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If Our Quarterly Results of Operations Fluctuate, This Fluctuation May Cause Our Stock Price to Decline, Resulting in Losses to You Our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, research and development expenditures, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors’ product offerings; and other matters. Similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. Future Operating Results Could Be Materially Affected By the Resolution of Various Uncertain Tax Positions and Adversely Affected by Potential Changes to Tax Incentives In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities. We believe that we have adequately accrued for all potential tax liabilities and, although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. If we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, our inability to use these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 