ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations including those discussed in Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Associated with our Disclosure Controls and Internal Control over Financial Reporting We recently completed the remediation of our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. However, our disclosure controls and procedures may not be effective in future periods if our judgments prove incorrect or new material weaknesses are identified. For each of the fiscal quarters since December 31, 2004 through September 30, 2008, our management reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency (within the meaning of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("PCAOB") Auditing Standard No. 5), or a combination of deficiencies, that adversely affects a company's ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that for each of the fiscal quarters since December 31, 2004 through September 30, 2008, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that financial information that we are required to disclose in our reports under the Exchange Act was recorded, processed, summarized and reported accurately. To address these material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, each time we prepared our annual and quarterly reports we performed additional analyses and other post-closing procedures. These additional procedures were costly, time consuming and required us to dedicate a significant amount of our resources, including the time and attention of our senior management, toward the correction of these problems. Nevertheless, even with these additional procedures, the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting caused us to have errors in our financial statements and since 2003 we had to restate our annual financial statements six times to correct these errors. The material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting also caused us to delay the filing of certain quarterly and annual reports with the SEC to dates that went beyond the deadline prescribed by the SEC's rules to file such reports. Under SEC rules, failure to timely file these reports prohibited us for a period of twelve months from offering and selling our securities pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S-3, which impaired our ability to access the capital markets through the public sale of registered securities in a timely manner. The failure to file our annual and quarterly reports with the SEC in a timely fashion also resulted in covenant defaults under our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing certain of our outstanding debt securities. Such defaults required us to obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior secured credit facility; however the default under the indentures was cured upon the filing of the reports within the permitted grace period. In addition to these problems, the material weaknesses in internal controls, the restatements of our financial statements and the delay in the filing of our annual and quarterly reports exposed us to other risks including, but not limited to: •litigation or an expansion of the SEC's informal inquiry into our restatements or the commencement of formal proceedings by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or to pay damages, fines or other penalties; 54 Table of Contents •negative publicity; •ratings downgrades; or •the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. As of December 31, 2008, our management has reported in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that for the first time in four years all of our previously identified material weaknesses had been remediated and that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls were effective. For a discussion of our completed remediation efforts and management assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls, see Item 9A–Controls and Procedures in this Form 10-K. In making their assessment about the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures, management had to make certain judgments and it is possible that any number of their judgments were wrong and that our remediation efforts did not fully and completely cure the previously identified material weaknesses. There is also the possibility that there are other material weaknesses in our internal control that are unknown to us or that new material weaknesses may develop in the future. The existence of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting would subject us to all of the risks described above. Furthermore, any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls is subject to risks that those internal controls may become inadequate in future periods because of changes in business conditions, changes in accounting practice or policy, or that the degree of compliance with the revised policies or procedures deteriorates over time. Management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal controls will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Our identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting caused us to miss deadlines for certain SEC filings and if further filing delays occur, they could result in negative attention and/or legal consequences for the Company. Our identification of the material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting caused us to delay the filing of certain quarterly and annual reports with the SEC to dates that went beyond the deadline prescribed by the SEC's rules to file such reports. We did not timely file with the SEC our quarterly and annual reports for the year ended December 31, 2005, our quarterly reports for the second and third quarters of 2006, our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2006, and our quarterly report for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. Under SEC rules, failure to timely file these reports prohibited us for a twelve month period from offering and selling our securities pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S-3, which impaired our ability to access the capital markets through the public sale of registered securities in a timely manner. The failure to file our annual and quarterly reports with the SEC in a timely fashion also resulted in covenant defaults under our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing certain of our outstanding debt securities. Such defaults required us to obtain a waiver from the lenders under the senior secured credit facility; however the default under the indentures was cured upon the filing of the reports within the permitted grace period. If we identify new material weaknesses, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that a related default under our senior secured credit facility and indentures could occur. In addition, the material weaknesses in internal controls, the restatements of our financial statements, and the delay in the filing of our annual and 55 Table of Contents quarterly reports and any similar problems in the future could have other adverse effects on our business, including, but not limited to: •impairing our ability to access the capital markets, including, but not limited to the inability to offer and sell securities pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3; •litigation or an expansion of the SEC's informal inquiry into our restatements or the commencement of formal proceedings by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which could require us to incur significant legal expenses and other costs or to pay damages, fines or other penalties; •additional covenant defaults, and potential events of default, under our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding debt securities, resulting from our failure to timely file our financial statements; •negative publicity; •ratings downgrades; or •the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. Risks Related to our High Level of Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt, a large percentage of which is secured, which could adversely affect our business and the ability to fulfill our obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $18.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis. All outstanding borrowings under The AES Corporation's senior secured credit facility, our Second Priority Senior Secured Notes and certain other indebtedness are secured by certain of our assets, including the pledge of capital stock of many of The AES Corporation's directly-held subsidiaries. Most of the debt of The AES Corporation's subsidiaries is secured by substantially all of the assets of those subsidiaries. Since we have such a high level of debt, a substantial portion of cash flow from operations must be used to make payments on this debt. Furthermore, since a significant percentage of our assets are used to secure this debt, this reduces the amount of collateral that is available for future secured debt or credit support and reduces our flexibility in dealing with these secured assets. This high level of indebtedness and related security could have other important consequences to us and our investors, including: •making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; •increasing the likelihood of a downgrade of our debt, which can cause future debt payments to increase and consume an even greater portion of cash flow; •increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •reducing the availability of cash flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our business; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and •limiting, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants relating to such indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, limit, but do not prohibit, the incurrence of additional indebtedness. To the extent we become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Accordingly, our cash flows may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all 56 Table of Contents of the outstanding debt as it becomes due and, in that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms or at all to refinance our debt as it becomes due. In recent months, these risks have increased as conditions in the global economy, including credit markets worldwide, have deteriorated dramatically. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. The AES Corporation is a holding company and its ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness, including its public debt securities, is dependent upon the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries by way of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. The AES Corporation is a holding company with no material assets, other than the stock of its subsidiaries. All of The AES Corporation's revenue is generated through its subsidiaries. Accordingly, almost all of The AES Corporation's cash flow is generated by the operating activities of its subsidiaries. Therefore, The AES Corporation's ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund its other obligations is dependent not only on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate cash, but also on the ability of the subsidiaries to distribute cash to it in the form of dividends, fees, interest, loans or otherwise. However, our subsidiaries face various restrictions in their ability to distribute cash to The AES Corporation. Most of the subsidiaries are obligated, pursuant to loan agreements, indentures or project financing arrangements, to satisfy certain restricted payment covenants or other conditions before they may make distributions to The AES Corporation. In addition, the payment of dividends or the making of loans, advances or other payments to The AES Corporation may be subject to legal or regulatory restrictions. Business performance and local accounting and tax rules may limit the amount of retained earnings that may be distributed to us as a dividend. Subsidiaries in foreign countries may also be prevented from distributing funds to The AES Corporation as a result of foreign governments restricting the repatriation of funds or the conversion of currencies. Any right that The AES Corporation has to receive any assets of any of its subsidiaries upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceedings (and the consequent right of the holders of The AES Corporation's indebtedness to participate in the distribution of, or to realize proceeds from, those assets) will be effectively subordinated to the claims of any such subsidiary's creditors (including trade creditors and holders of debt issued by such subsidiary). The AES Corporation could receive less funds than it expects as a result of the current challenges facing the global economy, which could impact the performance of our businesses and their ability to distribute cash to The AES Corporation. For further discussion of the macroeconomic environment and its impact on our business, see Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. The AES Corporation's subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, unless they have expressly guaranteed any of The AES Corporation's indebtedness, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to such debt or to make any funds available whether by dividends, fees, loans or other payments. While some of The AES Corporation's subsidiaries guarantee its indebtedness under its Senior Secured Credit Facility and certain other indebtedness, none of its subsidiaries guarantee, or are otherwise obligated with respect to, its outstanding public debt securities. Even though The AES Corporation is a holding company, existing and potential future defaults by subsidiaries or affiliates could adversely affect The AES Corporation. We attempt to finance our domestic and foreign projects primarily under loan agreements and related documents which, except as noted below, require the loans to be repaid solely from the project's revenues and provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely 57 Table of Contents by the capital stock, physical assets, contracts and cash flow of that project subsidiary or affiliate. This type of financing is usually referred to as non-recourse debt or "project financing." In some project financings, The AES Corporation has explicitly agreed to undertake certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities, most of which by their terms will only be effective or will be terminated upon the occurrence of future events. These obligations and liabilities take the form of guarantees, indemnities, letter of credit reimbursement agreements and agreements to pay, in certain circumstances, the project lenders or other parties. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $18.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, of which approximately $5.2 billion was recourse debt of The AES Corporation and approximately $12.9 billion was non-recourse debt. In addition, we have outstanding guarantees, letters of credit, and other credit support commitments which are further described in this Form 10-K in Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources and Liquidity—Parent Company Liquidity. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in our consolidated balance sheets related to such defaults was $129 million at December 31, 2008. While the lenders under our non-recourse project financings generally do not have direct recourse to The AES Corporation (other than to the extent of any credit support given by The AES Corporation), defaults there under can still have important consequences for The AES Corporation, including, without limitation: •reducing The AES Corporation's receipt of subsidiary dividends, fees, interest payments, loans and other sources of cash since the project subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to The AES Corporation during the pendency of any default; •triggering The AES Corporation's obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support which The AES Corporation has provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; •causing The AES Corporation to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; •triggering defaults in The AES Corporation's outstanding debt and trust preferred securities. For example, The AES Corporation's senior secured credit facility and outstanding senior notes include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, The AES Corporation's senior secured credit facility includes certain events of default relating to accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries; or •the loss or impairment of investor confidence in the Company. None of the projects that are currently in default are owned by subsidiaries that meet the applicable definition of materiality in The AES Corporation's senior secured credit facility in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of future write-down of assets, dispositions and other matters that affect our financial position and results of operations, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby upon an acceleration of such subsidiary's debt, trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under The AES Corporation's senior secured credit facility. The risk of such defaults may have increased as a result of the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these conditions, see Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. 58 Table of Contents Risks Associated with our Ability to Raise Needed Capital The AES Corporation has significant cash requirements and limited sources of liquidity. The AES Corporation requires cash primarily to fund: •principal repayments of debt; •interest and preferred dividends; •acquisitions; •construction and other project commitments; •other equity commitments, including business development investments; •taxes; and •Parent Company overhead costs. The AES Corporation's principal sources of liquidity are: •dividends and other distributions from its subsidiaries; •proceeds from debt and equity financings at the Parent Company level; and •proceeds from asset sales. For a more detailed discussion of The AES Corporation's cash requirements and sources of liquidity, please see Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources and Liquidity in this 2008 Form 10-K. While we believe that these sources will be adequate to meet our obligations at the Parent Company level for the foreseeable future, this belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital or commercial lending markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, our ability to sell assets, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. Any number of assumptions could prove to be incorrect and therefore there can be no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. For example, in the current credit crisis, certain financial institutions have gone bankrupt. In the event that a bank who is party to our credit agreement or other facilities goes bankrupt or is otherwise unable to fund its commitments, we would need to replace that bank in our syndicate or risk a reduction in the size of the facility, which would reduce our liquidity. In addition, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay at maturity the entire principal outstanding under our credit facilities and our debt securities and we may have to refinance such obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such refinancing and any of these events could have a material effect on us. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Our ability to grow our business could be materially adversely affected if we were unable to raise capital on favorable terms. From time to time, we rely on access to capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Our ability to arrange for financing on either a recourse or non-recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •general economic and capital market conditions; 59 Table of Contents •the availability of bank credit; •investor confidence; •the financial condition, performance and prospects of The AES Corporation in general and/or that of any subsidiary requiring the financing; and •changes in tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. Since 2007, credit conditions and credit markets have weakened considerably and deteriorated dramatically in 2008, which has made it difficult for many companies to arrange for financing on a recourse or non-recourse basis. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Should future access to capital not be available to us, we may have to sell assets or decide not to build new plants or expand or improve existing facilities, either of which would affect our future growth. A downgrade in the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets which could increase our interest costs or adversely affect our liquidity and cash flow. If any of the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries were to be downgraded, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be impaired and our borrowing costs would increase. Furthermore, depending on The AES Corporation's credit ratings and the trading prices of its equity and debt securities, counterparties may no longer be as willing to accept general unsecured commitments by The AES Corporation to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, The AES Corporation may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace any credit support by The AES Corporation. There can be no assurance that such counterparties will accept such guarantees in the future. In addition, to the extent The AES Corporation is required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties, it will limit the amount of credit available to The AES Corporation to meet its other liquidity needs. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital to fund "greenfield" projects in certain less developed economies which could change or in some cases adversely affect our growth strategy. Part of our strategy is to grow our business by developing Generation and Utility businesses in less developed economies where the return on our investment may be greater than projects in more developed economies. Commercial lending institutions sometimes refuse to provide non-recourse project financing in certain less developed economies, and in these situations we have sought and will continue to seek direct or indirect (through credit support or guarantees) project financing from a limited number of multilateral or bilateral international financial institutions or agencies. As a precondition to making such project financing available, the lending institutions may also require governmental guarantees of certain project and sovereign related risks. There can be no assurance, however, that project financing from the international financial agencies or that governmental guarantees will be available when needed, and if they are not, we may have to abandon the project or invest more of our own funds which may not be in line with our investment objectives and would leave less funds for other projects. These risks have increased as a result of the recent credit crisis and the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. 60 Table of Contents External Risks Associated with Revenue and Earnings Volatility Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates experienced at our foreign operations. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity's functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the United States are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies where our subsidiaries outside the United States report could cause significant fluctuations in our results. In addition, while our expenses with respect to foreign operations are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, we have transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in the subsidiary's functional currency. We also experience foreign transaction exposure to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are in a different currency than the subsidiary's functional currency. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. Our financial position and results of operations have been significantly affected by fluctuations in the value of a number of currencies, primarily the Brazilian real, Argentine peso, Chilean peso, Colombian peso and Philippine peso. As our Brazilian and Argentine businesses primarily identify their local currency as their functional currency, recent depreciation of these currencies has resulted in the increase of deferred translation losses (foreign currency translation adjustments recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss) based on positive net asset positions. Devaluation has also resulted in foreign currency transaction losses primarily associated with U.S. Dollar debt at these businesses. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the wholesale electricity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Some of our Generation businesses sell electricity in the wholesale spot markets in cases where they operate wholly or partially without long-term power sales agreements. Our Utility businesses and, to the extent they require additional capacity, our Generation businesses, also buy electricity in the wholesale spot markets. As a result, we are exposed to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets. The open market wholesale prices for electricity are very volatile and often reflect the fluctuating cost of coal, natural gas, or oil. Consequently, any changes in the supply and cost of coal, natural gas, and oil may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity may result from among other things: •plant availability; •competition; •demand for energy commodities; •electricity usage; •seasonality; •interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuation; •availability and price of emission credits; •input prices; 61 Table of Contents •hydrology and other weather conditions; •illiquid markets; •transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies; •availability of competitively priced renewables sources; •available supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal; •generating unit performance; •natural disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events; •energy, market and environmental regulation, legislation and policies; •geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas; and •general economic conditions in areas where we operate which impact energy consumption. The Company has faced gas curtailments in the past. For example, gas supply in the Argentine market is increasingly scarce and exports have been both taxed and curtailed. Gas supply curtailments can be exacerbated during the Argentine winter (May through September) when domestic demand for electricity experiences a seasonal increase. Since substantially all of the gas used in the Chilean power sector is currently imported from Argentina, gas curtailments can impact our Chilean operations through higher fuel costs and higher costs of purchased energy from the spot market. Our natural gas-fired plant in Southern Brazil, Uruguaiana, has also been impacted by limited fuel supply. Since 2004, Uruguaiana has had its gas supply interrupted from May to September. During this period, Uruguaiana purchases energy from the spot market and through bilateral contracts to fulfill its sales contracts and has paid higher fuel prices as a result. During the fourth quarter of 2007, the combination of gas curtailments and increases in the spot market price of energy triggered an impairment analysis of Uruguaiana's long-lived assets for recoverability. As a result of this impairment analysis, aggregate pre-tax impairment charges of $388 million were recognized in 2008 and 2007 which represents a full impairment of the fixed assets. In addition, our business depends upon transmission facilities owned and operated by others. If transmission is disrupted or capacity is inadequate or unavailable, our ability to sell and deliver power may be limited, which may have a material adverse impact on our business. We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates. We routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity, fuel requirements and other commodities to lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. We also enter into contracts which help us to hedge our interest rate exposure on variable debt. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price (or interest rate) volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Furthermore, the risk management procedures we have in place may not always be followed or may not work as planned. In particular, if prices of commodities (or interest rates) significantly deviate from historical prices or if the price volatility (or interest rates) or distribution of these changes deviates from historical norms, our risk management system may not protect us from significant losses. As a result, fluctuating commodity prices may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged or inadequately hedged positions. In addition, certain types of economic hedging activities may not qualify for hedge accounting under GAAP, resulting in increased volatility in our net income. In addition, there is a risk that the current parties to these arrangements may fail or are unable to perform their obligations under these arrangements. 62 Table of Contents Supplier and/or customer concentration may expose the Company to significant financial credit or performance risks. We often rely on a single contracted supplier or a small number of suppliers for the provision of fuel, transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of certain of our facilities. If these suppliers cannot perform, we would seek to meet our fuel requirements by purchasing fuel at market prices, exposing us to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price. At times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility's output, in some cases under long-term agreements that account for a substantial percentage of the anticipated revenue from a given facility. We have also hedged a portion of our exposure to power price fluctuations through forward fixed price power sales. Counterparties to these agreements may breach or may be unable to perform their obligations. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements, or at all. If we were unable to enter into replacement PPAs, we would sell our plants' power at market prices. The failure of any supplier or customer to fulfill its contractual obligations to The AES Corporation or our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Consequently, the financial performance of our facilities is dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance by, suppliers and customers. Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather. Our businesses are affected by variations in general weather conditions and unusually severe weather. Our businesses forecast electric sales on the basis of normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. While we also consider possible variations in normal weather patterns and potential impacts on our facilities and our businesses, there can be no assurance that such planning can prevent these impacts, which can adversely affect our business. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less demand for electricity than forecasted. Significant variations from normal weather where our businesses are located could have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, we are dependent upon hydrological conditions prevailing from time to time in the broad geographic regions in which our hydroelectric generation facilities are located. If hydrological conditions result in droughts or other conditions that negatively affect our hydroelectric generation business, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the past, our businesses in Latin America have been negatively impacted by lower than normal rainfall. Risks Associated with our Operations We do a significant amount of business outside the United States, including in developing countries, which presents significant risks. A significant amount of our revenue is generated outside the United States and a significant portion of our international operations is conducted in developing countries. Part of our growth strategy is to expand our business in developing countries because the growth rates and the opportunity to implement operating improvements and achieve higher operating margins may be greater than those typically achievable in more developed countries. International operations, particularly the operation, financing and development of projects in developing countries, entail significant risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: •economic, social and political instability in any particular country or region; •adverse changes in currency exchange rates; 63 Table of Contents •government restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds; •unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary or fiscal policies; •high inflation and monetary fluctuations; •restrictions on imports of coal, oil, gas or other raw materials required by our generation businesses to operate; •threatened or consummated expropriation or nationalization of our assets by foreign governments; •difficulties in hiring, training and retaining qualified personnel, particularly finance and accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP expertise; •unwillingness of governments, government agencies, similar organizations or other counterparties to honor their contracts; •unwillingness of governments, government agencies, courts or similar bodies to enforce contracts that are economically advantageous to subsidiaries of the Company and economically unfavorable to counterparties, against such counterparties, whether such counterparties are governments or private parties; •inability to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative and legal systems; •adverse changes in government tax policy; •difficulties in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a just result in local jurisdictions; and •potentially adverse tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions. Any of these factors, by itself or in combination with others, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the second quarter of 2007, we sold our stake in EDC to Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. ("PDVSA"), the state owned energy company in Venezuela after Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez threatened to expropriate the electricity business in Venezuela. In connection with the sale, we recognized an impairment charge of approximately $680 million. In addition, our Latin American operations experience volatility in revenues and gross margin which have caused and are expected to cause significant volatility in our results of operations and cash flows. The volatility is caused by regulatory and economic difficulties, political instability and currency devaluations being experienced in many of these countries. This volatility reduces the predictability and enhances the uncertainty associated with cash flows from these businesses. The operation of power generation and distribution facilities involves significant risks that could adversely affect our financial results. The operation of power generation and distribution facilities involves many risks, including: •equipment failure causing unplanned outages; •failure of transmission systems; •the dependence on a specified fuel source, including the transportation of fuel; •catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and similar occurrences; and •environmental compliance. 64 Table of Contents Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our generation and distribution facilities. In addition, a portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generating equipment may require significant capital expenditures for maintenance. This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of a power purchase or other agreement or incurring a liability for liquidated damages. As a result of the above risks and other potential hazards associated with the power generation and distribution industries, we may from time to time become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, hurricanes and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or certain external events. The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on the existence of operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans and specific programs supported by quality control systems which reduce, but do not eliminate the possibility of the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazards described above can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in us being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is adequate, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured could hurt our financial results and materially harm our financial condition. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, we cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available to us or at all. Any losses not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our ability to attract and retain skilled people could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operating success and ability to carry out growth initiatives depends in part on our ability to retain executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience in our industry and in operating a company of our size and complexity, including people in our foreign businesses. The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. In particular, we routinely are required to assess the financial and tax impacts of complicated business transactions which occur on a worldwide basis. These assessments are dependent on hiring personnel on a worldwide basis with sufficient expertise in U.S. GAAP to timely and accurately comply with U.S. reporting obligations. An inability to maintain adequate internal accounting and managerial controls and hire and retain qualified personnel could have an adverse affect on our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations. 65 Table of Contents We have contractual obligations to certain customers to provide full requirements service, which makes it difficult to predict and plan for load requirements and may result in increased operating costs to certain of our businesses. We have contractual obligations to certain customers to supply power to satisfy all or a portion of their energy requirements. The uncertainty regarding the amount of power that our power generation and distribution facilities must be prepared to supply to customers may increase our operating costs. A significant under or over-estimation of load requirements could result in our facilities not having enough or having too much power to cover their obligations, in which case we would be required to buy or sell power from or to third parties at prevailing market prices. Those prices may not be favorable and thus could increase our operating costs. We may not be able to enter into long-term contracts, which reduce volatility in our results of operations. Even when we successfully enter into long-term contracts, our generation businesses are dependent on one or a limited number of customers and a limited number of fuel suppliers. Many of our generation plants conduct business under long-term contracts. In these instances, we rely on power sales contracts with one or a limited number of customers for the majority of, and in some case all of, the relevant plant's output and revenues over the term of the power sales contract. The remaining terms of the power sales contracts range from 1 to 25 years. In many cases, we also limit our exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices by entering into long-term contracts for fuel with a limited number of suppliers. In these instances, the cash flows and results of operations are dependent on the continued ability of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations under the relevant power sales contract or fuel supply contract, respectively. Some of our long-term power sales agreements are at prices above current spot market prices and some of our long-term fuel supply contracts are at prices below current market prices. The loss of significant power sales contracts or fuel supply contracts, or the failure by any of the parties to such contracts that prevents us from fulfilling our obligations thereunder, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, depending on market conditions and regulatory regimes, it may be difficult for us to secure long-term contracts, either where our current contracts are expiring or for new development projects. The inability to enter into long-term contracts could require many of our businesses to purchase inputs at market prices and sell electricity into spot markets. Because of the volatile nature of inputs and power prices, the inability to secure long-term contracts could generate increased volatility in our earnings and cash flows and could generate substantial losses during certain periods which could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. We have sought to reduce counter party credit risk under our long-term contracts in part by entering into power sales contracts with utilities or other customers of strong credit quality and by obtaining guarantees from the sovereign government of the customer's obligations. However, many of our customers do not have, or have failed to maintain, an investment grade credit rating, and our Generation business can not always obtain government guarantees and if they do, the government does not always have an investment grade credit rating. We have also sought to reduce our credit risk by locating our plants in different geographic areas in order to mitigate the effects of regional economic downturns. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful. These risks have increased as a result of the deteriorating global economy. For further discussion of these global economic conditions and their potential impact on the Company, see Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Credit Crisis and the Macroeconomic Environment. Competition is increasing and could adversely affect us. The power production markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental or operating 66 Table of Contents experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. Further, in recent years, the power production industry has been characterized by strong and increasing competition with respect to both obtaining power sales agreements and acquiring existing power generation assets. In certain markets, these factors have caused reductions in prices contained in new power sales agreements and, in many cases, have caused higher acquisition prices for existing assets through competitive bidding practices. The evolution of competitive electricity markets and the development of highly efficient gas-fired power plants have also caused, or are anticipated to cause, price pressure in certain power markets where we sell or intend to sell power. These competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in our operating performance or cost structure. We are in the business of generating and distributing electricity, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect financial and operating performance, including: •changes in the availability of our generation facilities or distribution systems due to increases in scheduled and unscheduled plant outages, equipment failure, labor disputes, disruptions in fuel supply, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements or catastrophic events such as fires, floods, storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, explosions, terrorist acts or other similar occurrences; and •changes in our operating cost structure including, but not limited to, increases in costs relating to: gas, coal, oil and other fuel; fuel transportation; purchased electricity; operations, maintenance and repair; environmental compliance, including the cost of purchasing emissions offsets and capital expenditures to install environmental emission equipment; transmission access; and insurance. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and our ability to meet publicly announced projections or analysts' expectations. Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions. Certain of our subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of their respective employees. Of the twenty four defined benefit plans, three are at U.S. subsidiaries and the remaining plans are at foreign subsidiaries. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be wrong, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. The Company periodically evaluates the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund the respective pension obligations. The Company's exposure is mitigated due to the fact that the asset allocations in our largest plans are more heavily weighted to investments in fixed income securities that have not been as severely impacted by the recent equity market declines. Nevertheless, given the recent significant declines in financial markets, the value of these pension plan assets has declined and our future pension expense and funding obligations have increased. In addition, future downturns in the equity markets, or the failure of any of our assumptions underlying the estimates of our subsidiaries' pension plan obligations, could result in an increase in pension expense and funding requirements in future periods, which may be material. Our subsidiaries who participate in these plans are responsible for funding any shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. This may necessitate additional cash contributions to the pension plans that could adversely affect our and our subsidiaries' liquidity. 67 Table of Contents For additional information regarding the funding position of the Company's pension plans, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates—Pension and Postretirement Obligations" and Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Our business is subject to substantial development uncertainties. Certain of our subsidiaries and affiliates are in various stages of developing and constructing "greenfield" power plants, some but not all of which have signed long-term contracts or made similar arrangements for the sale of electricity. Successful completion depends upon overcoming substantial risks, including, but not limited to, risks relating to failures of siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals or the potential for termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain milestones. Financing risk has also increased as a result of the deterioration of the global economy and the crisis in the financial markets, and as a result, we may forgo certain development opportunities. We believe that capitalized costs for projects under development are recoverable; however, there can be no assurance that any individual project will be completed and reach commercial operation. If these development efforts are not successful, we may abandon a project under development and write off the costs incurred in connection with such project. At the time of abandonment, we would expense all capitalized development costs incurred in connection therewith and could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. Our acquisitions may not perform as expected. Historically, acquisitions have been a significant part of our growth strategy. We may continue to grow our business through acquisitions. Although acquired businesses may have significant operating histories, we will have a limited or no history of owning and operating many of these businesses and possibly limited or no experience operating in the country or region where these businesses are located. Some of these businesses may be government owned and some may be operated as part of a larger integrated utility prior to their acquisition. If we were to acquire any of these types of businesses, there can be no assurance that: •we will be successful in transitioning them to private ownership; •such businesses will perform as expected; •we will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities; •such business will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them; or •the rate of return from such businesses will justify our decision to invest our capital to acquire them. In April 2008, the Company completed the purchase of a 92% interest in a 660 gross MW coal-fired thermal power generation facility in Masinloc, Philippines ("Masinloc") from the Power Sector Assets & Liabilities Management Corporation, a state enterprise, for $930 million in cash. Immediately after the acquisition, the Company embarked upon a comprehensive rehabilitation program to improve the output, reliability and general condition of the plant. As a result, operating losses have been reduced and the business is expected to generate a profit in 2009. However, in the event that the progress made does not continue, or Masinloc performs worse than expected, the Company could incur further operating losses which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further losses could also trigger an impairment of the assets held by Masinloc. 68 Table of Contents In some of our joint venture projects, we have granted protective rights to minority holders or we own less than a majority of the equity in the project and do not manage or otherwise control the project, which entails certain risks. We have invested in some joint ventures where we own less than a majority of the voting equity in the venture. Very often, we seek to exert a degree of influence with respect to the management and operation of projects in which we have less than a majority of the ownership interests by operating the project pursuant to a management contract, negotiating to obtain positions on management committees or to receive certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, we do not always have this type of control over the project in every instance; and we may be dependent on our co-venturers to operate such projects. Our co-venturers may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects optimally. The approval of co-venturers also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from projects or to transfer our interest in projects. In some joint venture agreements where we do have majority control of the voting securities, we have entered into shareholder agreements granting protective minority rights to the other shareholders. For example, Brasiliana Energia ("Brasiliana") is a holding company in which we have a controlling equity interest and through which we own three of our four Brazilian businesses: Eletropaulo, Tietê and Uruguaiana. We entered into a shareholders' agreement with an affiliate of the Brazilian National Development Bank ("BNDES") which owns more than 49 percent of the voting equity of Brasiliana. Among other things, the shareholders' agreement requires the consent of both parties before taking certain corporate actions, grants both parties rights of first refusal in connection with the sale of interests in Brasiliana and grants drag-along rights to BNDES. In May, 2007, BNDES notified us that it intends to sell all of its interest in Brasiliana pursuant to public auction (the "Brasiliana Sale"). BNDES also informed us that if we fail to exercise our right of first refusal to purchase all of its interest in Brasiliana, then BNDES intends to exercise its drag-along rights under the shareholders' agreement and cause us to sell all of our interests in Brasiliana in the Brasiliana Sale as well. After the auction, if a third party offer has been received in the Brasiliana Sale, we will have 30 days to exercise our right of first refusal to purchase all of BNDES's interest in Brasiliana on the same terms as the third- party offer. If we do not exercise this right and BNDES proceeds to exercise its drag-along rights, then we may be forced to sell all of our interest in Brasiliana. Due to the uncertainty in the sale price at this point in time, we are uncertain whether we will exercise our right of first refusal should BNDES receive a valid third-party offer in the Brasiliana Sale and, if we do, whether we would do it alone or with joint venture partners. Even if we desire to exercise our right of first refusal, we cannot assure that we will have the cash on hand or that debt or equity financing will be available at acceptable terms in order to purchase BNDES's interest in Brasiliana. If we do not exercise our right of first refusal, we cannot be assured that we will not have to record a loss if the sale price is below the book value of our investment in Brasiliana. Our renewable energy projects and other initiatives face considerable uncertainties including, development, operational and regulatory challenges. AES Wind Generation, AES Solar, our projects in climate solutions and our investments in projects such as energy storage are subject to substantial risks. Projects of this nature are relatively new, are supported financially by favorable regulatory incentives and have been developed through advancement in technologies which may not be proven, or which are unrelated to our core business. As a result, these projects face considerable risk, including the risk that favorable regulatory regimes expire or are adversely modified. In addition, because these projects depend on technology outside of our expertise in Generation and Utilities, there are risks associated with our ability to develop and manage such projects profitably. Furthermore, at the development or acquisition stage, because of the nascent nature of these industries, our ability to predict actual performance results may be hindered and the projects may not perform as predicted. There are also risks associated with the 69 Table of Contents fact that many of these projects exist in new or emerging markets, where long-term fixed price contracts for the major cost and revenue components may be unavailable, which in turn may result in these projects having relatively high levels of volatility. These projects can be capital-intensive and generally require that we obtain third party financing, which may be difficult to obtain. As a result, these capital constraints may reduce our ability to develop these projects. These risks may be exacerbated by the current global economic crisis, including our management's increased focus on liquidity, which may also result in slower growth in the number of projects we can pursue. The economic downturn could also impact the value of our assets in these countries and our ability to develop these projects. If the value of these assets decline, this could result in a material impairment or a series of impairments which are material in the aggregate, which would adversely affect our financial statements. The global credit crisis could impact our growth plans and the values of our assets. In the second half of 2007, conditions in the credit markets began to deteriorate in the United States and abroad. In the third and fourth quarter of 2008, this crisis and associated market conditions worsened dramatically, with unprecedented market volatility, widening credit spreads, volatile currencies, illiquidity, and increased counterparty credit risk. As a result of the deterioration in the global economy, the Company has placed a greater emphasis on preservation of liquidity. The Company currently intends to complete the projects it has under construction, those that have obtained financing and a select group of projects which may be able to obtain financing in these challenging financial markets. In the event that management determines that, because of macroeconomic challenges or other factors, certain of these or other projects in the pipeline cannot be financed, will not provide the returns originally anticipated, or are otherwise unfeasible, or that other uses of capital such as debt repayment or stock repurchases offer a better return on the Company's capital, or that the funds should be used for working capital, the Company may determine that it will not pursue certain projects in its pipeline, which will affect our growth. In addition, the global recession could impact the value of our assets around the world. For example, in 2008, we impaired certain projects in our pipeline, resulting in a charge to 2008 earnings. Further declines in asset values could result in additional write-downs, which could be material to our financial statements. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is evaluated for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margin growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management's judgment in applying these factors. The fair value of a reporting unit has been determined using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience situations, including but not limited to, disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of our business or sustained market capitalization declines. There could also be impairments if our acquisitions do not perform as expected. See further discussion in Risk Factor, "Our Acquisitions May Not Perform as Expected." These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our financial results in the periods of such charges. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.4 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 4.1% of total assets. If current conditions in the global economy continue or worsen, this could increase the risk that we will have to impair goodwill. 70 Table of Contents Risks associated with Governmental Regulation and Laws Our operations are subject to significant government regulation and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the law or regulatory schemes. Our inability to predict, influence or respond appropriately to changes in law or regulatory schemes, including any inability to obtain expected or contracted increases in electricity tariff rates or tariff adjustments for increased expenses, could adversely impact our results of operations or our ability to meet publicly announced projections or analyst's expectations. Furthermore, changes in laws or regulations or changes in the application or interpretation of regulatory provisions in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly our Utilities where electricity tariffs are subject to regulatory review or approval, could adversely affect our business, including, but not limited to: •changes in the determination, definition or classification of costs to be included as reimbursable or pass-through costs, including but not limited to costs incurred to upgrade our power plants to comply with more stringent environmental regulations; •changes in the determination of what is an appropriate rate of return on invested capital or a determination that a utility's operating income or the rates it charges customers is too high, resulting in a reduction of rates or consumer rebates; •changes in the definition or determination of controllable or non-controllable costs; •changes in the definition of events which may or may not qualify as changes in economic equilibrium; •changes in the timing of tariff increases; or •other changes in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions. Any of the above events may result in lower margins for the affected businesses, which can adversely affect our business. For example, as noted in Item 1—Business—Regulatory Matters—Hungary of this Form 10-K, in June 2008 the European Commission ("the Commission") reached its decision that the PPAs, including AES Tisza's PPA, contain elements of illegal state aid. The decision requires Hungary to terminate the PPAs within six months of the June 2008 publication of the decision, and to recover the alleged illegal state aid from the generators within ten months of publication. Hungary and the Commission are in the process of resolving confidentiality matters relating to the wording of the decision, which has not yet been notified by the Commission to the generators. AES Tisza is challenging the Commission's decision in the Court of First Instance of the European Communities. Referring to the Commission's decision, Hungary adopted act number LXX of 2008 which terminates all long-term PPAs in Hungary, including AES Tisza's PPA, as of December 31, 2008, and requires generators to repay the alleged illegal state aid that was allegedly received by the generators through the PPAs, and provides for the possibility to offset stranded costs of the generators from the repayable state aid. It is possible that the Company may face additional regulatory actions of this type and, depending on the outcome, such actions could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In addition, in many countries where we conduct business, the regulatory environment is constantly changing or the regulations can be difficult to interpret. As a result, there is risk that we may not properly interpret certain regulations and may not understand the impact of certain regulations on our business. For example, in October 2006, ANEEL, which regulates our utility operations at Sul and Eletropaulo in Brazil, issued Normative Resolution 234 requiring that utilities begin amortizing a liability called "Special Obligations" beginning with their second tariff reset cycle in 2007 or a later year as an offset to depreciation expense. As of May 23, 2007, the date of the filing of our 2006 Form 10-K, no industry positions or any other consensus had been reached regarding how ANEEL guidance should be applied at that date and accordingly, no adjustments to the financial statements were made relating to Special Obligations in Brazil. Subsequent to May 23, 2007, industry discussions 71 Table of Contents occurred and other Brazilian companies filed Forms 20-F with the SEC reflecting the impact of Resolution 234 in their December 31, 2006 financial statements differently from how the Company accounted for Resolution 234. In the absence of any significant regulatory developments between May 23, 2007 and the date of these other filings, the Company determined that Resolution 234 required us to record an adjustment to our Special Obligations liability as of December 31, 2006. In part, the decision to record the adjustment led to the restatement of our financial statements in the third quarter of 2007. If we face additional challenges interpreting regulations or changes in regulations, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our Generation business in the United States is subject to the provisions of various laws and regulations administered in whole or in part by the FERC, including the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ("PURPA") and the Federal Power Act. The recently enacted EPAct 2005 made a number of changes to these and other laws that may affect our business. Actions by the FERC and by state utility commissions can have a material effect on our operations. EPAct 2005 authorizes the FERC to remove the obligation of electric utilities under Section 210 of PURPA to enter into new contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity from or to QF's if certain market conditions are met. Pursuant to this authority, the FERC has instituted a rebuttable presumption that utilities located within the control areas of the Midwest Transmission System Operator, Inc., PJM ("Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Maryland") Interconnection, L.L.C., ISO New England, Inc., the New York Independent System Operator and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, Inc. are not required to purchase or sell power from or to QFs above a certain size. In addition, the FERC is authorized under the new law to remove the purchase/sale obligations of individual utilities on a case-by-case basis. While the new law does not affect existing contracts, as a result of the changes to PURPA, our QF's may face a more difficult market environment when their current long-term contracts expire. EPAct 2005 repealed PUHCA 1935 and enacted PUHCA 2005 in its place. PUHCA 1935 had the effect of requiring utility holding companies to operate in geographically proximate regions and therefore limited the range of potential combinations and mergers among utilities. By comparison, PUHCA 2005 has no such restrictions and simply provides the FERC and state utility commissions with enhanced access to the books and records of certain utility holding companies. The repeal of PUHCA 1935 removed barriers to mergers and other potential combinations which could result in the creation of large, geographically dispersed utility holding companies. These entities may have enhanced financial strength and therefore an increased ability to compete with us in the U.S. generation market. In accordance with Congressional mandates in the EPAct 1992 and now in EPAct 2005, the FERC has strongly encouraged competition in wholesale electric markets. Increased competition may have the effect of lowering our operating margins. Among other steps, the FERC has encouraged RTOs and ISOs to develop demand response bidding programs as a mechanism for responding to peak electric demand. These programs may reduce the value of our peaking assets which rely on very high prices during a relatively small number of hours to recover their costs. Similarly, the FERC is encouraging the construction of new transmission infrastructure in accordance with provisions of EPAct 2005. Although new transmission lines may increase market opportunities, they may also increase the competition in our existing markets. While the FERC continues to promote competition, some state utility commissions have reversed course and begun to encourage the construction of generation facilities by traditional utilities to be paid for on a cost-of-service basis by retail ratepayers. Such actions have the effect of reducing sale opportunities in the competitive wholesale generating markets in which we operate. Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations. Our activities are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations by many federal, state and local authorities, international treaties and foreign governmental authorities. These laws and 72 Table of Contents regulations generally concern emissions into the air, effluents into the water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal, endangered species and noise regulation, among others. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations or to obtain any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such laws and regulations could result in fines or other sanctions. Environmental laws and regulations affecting power generation and distribution are complex and have tended to become more stringent over time. Congress and other domestic and foreign governmental authorities have either considered or implemented various laws and regulations to restrict or tax certain emissions, particularly those involving air and water emissions. See the various descriptions of these laws and regulations contained in Item 1 Business—Regulatory Matters—Environmental and Land Use Regulations of this Form 10-K. These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on the operation of our power plants. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations. Changes in, or new, environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed our estimates. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers or that our business, financial condition or results of operations would not be materially and adversely affected by such expenditures or any changes in domestic or foreign environmental laws and regulations. Regulators, politicians, non-governmental organizations and other private parties have expressed concern about greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions and are taking actions which, in addition to the potential physical risks associated with climate change, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As discussed in Item 1—Business—Regulatory Matters—Environmental and Land Use Regulations, at the international, federal and various regional and state levels, policies are under development to regulate GHG emissions, thereby effectively putting a cost on such emissions in order to create financial incentives to reduce them. In 2008, the Company's subsidiaries operated businesses which had total approximate CO2 emissions of 83.8 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted). Approximately 41.5 million metric tonnes of the 83.8 million metric tonnes were emitted by businesses located in the United States (both figures ownership adjusted). Federal, state or regional regulation of GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial performance. The actual impact on the Company's financial performance and the financial performance of the Company's subsidiaries will depend on a number of factors, including among others, the GHG reductions required under any such legislation or regulations, the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market based compliance options are available, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on the ability of our subsidiaries to recover costs incurred. As a result of these factors, our cost of compliance could be substantial and could have a material impact on our results of operations. Another factor is the success of our climate solutions projects, which may generate credits that will help offset our GHG emissions. However, as set forth in the Risk Factor titled "Our renewable energy projects and other initiatives face considerable uncertainties including development, operational and regulatory challenges," there is no guarantee that the climate solutions projects will be successful. Also, the level of potential benefit is unclear given current uncertainties regarding legislation and/or litigation concerning GHG emissions. 73 Table of Contents In January 2005, based on European Community "Directive 2003/87/EC on Greenhouse Gas Emission Allowance Trading," the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme ("EU ETS") commenced operation as the largest multi-country GHG emission trading scheme in the world. On February 16, 2005, the Kyoto Protocol became effective. The Kyoto Protocol requires the 40 developed countries that have ratified it to substantially reduce their GHG emissions, including CO2. To date, compliance with the Kyoto Protocol and the EU ETS has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol. In the United States, there currently are no federal mandatory GHG emission reduction programs (including CO2) affecting the electric power generation facilities of the Company's subsidiaries. However, there are several proposed GHG legislative initiatives in the United States Congress that would, if enacted, constrain GHG emissions, including CO2, and/or impose costs on us that could be material to our business or results of operations. On April 2, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its decision in a case involving the regulation under the CAA of CO2 emissions from motor vehicles. The Court ruled that CO2 is a pollutant which potentially could be subject to regulation under the CAA and that the U.S. EPA has a duty to determine whether CO2 emissions contribute to climate change or to provide some reasonable explanation why it will not exercise its authority. In response to the Court's decision, on July 11, 2008, the U.S. EPA issued an ANPR to solicit public input on whether CO2 emissions should be regulated from both mobile and stationary sources under the CAA. The U.S. EPA has not yet made any such determination. Since electric power generation facilities, particularly coal-fired facilities, are a significant source of CO2 emissions both in the United States and globally, the Court's decision, coupled with stimulus from the new administration, regulators, members of Congress, states, non-governmental organizations, private parties, the courts and other factors could result in a determination by the U.S. EPA to regulate CO2 emissions from electric power generation facilities. While the majority of current state, regional and federal initiatives regarding CO2 emissions contemplate market-based compliance mechanisms (e.g., cap-and-trade), such a determination by the U.S. EPA could result in CO2 emission limits on stationary sources that do not include market-based compliance mechanisms (e.g., carbon tax, CO2 emission limits, etc.). Any such regulations could increase our costs directly and indirectly and have a material adverse affect on our business and/or results of operations. At the state level, RGGI, a cap-and-trade program covering CO2 emissions from electric power generation facilities in the Northeast, became effective in January 2009, and the WCI, is also developing market-based programs to address GHG emissions in seven western states. In addition, several states, including California, have adopted comprehensive legislation that, when implemented, will require mandatory GHG reductions from several industrial sectors, including the electric power generation industry. See "Business—Regulatory Matters—Environmental and Land Use Regulations" of this Form 10-K for further discussion about the environmental regulations we face. At this time, other than with regard to RGGI (further described below), the Company cannot estimate the costs of compliance with U.S. federal, regional or state CO2 emissions reductions legislation or initiatives, due to the fact that these proposals are in earlier stages of development and any final regulations, if adopted, could vary drastically from current proposals. The RGGI program became effective in January 2009. The first regional auction of RGGI allowances needed to be acquired by power generators to comply with state programs implementing RGGI was held in September 2008 and the second was held in December 2008. The third auction is scheduled for March 2009. Our subsidiaries in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Maryland are subject to RGGI. Of the approximately 41.5 million metric tonnes of CO2 emitted in the United States by our subsidiaries in 2008 (ownership adjusted), approximately 11.8 million metric tonnes were emitted in U.S. states participating in RGGI. We believe that due to the absence of allowance allocations, 74 Table of Contents RGGI as currently contemplated could have an adverse impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. While Co2 emissions from businesses operated by subsidiaries of the Company are calculated globally in metric tonnes, RGGI allowances are denominated in short tons. (1 metric tonne equals 2,200 pounds and 1 short ton equals 2,000 pounds.) For forecasting purposes, the Company has modeled the impact of CO2 compliance for 2009-2011 for its businesses that are subject to RGGI and that may not be able to pass through compliance costs. The model includes a conversion from metric tonnes to short tons as well as the impact of some market recovery by merchant plants and contractual and regulatory provisions. The model also utilizes an allowance price of $3.38 per metric tonne under RGGI. The source of this per allowance price estimate was the clearing price at the December 2008 RGGI allowance auction. The model also assumes, among other things, that RGGI will be structured solely on the public auction of allowances and that certain costs will be recovered by our subsidiaries. Based on these assumptions, the Company estimates that the RGGI compliance costs could be approximately $29.1 million per year from 2009 through 2011, which is the last year of the first RGGI compliance period. Given all of the uncertainties surrounding RGGI, including those discussed in Item 1—Business—Regulatory Matters—Environmental and Land Use Regulations of this Form 10-K and the fact that the assumptions utilized in the model may prove to be incorrect, there is a significant risk that our actual compliance costs under RGGI will differ from estimates by a material amount. If the actual costs are higher, this could have a material impact on our business and financial results. In addition to government regulators, other groups such as politicians, environmentalists and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. For example, certain financial institutions have expressed concern about providing financing for facilities which would emit GHGs, which can affect our ability to obtain capital, or if we can obtain capital, to receive it on commercially viable terms. In addition, rating agencies may decide to downgrade our credit ratings based on the emissions of the businesses operated by our subsidiaries or increased compliance costs which could make financing unattractive. In addition, as disclosed in Item 3—Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K, the New York Attorney General has issued a subpoena to the Company seeking documents and information concerning the Company's analysis and public disclosure of the potential impacts that GHG legislation and climate change from GHG emissions might have on the Company's operations and financial results. Environmental groups and other private plaintiffs have brought and may decide to bring additional private lawsuits against the Company because of its subsidiaries' GHG emissions. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect the Company's business and operations. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at the electric power generation facilities and support facilities of the Company's subsidiaries. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, attributable to climate change, also would be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease the revenues of the Company's subsidiaries. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. Changes in the temperature of lakes and rivers and changes in precipitation that result in drought could adversely affect the operations of the fossil-fuel fired electric power generation facilities of the Company's subsidiaries. Changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions also could affect the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on the electric power generation businesses of the Company's 75 Table of Contents subsidiaries and on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We and our affiliates are subject to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. We and our affiliates are parties to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. See Business—Legal Proceedings below. There can be no assurances that the outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. The SEC is conducting an informal inquiry relating to our restatements. We have been cooperating with an informal inquiry by the SEC Staff concerning our past restatements and related matters, and have been providing information and documents to the SEC Staff on a voluntary basis. Because we are unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry, the SEC Staff may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements and there may be a risk that the inquiry by the SEC could lead to circumstances in which we may have to further restate previously filed financial statements, amend prior filings or take other actions not currently contemplated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 