Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. The words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “seeks,” “expects,” “intends” and similar expressions identify some of our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance or future results and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K could also cause actual results to differ materially. Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. 9 Our revenue will be adversely affected after June 2007 by the loss of revenue derived from the sunset of the legacy blood management products. Over the last few years, we have experienced increased revenue as a result of the migration of our customers from our legacy blood bank products to our HCLL software product. The final sunset date for these legacy products was June 30, 2007. Following fiscal year 2007, we expect systems sales revenue from blood management products to decrease. As a result, we currently expect lower overall revenues and net income in fiscal year 2008 compared to fiscal year 2007. The changing members of our senior management team create special risks for us. On June 26, 2007, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and President and Director, James Burgess, notified the Board of Directors of his resignation effective in September, 2007. On June 29, 2007, the Company’s Board of Directors appointed John Damgaard, Vice President and General Manager of the Company’s Blood Management Division, as Chief Operating Officer of the Company. Our former General Manager of Medication Management, Mr. Kevin Ketzel, announced his departure upon the consolidation of our business units on July 20, 2007. Mr. T. Kelly Mann was named President and Chief Executive Officer on September 4, 2007. Our senior executives (other than Mr. Mann), Messrs. Blay, Damgaard, Weber and Williams, have an average tenure of four years. As the new management team is solidified and new roles in the Company are defined, our short-term and long-term direction may change, and the changes may not improve our future results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the Company will incur additional expense associated with the compensation of its new CEO even though his future productivity is uncertain and there is no guarantee that he will have a positive impact on our revenues, operations or results of operations. If we do not manage the personnel changes associated with our business unit consolidation effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. We have recently made strategic changes that have placed, and will continue to place, pressures on our management, administrative and operational infrastructure as well as on our results of operations. On July 20, 2007, the Company announced the consolidation of its three business units into a single operating unit. In conjunction with this consolidation, the Company closed a small office and reduced its workforce by approximately 10%. These departed employees possessed knowledge of our business, relationships with our customers and other employees and skills that were not replaced. In the consolidated structure, employees who previously worked in separate divisions must work together and new operational roles must be refined, which may cause employees to become dissatisfied and less productive or to terminate their employment with us. The organizational realignment and personnel changes may make it more difficult for us to ensure that we operate efficiently and effectively. In addition, the Company will incur additional expense associated with one-time termination benefits, early contract termination costs and facility consolidation costs. Actual amounts incurred may exceed amounts expected. See Note 14, Subsequent Event, for further information. Our future growth depends in large part on customer acceptance of our MediMAR and MediCOE products. While we believe that each of our medication management products are positioned to succeed in the market place, there is no assurance that customers will accept our MediMAR and MediCOE products and strategy to the extent that we expect. We are now targeting our large WORx software customer base and certain niche markets for the sale of the MediMAR and MediCOE products, and the new products are attracting new potential WORx software customers as well. The sales for the full suite of medication management products require broad acceptance throughout the hospital and reflect changes in workflows that create longer sales cycles for MediCOE and MediMAR products compared to stand-alone WORx sales. While we anticipate the adoption of these products, the sales of MediMAR and MediCOE may instead reflect a lack of market acceptance of our products. In the event that MediMAR and MediCOE are not accepted in the marketplace, our system sales would suffer, our service revenues for these products would be diminished and our investment in developing, as well as marketing, these products could be impaired. 10 Our United Kingdom business is subject to risks that are different from our other businesses. Approximately 27% of the revenues related to our medication management products and services is based on business conducted in the United Kingdom. These foreign operations encounter risks and uncertainties specific to the United Kingdom such as: · government spending, including spending under England’s Connecting for Health Program · regulation of our products, customers and employees · uncertain contract terms and conditions · trade protection regulation · taxation · economic conditions · customer demands and payment practices and · changing competitors. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar. Mediware has not entered into any derivative financial instrument to manage foreign currency risk and is currently not evaluating the future use of any such financial instruments. Our proprietary information could be misappropriated, and we may be subjected to costly third party intellectual property claims. We rely upon a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, license and marketing agreements, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary information, including our software. We have not historically filed patent applications covering our software. As a result, we may not be able to protect against the misappropriation of our intellectual property. Furthermore, we could be subject to claims by third parties, including competitors and creators of open-source code, that we are misappropriating or infringing intellectual property or other proprietary rights of others. These claims, even if not meritorious, could require us to: · spend significant sums in litigation · pay damages · develop non-infringing intellectual property and · acquire costly licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of asserted infringement. We may be unable to develop non-infringing products or services or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to indemnify our customers if they become subject to third-party claims relating to intellectual property that we license or otherwise provide to them, which could be costly. 11 Termination of licenses or modifications of third party software licenses we rely upon could adversely affect our products. We license third-party software products that we incorporate into our own software products. These products may include operating systems, relational database management systems, knowledge/clinical databases and other key systems. The termination by any third-party vendor of our licenses to use these products, or a significant change to a relied upon product, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Changes to the third-party products could also cause: · our software to become inoperable · features and functions to become unavailable or · materially reduced product performance. Although alternate software products may be available, we could incur substantial costs if we are required to adapt our products to alternative third-party software products. Furthermore, adaptation would take time and initial adaptations may be imperfect and/or products may be inoperable or perform poorly as a result. For example, the third party provider of drug information included in our WORx software has announced plans to change the format in which it provides drug information to us. If we are unable to modify our software to address such changes in a manner that is satisfactory to the third party provider or our customers, such failure could cause our WORx solution to be less effective and have an adverse effect on our customer relationships. If we are unable to enhance our relationships with our third party resellers, our ability to market products may be adversely affected. We currently have important relationships with third party resellers of our products. If we are not able to continue or enhance our current relationships or develop new relationships, our future revenues could decrease. Our newest product offerings rely on third-party products. Our newest offerings, the MediREC software product and the BloodSafe suite of products, rely substantially on third-party products. If our relationship with the third-party providers of these products changes or if the third-parties are unable to provide their products to Mediware, our strategy for growth relating to the MediREC and/or BloodSafe products would be negatively impacted. Hospital networks reduce our sales opportunities and may reduce profitability. Many hospitals are consolidating and forming (or becoming part of) integrated healthcare delivery networks. The formation of these networks might reduce the number of discrete prospects we may target on a “Best of Suite” basis and could provide more negotiating leverage to our prospective customers. These events could reduce our sales prices, increase the length of our sales cycle and otherwise could negatively affect our revenue and income. 12 Significant competition may reduce our profit margin. The market for healthcare information systems is extremely competitive. Our competitors include Siemens AG, McKesson Corporation, Eclypsis Corporation, Misys PLC, Global Med Technologies, Inc., SCC Soft Computer, Cerner Corporation and GE Healthcare, each of which offers products that compete with certain of our offerings. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, sales and marketing resources. A number of factors determine success or failure in our markets, including: · functionality of software products · quality of client references and the availability of client reference sites · underlying technical architecture · financial stability of the software provider · ongoing support of the system and · the quality and quantity of the sales organization. Our ability to maintain a positive stance in all of the above areas will affect our ability to compete successfully and maintain our profit margin. Our strategy includes licensing “Best of Suite” products to customers, which requires customer acceptance of our products and strategy. While we believe that each of our “Best of Suite” products is positioned to succeed in the market place, there is no assurance that customers will accept our “Best of Suite” strategy or accept our products to the extent that we expect. If our customers instead select a single-vendor, enterprise-wide system that automates all functions of the hospital, rather than the specific processes targeted by our products, our sales will decrease. Our ability to generate revenue could suffer if we do not continue to update and improve our existing products and services and develop new ones. The pace of change in the markets we serve is rapid, and there are frequent new product and service introductions by our competitors and by vendors whose products and services we use in providing our own products and services. If we do not respond successfully to evolving industry standards, our products and services may become obsolete. We must introduce new healthcare information services and technology solutions and improve the functionality of our existing products and services in a timely manner in order to retain existing customers and attract new ones. However, we may not be successful in responding to technological developments and changing customer needs. Technological changes may also result in the offering of competitive products and services at lower prices than we are charging for our products and services, which could result in lost sales and lower margins. Our business may be adversely affected by changing technology that may render our technology obsolete. Changing technology will make it necessary for some of our software products to migrate to new software platforms in the coming years, which could require significant resources, could impact future plans for such products, and could adversely affect our ability to sell and develop new and competitive software products. In addition, new technology not currently in the mainstream could quickly enter the market and disrupt our existing business and customers’ need for our products. We will try to maintain state-of-the-art products, but new technologies in the marketplace could make our technology obsolete and our products unusable or hinder future sales. 13 We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, and relationships and may not be able to successfully manage our operations if we fail to successfully integrate such acquired businesses and technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As part of our business strategy, we may seek and complete strategic business acquisitions that that are complementary to our business. Acquisitions have inherent risks which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including, but not limited to, the following: · failure to successfully integrate the business and financial operations, services, intellectual property, solutions or personnel of the acquired business · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns · failure to achieve projected synergies and performance targets · loss of clients or key personnel of the acquired business · possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product architecture, product development, intellectual property issues, key personnel issues or legal and financial contingencies, and · write-off of software development costs and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses. Research and development is costly and may not produce successful new products. Our strategy relies on continuing innovation. We currently intend to continue investing in research and development of new products. However, our investment may not produce marketable product enhancements and new products. If a product or group of products is not accepted in the marketplace, that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the cost of developing new healthcare information services and technology solutions is inherently difficult to estimate. Our development and implementation of proposed products and services may take longer than originally expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. If we are unable to develop new or updated products and services on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of our customers, we may lose potential sales and harm our relationships with current or potential customers. Developing new products would be difficult and take longer without the expertise of software engineers and third party consultants to develop our products. Developing new products is a complex and difficult process. We have historically relied on the development expertise of employed software engineers and third party consultants, who have significant product expertise. The departure of certain software engineers or the termination of consultants who are providing Mediware development and product services could materially impact Mediware’s software development processes and product expertise. In addition, because of the complex nature of software or the departure of programming personnel or consultants, we could encounter difficulties or delays in the development and implementation of new products if we lost such expertise. These employees and consultants generally can terminate their relationship with us at any time. 14 Our decision to no longer invest in the growth of the perioperative management products could alienate certain customers. While we believe that focusing our investment in the growth of our two core product lines provides Mediware its best opportunity for long-term growth, our decision to no longer invest in the perioperative management products could alienate certain current customers and have an adverse impact on the Company’s reputation in the market. New and changing government regulation creates compliance challenges. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs and could restrict our operations. Many healthcare laws are complex and their application to specific products and services may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information services and technology solutions that we provide. However, these laws and regulations may nonetheless be applied to our products and services. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, cause us to breach our contracts and result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our businesses. Increasing government regulation may increase costs and reduce profitability. The hospitals that comprise the primary market for our products must comply with various U.S. and U.K. national, state and local statutes and regulations. The decisions and actions of various governmental and regulatory bodies administering these laws may significantly influence operations of hospitals, blood banks and healthcare organizations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our blood management products are regulated as medical devices by the FDA. Blood bank software vendors are also subject to the FDA’s Quality Systems Regulations. Although we try to ensure that our internal quality system complies with federal guidelines, full compliance with existing or any future guidelines, or inspection procedures is unpredictable. We have dedicated substantial time and resources to comply with guidelines and regulations applicable to our blood management products. The FDA enforces compliance by using recalls, seizures, injunctions, civil fines and criminal prosecutions. Unsatisfactory compliance and the inability to timely remedy any non-compliance, resulting in any of the above actions, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the FDA expands its scope of regulation to our medication management or perioperative management products, it would be costly to implement the FDA Quality Systems Regulation procedures. Furthermore, any new blood management products may not be approved by the FDA, which would diminish the value of our research and development for those products and could impair our future financial performance. Recent regulations relating to patient confidentiality may increase costs and reduce profitability. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) mandated significant changes in the regulatory environment governing the security and confidentiality of individually identifiable, protected health information. Most healthcare providers, healthcare clearinghouses and health plans (“Covered Entities”) were not required to comply with the standards adopted by the Department of Health and Human Services to implement HIPAA for security until April 21, 2005 and the standards for privacy until April 14, 2003. Although we are not a Covered Entity, most of our customers are Covered Entities. As Covered Entities, our customers must require their service providers to meet some HIPAA obligations. Accordingly, we have been subjected to some of these requirements. Furthermore, we are subject to contractual requirements arising from HIPAA that increase our liability and risks associated with the handling of individual protected health information. In addition, many states have passed or are evaluating local versions of HIPAA and we may not be able to comply with the terms of such new statutes. Evolving HIPAA-related laws or regulations could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect the demand for our solutions if they are not re-designed in a timely manner in order to meet the requirements of any new regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified healthcare transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, research and development and other resources to modify our solutions and devices to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. 15 Our business is subject to the risk of product-related liabilities. All of our products provide data for use by healthcare providers in patient care settings. Our license agreements generally contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to product-related claims. These provisions, however, may not be enforceable in some jurisdictions or may not adequately limit our exposure. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe to be adequate for our intended purpose. However, insurance may not cover a claim brought against us. A successful claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. System errors may delay product acceptance and adversely affect our operations and profitability. Despite testing, software products as complex as those we offer and use in a wide range of clinical and health information systems settings contain a number of errors or “bugs”, especially early in their product life cycle. Our products are clinical information systems used in patient care settings where a low tolerance for bugs exists. Testing of products is difficult due to the wide range of environments in which the systems are installed. Due to these factors, the discovery of defects or errors could cause: · delays in product delivery · poor client references · payment disputes · contract cancellations · contract disputes, including warranty claims and lawsuits and/or · additional expenses and payments to rectify problems. Any of these factors could delay our product sales or have an adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. Government contracting frequently requires less favorable terms. Mediware is increasing its efforts to license its software to behavioral health, prisons and other state institutions. While we believe these markets present excellent opportunities, contracting with state and other government agencies frequently requires Mediware to accept less favorable contract terms and conditions, including warranties, performance obligations and limitations of liability. 16 Our operating results can fluctuate due to irregular system sales. Our revenue and results of operations can fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. System sales in any fiscal year depend substantially upon our sales performance and customers’ budgeting and buying practices. System sales may fluctuate due to: · contract activity · demand for our products and services · lengthy and complex sales cycles · customers’ internal budgets for new technology systems, customers’ technical resources to deploy technology and · customers’ personnel availability. Additionally, our ability to recognize anticipated revenue may be materially affected by the terms of a final contract. Factors that impact contract terms and revenue include the following: · systems contracts may include both currently deliverable and non-deliverable software products · customer needs for services that include significant modifications, customization or complex interfaces that could delay product delivery or acceptance · customer-specific acceptance criteria and · payment terms that are long-term or depend upon contingencies. The sales for the medication management “Best of Suite” products involve more hospital departments and longer implementation cycles. This exacerbates many of the foregoing risks. Our stock price may be volatile due largely as a result of relatively low trading volume. The trading price of Mediware’s common stock may fluctuate significantly from time to time. Generally, Mediware’s common stock has relatively low trading volume which can cause transactions in a relatively small number of shares to significantly impact the price of the stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 