Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. The words “believes,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “seeks,” “expects,” “intends” and similar expressions identify some of our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance or future results and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K could also cause actual results to differ materially. Set forth below are some of the risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially adversely affect our business or that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other public statements we make. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. Our future growth depends in large part on customer acceptance of our new products. While we believe that each of our new products are positioned to succeed in the marketplace, there is no assurance that customers will accept our new products and strategy to the extent that we expect. Our latest medication management products are MediMAR, MediCOE and MediREC, and our newest blood and biologics management products are BiologiCare, BloodSafe and blood donor center products. We are now targeting our existing software customer base and other potential customers for the sale of the new products, and the new products are attracting new potential customers for our more established software as well. While we anticipate the adoption of these products during fiscal 2009 and beyond, there is no assurance that the marketplace will accept our strategy or these products. In addition, the sales for the full suite of medication management products require broad acceptance throughout the hospital and reflect changes in workflows that create longer sales cycles for MediCOE and MediMAR products compared to stand-alone WORx sales. In the event that our new products are not accepted in the marketplace, our system sales would suffer, our service revenues for these products would be diminished and our investment in developing, as well as marketing, these products could be impaired. Our United Kingdom business is subject to risks that are different from our other businesses. Approximately15% of the total revenues for the year ended June 30, 2008 related to our medication management products and services is based on business conducted in the United Kingdom. These foreign operations encounter risks and uncertainties specific to the United Kingdom such as: · government spending, including spending under England’s Connecting for Health Program or our Additional Supply Capability and Capacity appointment · regulation of our products, customers and employees · uncertain contract terms, conditions and risks · trade protection regulation · taxation · economic conditions · customer demands and payment practices and · changing competitors. 10 Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations that could impact our results of operations and financial condition based on the movements of the applicable foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. Dollar. Mediware has not entered into any derivative financial instrument to manage foreign currency risk and is currently not evaluating the future use of any such financial instruments. Our sales pipeline may not reflect sales that are actually achieved. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our management monitors the status of all sales opportunities, such as the date when they estimate that a client will make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. We compare this pipeline at various points in time to evaluate trends in our business. This analysis provides guidance in business planning and forecasting, but these pipeline estimates are by their nature speculative. Our pipeline estimates are not necessarily reliable predictors of revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, partially because of changes in the pipeline and in conversion rates of the pipeline into contracts that can be very difficult to estimate. A negative variation in the expected conversion rate or timing of the pipeline into contracts, or in the pipeline itself, could cause our plan or forecast to be inaccurate and thereby adversely affect business results. For example, a slowdown in information technology spending, adverse economic conditions or a variety of other factors can cause purchasing decisions to be delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled, which would reduce the overall pipeline conversion rate in a particular period of time. Because a substantial portion of our contracts are completed in the latter part of a quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure quickly enough in response to a revenue shortfall resulting from a decrease in our pipeline conversion rate in any given fiscal quarter. Our proprietary information could be misappropriated, and we may be subjected to costly third party intellectual property claims. We rely upon a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, license and marketing agreements, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary information, including our software. We have not historically filed patent applications covering our software. As a result, we may not be able to protect against the misappropriation of our intellectual property. Furthermore, we could be subject to claims by third parties, including competitors (who hold patents) and creators of open-source code, that we are misappropriating or infringing patents or other intellectual property or proprietary rights of others. These claims, even if not meritorious, could require us to: · spend significant sums in litigation · pay damages · develop non-infringing intellectual property and · acquire costly licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of asserted infringement. We may be unable to develop non-infringing products or services or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be required to indemnify our customers if they become subject to third-party claims relating to intellectual property that we license or otherwise provide to them, which could be costly. Termination of or modifications to third party products and technology incorporated into our product offerings could adversely affect our products or decrease our profitability. We license or purchase intellectual property and technology such as software, hardware and content from third parties, including some competitors, and incorporate software, hardware, and/or content into or sell it in conjunction with our solutions, devices and services. Some third party material is critical to the operation and delivery of our products and services. For example, the MediREC software product and the BloodSafe suite of products rely substantially on third-party products. If any of the third party suppliers were to change product offerings, significantly increase prices or terminate our licenses or supply contracts, we might need to seek alternative suppliers and incur additional internal or external development costs to ensure continued performance of our solutions, devices and services. Such alternatives may not be available on attractive terms, or may not be as widely accepted or as effective as the intellectual property or technology provided by our existing suppliers. Furthermore, adaptation would take time and initial adaptations may be imperfect and/or products may be inoperable or perform poorly as a result. If the cost of licensing, purchasing or maintaining the third party intellectual property or technology significantly increases, our gross margin levels could significantly decrease. In addition, interruption in functionality of our solutions, devices and services as a result of changes in third party suppliers could adversely affect future sales or result in contract claims that could require Mediware to pay damages. 11 We may experience interruption at our data centers or client support facilities. We have begun to offer our customers hosting services for some of our software offerings. Our hosting services may include the storage of critical patient and administrative data. In addition, we provide support services to our clients through various client support facilities. Failure of generators, impairment of telecommunications lines, or any damage to the buildings, the equipment inside the buildings housing our hosting centers, the client data contained therein or the personnel trained to operate such facilities could disrupt our operations and negatively impact customers who depend on us for data center and system support services. Any interruption in operations at our data centers or client support facilities could damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients, hurt our ability to obtain new clients, result in revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operating costs. If we are unable to enhance our relationships with our third party resellers, our ability to market products may be adversely affected. We currently have important relationships with third party resellers of our products. If we are not able to continue or enhance our current relationships or develop new relationships, our future revenues could decrease. Hospital networks reduce our sales opportunities and may reduce profitability. Many hospitals are consolidating and forming (or becoming part of) integrated healthcare delivery networks. The formation of these networks might reduce the number of discrete prospects we may target on a closed loop basis and could provide more negotiating leverage to our prospective customers. These events could reduce our sales prices, increase the length of our sales cycle and otherwise could negatively affect our revenue and income. Significant competition may reduce our profit margin. The market for healthcare information systems is extremely competitive. Our competitors include Siemens AG, McKesson Corporation, Eclypsis Corporation, Misys PLC, Global Med Technologies, Inc., SCC Soft Computer, Cerner Corporation and GE Healthcare, each of which offers products that compete with certain of our offerings. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, sales and marketing resources. A number of factors determine success or failure in our markets, including: · functionality of software products · quality of client references and the availability of client reference sites · underlying technical architecture · financial stability of the software provider · ongoing support of the system and · the quality and quantity of the sales organization. Our ability to maintain a positive stance in all of the above areas will affect our ability to compete successfully and maintain our profit margin. 12 Our strategy includes licensing closed loop products to customers, which requires customer acceptance of our products and strategy. While we believe that each of our closed loop products is positioned to succeed in the market place, there is no assurance that customers will accept our closed loop strategy or accept our products to the extent that we expect. If our customers instead select a single-vendor, enterprise-wide system that automates all functions of the hospital, rather than the specific processes targeted by our products, our sales will decrease. Our ability to generate revenue could suffer if we do not continue to update and improve our existing products and services and develop new ones. The pace of change in the markets we serve is rapid, and there are frequent new product and service introductions by our competitors and by vendors whose products and services we use in providing our own products and services. If we do not respond successfully to evolving industry standards, our products and services may become obsolete. We must introduce new healthcare information services and technology solutions and improve the functionality of our existing products and services in a timely manner in order to retain existing customers and attract new ones. However, we may not be successful in responding to technological developments and changing customer needs. Technological changes may also result in the offering of competitive products and services at lower prices than we are charging for our products and services, which could result in lost sales and lower margins. Our business may be adversely affected by changing technology that may render our technology obsolete. Changing technology will make it necessary for some of our software products to migrate to new software platforms in the coming years, which could require significant resources, could impact future plans for such products, and could adversely affect our ability to sell and develop new and competitive software products. In addition, new technology not currently in the mainstream could quickly enter the market and disrupt our existing business and customers’ need for our products. We will try to maintain state-of-the-art products, but new technologies in the marketplace could make our technology obsolete and our products unusable or hinder future sales. We consummated a strategic acquisition in fiscal 2008 and may pursue additional strategic acquisitions, investments, and relationships in the future, and we may not be able to successfully manage our operations if we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As part of our business strategy, we may seek and complete strategic business acquisitions that are complementary to our business. On October 31, 2007, we acquired substantially all of the business and assets and assumed certain liabilities of IMS, a company that provides software products and services targeting blood and plasma donation centers in North America and Europe. Acquisitions, such as our acquisition of the business of IMS, have inherent risks which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including, but not limited to, the following: · failure to successfully integrate the business and financial operations, services, intellectual property, solutions or personnel of the acquired business · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns · failure to achieve projected synergies and performance targets · loss of customers or key personnel of the acquired business 13 · possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product architecture, product development, intellectual property issues, key personnel issues or legal and financial contingencies, and · a possible write-off of software development costs and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets. In the case of IMS, we have acquired a business with offices in cities where we previously had no offices and with products that rely upon technology which is different than and may not be compatible with the technology of our other products. If we fail to successfully integrate IMS or other acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses. Research and development is costly and may not produce successful new products. Our strategy relies on continuing innovation. We currently intend to continue investing in research and development of new products. However, our investment may not produce marketable product enhancements and new products. If a product or group of products is not accepted in the marketplace that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the cost of developing new healthcare information services and technology solutions is inherently difficult to estimate. Our development and implementation of proposed products and services may take longer than originally expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. If we are unable to develop new or updated products and services on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of our customers, we may lose potential sales and harm our relationships with current or potential customers. Developing new products would be difficult and take longer without the expertise of software engineers and third party consultants to develop our products. Developing new products is a complex and difficult process. We have historically relied on the development expertise of employed software engineers and third party consultants, who have significant product expertise. The departure of certain software engineers or the termination of consultants who are providing Mediware development and product services could materially impact Mediware’s software development processes and product expertise. In addition, because of the complex nature of software or the departure of programming personnel or consultants, we could encounter difficulties or delays in the development and implementation of new products if we lost such expertise. These employees and consultants generally can terminate their relationship with us at any time. New and changing government regulation creates compliance challenges and may increase our costs. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is subject to changing political, legislative, regulatory and other influences. Existing and new laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could create unexpected liabilities for us, cause us to incur additional costs and could restrict our operations. Certain of our products are currently subject to regulation, including those relating to blood products, electronic prescriptions and electronic communication. These laws and regulations may be applied to our products and services in a manner that we do not anticipate. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, cause us to breach our contracts and result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our businesses. 14 Many healthcare laws, including those related to reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs, are complex and their application to specific products and services may not be clear. In particular, many existing healthcare laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate the healthcare information services and technology solutions that we provide. However, these laws and regulations may nonetheless be applied to our products and services. For example, increased regulation by the Food Drug Administration may subject more of our products to the FDA’s Quality Systems Regulations, or our products could be deemed to be part of Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement requests. Our failure to accurately anticipate the application of these laws and regulations, or other failure to comply, could create liability for us, cause us to breach our contracts and result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our businesses. In addition our customers must comply with various U.S. and U.K. national, state and local statutes and regulations. The decisions and actions of various governmental and regulatory bodies administering these laws may significantly influence operations of hospitals, blood banks and healthcare organizations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is subject to the risk of product-related liabilities. Our products provide data for use by healthcare providers in patient care settings. Our license agreements generally contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to product-related claims. These provisions, however, may not be enforceable in some jurisdictions or may not adequately limit our exposure. We maintain product liability insurance in an amount that we believe to be adequate for our intended purpose. However, insurance may not cover a claim brought against us. A successful claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. System errors may delay product acceptance and adversely affect our operations and profitability. Despite testing, software products as complex as those we offer and use in a wide range of clinical and health information systems settings contain a number of errors or “bugs,” especially early in their product life cycle. Our products are clinical information systems used in patient care settings where a low tolerance for bugs exists. Testing of products is difficult due to the wide range of environments in which the systems are installed. Due to these factors, the discovery of defects or errors could cause: · delays in product delivery · poor client references · payment disputes · contract cancellations and/or · additional expenses and payments to rectify problems. Any of these factors could delay our product sales or have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our client agreements typically provide warranties concerning material errors and other matters. Failure of our software to meet these warranties could constitute a material breach under our customer agreements, allowing in many cases the customer to terminate the agreement and possibly obtain a refund and/or damages, or might require us to incur additional expense in order to make the software solution or healthcare device meet these criteria. Our client agreements generally limit our liability arising from such claims but such limits may not be enforceable in certain jurisdictions or circumstances. A successful material claim brought against us, if uninsured or under-insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Government contracting frequently requires less favorable terms. Mediware is increasing its efforts to license its software to behavioral health and other state institutions. While we believe these markets present opportunities, contracting with state and other government agencies frequently requires Mediware to accept less favorable contract terms and conditions, including warranties, performance obligations and limitations of liability. Our operating results can fluctuate due to irregular system sales. Our revenue and results of operations can fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter. System sales in any fiscal year depend substantially upon our sales performance and customers’ budgeting and buying practices. System sales may fluctuate due to: · contract activity · demand for our products and services · lengthy and complex sales cycles · customers’ internal budgets for new technology systems, customers’ technical resources to deploy technology and · customers’ personnel availability. Additionally, our ability to recognize anticipated revenue may be materially affected by the terms of a final contract. Factors that impact contract terms and revenue include the following: · systems contracts may include both currently deliverable and non-deliverable software products · customer needs for services that include significant modifications, customization or complex interfaces that could delay product delivery or acceptance · customer-specific acceptance criteria and · payment terms that are long-term or depend upon contingencies. The sales for the medication management closed loop products involve more hospital departments and longer implementation cycles. This exacerbates many of the foregoing risks. Our stock price may be volatile due largely as a result of relatively low trading volume. The trading price of Mediware’s common stock may fluctuate significantly from time to time. Generally, Mediware’s common stock has relatively low trading volume which can cause transactions in a relatively small number of shares to significantly impact the price of the stock. Impact of Government Regulation and Private Oversight The healthcare industry is highly regulated. The industry is subject to state and federal laws and regulations and to oversight by regulatory entities. It is also subject to oversight by peer entities. While some of Mediware’s products are subject to government regulation and private oversight, the effect on Mediware’s customers is even more pronounced. Knowledge of applicable regulation and oversight is therefore critical to Mediware’s business not only because of the compliance required for certain of Mediware’s products but also because it creates opportunities for Mediware to sell products and services to customers to facilitate their compliance. 16 FDA Regulation of Blood Products The Food and Drug Administration regulated blood center computer software products regulated as medical devices. The FDA considers software products intended for the following to be medical devices: (i) use in the manufacture of blood and blood components; or (ii) maintenance of data used to evaluate the suitability of donors and the release of blood or blood components for transfusion or further manufacturing. The FDA requires blood tracking application software vendors to submit a 510(k) application for review. Several of Mediware’s blood management products have obtained 510(k) clearance. As a medical device manufacturer, Mediware is required to register with the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (“CBER”), list its medical devices, and submit a pre-market notification or application for pre-market review. In addition, Mediware is required to follow applicable Quality System Regulations of the FDA, which include testing, control and documentation requirements. The FDA enforces compliance by using recalls, seizures, injunctions, civil fines and criminal prosecutions. Unsatisfactory compliance and the inability to timely remedy any non-compliance could therefore have material adverse consequences. If the FDA expands its scope of regulation to other products, it would be costly to implement the FDA Quality Systems Regulation procedures. Furthermore, any new blood management products may not be approved by the FDA, which would diminish the value of the research and development for those products. Mediware dedicates substantial time and resources to comply with guidelines and regulations applicable to its blood management products. HIPAA The U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) seeks to impose national health data standards on covered entities. The HIPAA standards prescribe, among other things, transaction formats and code sets for electronic health transactions in order to protect individual privacy by limiting the uses and disclosure of individually identifiable health information. HIPAA also requires covered entities to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, availability and security of individually identifiable health information in electronic form. Under HIPAA, a covered entities include (i) healthcare providers that conduct electronic health transactions; (ii) healthcare clearinghouses that convert health data between HIPAA-compliant and non-compliant formats; and (iii) health plans. Although Mediware is not a covered entity, most of its customers are. These customers must require their service providers to meet some HIPAA obligations, and Mediware and its products have therefore been subjected to some of these requirements. In addition, many states have passed or are evaluating local versions of HIPAA. Evolving HIPAA-related laws or regulations could restrict the ability of customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. Mediware believes that software that facilitates HIPAA compliance by covered entities may increase demand for these software products. Accordingly, Mediware expends substantial time and resources to HIPAA compliance when developing software. E-prescription The Department of Health and Human Services/CMS regulations related to “E-Prescribing and the Prescription Drug Program,” which set forth standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions, will be implemented in 2009. The standards are complex and cover transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions and electronic eligibility and benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. These standards apply to some of Mediware’s medication management products. Mediware’s efforts to provide software that assists customers to comply with these regulations could be expensive. If Mediware fails to accurately adjust its software solutions or meet customer needs, there could be a material impact on its business. 17 Medicare/Medicaid Some of Mediware’s medication management products assist customers with the submission of claims to payers. The claims are governed by federal and state laws, including regulations relating to Medicare and Medicaid. Mediware’s solutions are capable of electronically transmitting claims for services and items rendered to certain payers for approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides civil liability to any person that knowingly submits a claim to a payer, including, for example, Medicare, Medicaid and private health plans, seeking payment for any services or items that have not been provided to the patient. Federal law may also impose criminal penalties for the submission of false claims intentionally. Federal and state governments and regulatory authorities continue to increase scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting healthcare providers whose services are reimbursed. Mediware’s customers are further subject to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which restrict remuneration and referrals. While Mediware believes that it is are in compliance with applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to our customers and that could be applicable to it, are not clear or well-defined and have not been interpreted by the courts. They may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could broaden their applicability to vendors or require customers to change their business or how they work with Mediware. Internet privacy Some of our BCT products rely upon electronic mail and are therefore subject to laws and regulations relating to user privacy and information security. In addition, many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data. Any failure of Mediware’s products to comply with these laws may subject Mediware to significant liabilities or proceedings by governmental authorities. In addition, the interpretation of user privacy and information security laws is unclear and in a state of flux. Mediware expects to expend additional time and capital in an effort to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. Further, any failure to protect privacy and data could result in a loss of customer or user confidence. CCHIT The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services initiatives have, among other things, led to the creation of the private-sector Certification Commission for Health Information Technology (“CCHIT”), which consists of 15 commissioners from across the healthcare industry and is the recognized certification body in the United States for health information technology products. CCHIT develops a set of private sector determined criteria for electronic health record functionality, interoperability, reliability and security, and is inspecting electronic health record software to determine its performance against these criteria. Recognition of certain Interoperability Specifications of the Healthcare Information Technology Standards Panel. In January 2008, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services recognized certain Interoperability Specifications of the Healthcare Information Technology Standards Panel, or HITSP, including electronic health record laboratory results reporting, biosurveillance and consumer empowerment. These HITSP specifications are expected to be added to CCHIT criteria in 2008 and 2009, requiring all electronic health record vendors to comply with these standards in order to obtain certification. This will further increase the research and development and administrative investments required to meet the CCHIT criteria. JCAHO The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (“JCAHO”), is an independent non-profit organization that provides voluntary evaluation and accreditation for more than 15,000 healthcare organizations in the United State and has the authority to revoke the accreditation of hospitals that fail to meet JCAHO standards of care. A hospital’s failure to meet JCAHO’s standards could result in the loss of critical Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement revenue. JCAHO’s mandates require hospitals to document all of a patient’s home medication when a patient is admitted to the hospital or enters the emergency room, and to reconcile that list with the medications prescribed in the hospital and repeat this process when the patient is transferred in the hospital and when the patient is discharged. Satisfaction of JCAHO standards is therefore a key to success for Mediware’s medication management products. Accordingly, Mediware expends substantial time and resources to HIPAA compliance when developing software. 18 ISBT The American Association of Blood Banks (AABB) has adopted a global standard for the labeling of blood products collected and used throughout the United States, called ISBT (International Society of Blood Transfusion) 128, to improve the identification and processing of human blood, tissue and organ products across international borders and disparate health care systems. The AABB established May 1, 2008 as the implementation deadline for its accredited blood centers and hospital transfusion services. Mediware’s LifeTrak and Biologics products fully support ISBT 128. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 