Item 1A. Risk Factors.” EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2008, we had approximately 4,700 full-time and part-time employees. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future operating results involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results may differ materially from those discussed in this report. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Our Failure to Successfully Execute Certain Strategies Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Growth and Profitability The companion animal health care industry is very competitive and we anticipate increased competition from both existing competitors and new market entrants. Our ability to maintain or enhance our historical growth rates and our profitability depends on our successful execution of many elements of our strategy, which include: • Developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative new in-house laboratory analyzers such as Catalyst Dx™ and SNAPshot Dx® that drive sales of IDEXX VetLab® instruments, grow our installed base of instruments, and create a recurring revenue stream from consumable products; • Developing and introducing new proprietary rapid assay and other diagnostic tests and services that effectively differentiate our products and services from those of our competitors; • Achieving the benefits of economies of scale in our worldwide reference laboratory business; • Increasing the value to our customers of our companion animal products and services by enhancing the integration of these products; • Growing our market share by strengthening our sales and marketing activities both within the U.S. and in geographies outside of the U.S.; and • Developing and implementing new technology and licensing strategies; and identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions that enhance our existing businesses or create new business or geographic areas for us. 11 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in implementing some or all of these strategies, our rate of growth or profitability may be negatively impacted. A Weak Economy Could Result in Reduced Demand for Our Products and Services A substantial percentage of our sales are made worldwide to the companion animal veterinary market. Demand for our companion animal diagnostic products and services is driven in part by the number of pet visits to veterinary hospitals and practices of veterinarians with respect to diagnostic testing. Economic weakness in our significant markets could cause pet owners to skip or defer visits to veterinary hospitals or could affect their willingness to treat certain pet health conditions, approve certain diagnostic tests, or continue to own a pet. In addition, concerns about the financial resources of pet owners could cause veterinarians to be less likely to recommend certain diagnostic tests. A decline in pet visits to the hospital, in the willingness of pet owners to treat certain health conditions or approve certain tests, in pet ownership, or in the inclination of veterinarians to recommend certain tests could result in a decrease in diagnostic testing, and therefore in our sales of diagnostic products and services. Disruption in Financial and Currency Markets Could Have a Negative Effect on Our Business As widely reported, financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders for our products and services. The inability of pet owners to obtain consumer credit could lead to a decline in pet visits to the veterinarian, which could result in a decrease in diagnostic testing. Likewise, a decrease in diagnostic testing could negatively impact the financial condition of the veterinary practices that are our customers, which may inhibit their ability to pay us amounts owed for products delivered or services provided. In addition, although current economic conditions have not impacted our ability to access credit markets and finance our operations, further deterioration in financial markets could adversely affect our access to capital. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Strengthening of the Rate of Exchange for the U.S. Dollar Has a Negative Effect on Our Business Strengthening of the rate of exchange for the U.S. Dollar against the Euro, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar, the Japanese Yen and the Australian Dollar adversely affects our results, as it reduces the dollar value of sales that are made in those currencies and reduces the margins on products manufactured in the U.S. and exported to international markets. In 2008, approximately 24% of IDEXX sales were a result of exports from the U.S. Our Dependence on a Limited Number of Suppliers Could Limit Our Ability to Sell Certain Products or Reduce Our Profitability We currently purchase many products and materials from single sources or a limited number of sources. Some of the products that we purchase from these sources are proprietary, and, therefore, cannot be readily or easily replaced by alternative sources. These products include our VetAutoread™ hematology, VetLyte® electrolyte, IDEXX VetLab® UA™ urinalysis, VetTest® chemistry, and Coag Dx™ blood coagulation analyzers and related consumables and accessories; image capture plates used in our digital radiography systems; and certain components and raw materials used in our SNAP® rapid assay devices, water testing products and LaserCyte® hematology analyzers. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of these products in the future, we could face cost increases or reductions, delays or discontinuations in product shipments, which could result in our inability to supply the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our Biologic Products Are Complex and Difficult to Manufacture, Which Could Negatively Affect Our Ability to Supply the Market Many of our rapid assay and production animal diagnostic products are biologics, which are products that are comprised of materials from living organisms, such as antibodies, cells and sera. Manufacturing biologic products is highly complex. Unlike products that rely on chemicals for efficacy (such as most pharmaceuticals), biologics are difficult to characterize due to the inherent variability of biological input materials. Difficulty in characterizing biological materials or their interactions creates greater risk in the manufacturing process. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain adequate sources of biological materials or that biological materials that we maintain in inventory will yield finished products that satisfy applicable product release criteria. Our inability to produce or obtain necessary biological materials or to successfully manufacture biologic products that incorporate such materials could result in our inability to supply the market with these products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Various Government Regulations Could Limit or Delay Our Ability to Market and Sell Our Products In the U.S., the manufacture and sale of our products are regulated by agencies such as the USDA, the FDA and the EPA. Most diagnostic tests for animal health applications, including our canine, feline, poultry and livestock tests, must be approved by the USDA prior to sale in the U.S. Our water testing products must be approved by the EPA before they can be used by customers in the U.S. as a part of a water quality monitoring program required by the EPA. Our dairy testing products require approval by the FDA. The manufacture and sale of our OPTI® line of human point-of-care electrolytes and blood gas analyzers are regulated by the FDA and require approval by the FDA before they may be sold commercially in the U.S. The manufacture and sale of our products are subject to similar laws in many foreign countries. Any failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements relating to the manufacture and sale of our products in the U.S. or in other countries could result in fines and sanctions against us or removals of our products from the market, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals for new products or product upgrades could have a negative impact on our growth and profitability. Our Success Is Heavily Dependent Upon Our Proprietary Technologies We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights. If we do not have adequate protection of our proprietary rights, our business may be affected by competitors who utilize substantially equivalent technologies that compete with us. We cannot ensure that we will obtain issued patents, that any patents issued or licensed to us will remain valid, or that any patents owned or licensed by us will provide protection against competitors with similar technologies. Even if our patents cover products sold by our competitors, the time and expense of litigating to enforce our patent rights could be substantial, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, expiration of patent rights could result in substantial new competition in the markets for products previously covered by those patent rights. In this regard, we expect that revenues and profit margins associated with sales of our SNAP® FIV/FeLV tests are likely to decline following the expiration in June 2009 of a U.S. patent that we exclusively license that broadly covers products that diagnose feline immunodeficiency virus. In the past, we have received notices claiming that our products infringe third-party patents and we may receive such notices in the future. Patent litigation is complex and expensive, and the outcome of patent litigation can be difficult to predict. We cannot ensure that we will win a patent litigation case or negotiate an acceptable resolution of such a case. If we lose, we may be stopped from selling certain products and/or we may be required to pay damages and/or ongoing royalties as a result of the lawsuit. Any such adverse result could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Distributor Purchasing Patterns Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results We sell many of our products, including substantially all of the rapid assays and instrument consumables sold in the U.S., through distributors. Distributor purchasing patterns can be unpredictable and may be influenced by factors unrelated to the end-user demand for our products. In addition, our agreements with distributors may generally be terminated by the distributors for any reason on 60 days notice. Because significant product sales are made to a limited number of distributors, the loss of a distributor or unanticipated changes in the frequency, timing or size of distributor purchases, could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Our financial performance, therefore, is subject to an unexpected downturn in product demand and may be unpredictable. Distributors of veterinary products have entered into business combinations resulting in fewer distribution companies. Consolidation within distribution channels would increase our customer concentration level, which could increase the risks described in the preceding paragraph. Increased Competition and Technological Advances by Our Competitors Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results We face intense competition within the markets in which we sell our products and services. We expect that future competition will become even more intense, and that we will have to compete with changing and improving technologies. Competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, and as a result, we may lose existing customers and market share. Some of our competitors and potential competitors, including large diagnostic companies, have substantially greater financial resources than us, and greater experience in manufacturing, marketing, research and development and obtaining regulatory approvals than we do. Changes in Testing Patterns Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results The market for our companion and production animal diagnostic tests and our dairy and water testing products could be negatively impacted by a number of factors. The introduction or broad market acceptance of vaccines or preventatives for the diseases and conditions for which we sell diagnostic tests and services could result in a decline in testing. Changes in accepted medical protocols regarding the diagnosis of certain diseases and conditions could have a similar effect. Eradication or substantial declines in the prevalence of certain diseases also could lead to a decline in diagnostic testing for such diseases. Our production animal products business in particular is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in disease prevalence. In addition, changes in government regulations could negatively affect sales of our products that are driven by compliance testing, such as our production animal, dairy and water products. Declines in testing for any of the reasons described could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Effective January 1, 2009, testing of water supplies for Cryptosporidium is no longer required by regulation in England or Wales. While our customers in these countries may voluntarily continue to test for Cryptosporidium after that date, we expect that beginning in 2009 we will lose sales of Filta-Max® products in England and Wales to customers who have tested solely based on regulatory requirements. Our sales of Filta-Max® products in England and Wales were $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Effective January 1, 2009, the age at which healthy cattle to be slaughtered are required to be tested for BSE in the European Union was increased from 30 months to 48 months, which has been estimated to reduce the population of cattle tested by approximately 30%. As a result we believe that we are likely to lose a portion of our sales of our post-mortem test for BSE. Consolidation of Veterinary Hospitals Could Negatively Affect Our Business An increasing percentage of veterinary hospitals in the U.S. is owned by corporations that are in the business of acquiring veterinary hospitals and/or opening new veterinary hospitals nationally or regionally. Major corporate hospital owners in the U.S. include VCA Antech, Inc., National Veterinary Associates, and Banfield, The Pet Hospital, each of which is currently a customer of IDEXX. A similar trend exists in the U.K. and may in the future also develop in other countries. Corporate owners of veterinary hospitals could attempt to improve profitability by leveraging the buying power they derive from their scale to obtain favorable pricing from suppliers, which could have a negative impact on our results. In addition, certain corporate owners, most notably VCA Antech, our primary competitor in the U.S. market for reference laboratory services, also operate reference laboratories that serve both their hospitals and unaffiliated hospitals. Any hospitals acquired by these companies are likely to use their laboratory services almost exclusively. In addition, because these companies compete with us in the laboratory services business, hospitals acquired by these companies may cease to be customers or potential customers of our other companion animal products and services, which would cause our sales of these products and services to decline. 14 Table of Contents Our Inexperience in the Human Point-of-Care Market Could Inhibit Our Success in this Market Upon acquiring the Critical Care Division of Osmetech plc in January 2007, we entered the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market for the first time with the sale of the OPTI® line of electrolyte and blood gas analyzers. The human point-of-care medical diagnostics market differs in many respects from the veterinary medical market. Significant differences include the impact of third party reimbursement on diagnostic testing, more extensive regulation, greater product liability risks, larger competitors, a more segmented customer base, and more rapid technological innovation. Our inexperience in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market could negatively affect our ability to successfully manage the risks and features of this market that differ from the veterinary medical market. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving growth and profitability in the human point-of-care medical diagnostics market comparable to the results we have achieved in the veterinary medical market. Risks Associated with Doing Business Internationally Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results For the year ended December 31, 2008, 40% of our revenue was attributable to sales of products and services to customers outside the U.S. Various risks associated with foreign operations may impact our international sales. Possible risks include fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, disruptions in transportation of our products, the differing product and service needs of foreign customers, difficulties in building and managing foreign operations, import/export duties and quotas, and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets. Prices that we charge to foreign customers may be different than the prices we charge for the same products in the U.S. due to competitive, market or other factors. As a result, the mix of domestic and international sales in a particular period could have a material impact on our results for that period. In addition, many of the products for which our selling price may be denominated in foreign currencies are manufactured, sourced, or both, in the U.S. and our costs are incurred in U.S. dollars. We utilize non-speculative forward currency exchange contracts and natural hedges to mitigate foreign currency exposure. However, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which we sell these products would reduce our operating margins. Additionally, a strengthening U.S. dollar could negatively impact the ability of customers outside the U.S. to pay for purchases denominated in U.S. dollars. The Loss of Our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Could Adversely Affect Our Business We rely on the management and leadership of Jonathan W. Ayers, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. We do not maintain key man life insurance coverage for Mr. Ayers. The loss of Mr. Ayers could have a material adverse impact on our business. We Could Be Subject to Class Action Litigation Due to Stock Price Volatility, which, if it Occurs, Could Result in Substantial Costs or Large Judgments Against Us The market for our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance or prospects. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents If Our Quarterly or Annual Results of Operations Fluctuate, This Fluctuation May Cause Our Stock Price to Decline, Resulting in Losses to You Our prior operating results have fluctuated due to a number of factors, including seasonality of certain product lines; changes in our accounting estimates; the impact of acquisitions; timing of distributor purchases, product launches, operating expenditures, litigation and claim-related expenditures; changes in competitors’ product offerings; changes in the economy affecting consumer spending; and other matters. Similarly, our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results or projections of future operating results do not meet the expectations of market analysts or investors in future periods, our stock price may fall. Future Operating Results Could Be Negatively Affected By the Resolution of Various Uncertain Tax Positions and by Potential Changes to Tax Incentives In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. We periodically assess our exposures related to our worldwide provision for income taxes and believe that we have appropriately accrued taxes for contingencies. Any reduction of these contingent liabilities or additional assessment would increase or decrease income, respectively, in the period such determination was made. Our income tax filings are regularly under audit by tax authorities and the final determination of tax audits could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Additionally, we benefit from certain tax incentives offered by various jurisdictions. If we are unable to meet the requirements of such incentives, our inability to use these benefits could have a material negative effect on future earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 