Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risk Factors Past financial performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors in the Company’s common stock should not use historical performance to anticipate results or future period trends. Investing in the Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should consider carefully the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this report and the Company’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before deciding whether to invest or maintain an investment in shares of the Company’s common stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In this case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock would likely decline. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks that the Company currently does not know about or that the Company currently believes to be immaterial also may impair the Company’s business operations. Changes in government regulations could increase the Company’s cost of operations and/or reduce the demand for the Company’s services. Many states, including a number of those in which the Company transacts business, have licensing and other regulatory requirements applicable to the Company’s business. Approximately half of the states have enacted laws that require licensing of businesses which provide medical review services such as the Company. Some of these laws apply to medical review of care covered by workers’ compensation. These laws typically establish minimum standards for qualifications of personnel, confidentiality, internal quality control and dispute resolution procedures. These regulatory programs may result in increased costs of operation for the Company, which may have an adverse impact upon the Company’s ability to compete with other available alternatives for healthcare cost control. In addition, new laws regulating the operation of managed care provider networks have been adopted by a number of states. These laws may apply to managed care provider networks having contracts with the Company or to provider networks which the Company may organize. To the extent the Company is governed by these regulations, it may be subject to additional licensing requirements, financial and operational oversight and procedural standards for beneficiaries and providers. Regulation in the healthcare and workers’ compensation fields is constantly evolving. The Company is unable to predict what additional government initiatives, if any, affecting its business may be promulgated in the future. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by failure to comply with existing laws and regulations, failure to obtain necessary licenses and government approvals or failure to adapt to new or modified regulatory requirements. Proposals for healthcare legislative reforms are regularly considered at the federal and state levels. To the extent that such proposals affect workers’ compensation, such proposals may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in workers’ compensation, auto and managed health care laws or regulations may reduce demand for the Company’s services, require the Company to develop new or modified services to meet the demands of the marketplace or reduce the fees that the Company may charge for its services. One proposal which has been considered by Congress and certain state legislatures is 24-hour health coverage, in which the coverage of traditional employer-sponsored health plans is combined with workers’ compensation coverage to provide a single insurance plan for work-related and non-work-related health problems. Incorporating workers’ compensation coverage into conventional health plans may adversely affect the market for the Company’s services because some employers would purchase 24-hour coverage from group health plans, which would reduce the demand for CorVel’s workers’ compensation customers. The Company’s quarterly sequential revenue may not increase and may decline. As a result, the Company may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts which could cause the Company’s common stock price to decline. The Company’s quarterly sequential revenue growth may not increase and may decline in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of the Company’s control. If changes in the Company’s 16 Table of Contents quarterly sequential revenue fall below the expectations of investors or analysts, the price of the Company’s common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations or declines in quarterly sequential revenue growth may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: the decline in manufacturing employment, the decline in workers’ compensation claims, the decline in healthcare expenditures, the considerable price competition in a flat-to-declining workers’ compensation market, the increase in competition, and the changes and the potential changes in state workers’ compensation and automobile managed care laws which can reduce demand for the Company’s services. These factors create an environment where revenue and margin growth is more difficult to attain and where revenue growth is less certain than historically experienced. Additionally, the Company’s technology and preferred provider network face competition from companies that have more resources available to them than the Company does. Also, some customers may handle their managed care services in-house and may reduce the amount of services which are outsourced to managed care companies such as CorVel. These factors could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate substantially. There can be no assurance that the Company’s growth rate in the future, if any will be at or near historical levels. In addition, the stock market has in the past experienced price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected companies in the healthcare and managed care markets resulting in changes in the market price of the stock of many companies, which may not have been directly related to the operating performance of those companies. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, investors should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of the Company’s results of operations as an indication of its future performance. Exposure to possible litigation and legal liability may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company, through its utilization management services, makes recommendations concerning the appropriateness of providers’ medical treatment plans of patients throughout the country, and as a result, could be exposed to claims for adverse medical consequences. The Company does not grant or deny claims for payment of benefits and the Company does not believe that it engages in the practice of medicine or the delivery of medical services. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will not be subject to claims or litigation related to the authorization or denial of claims for payment of benefits or allegations that the Company engages in the practice of medicine or the delivery of medical services. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will not be subject to other litigation that may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations, including but not limited to being joined in litigation brought against the Company’s customers in the managed care industry. The Company maintains professional liability insurance and such other coverages as the Company believes are reasonable in light of the Company’s experience to date. If such insurance is insufficient or unavailable in the future at reasonable cost to protect the Company from liability, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s failure to compete successfully could make it difficult for the Company to add and retain customers and could reduce or impede the growth of the Company’s business. The Company faces competition from PPOs, TPAs and other managed healthcare companies. The Company believes that as managed care techniques continue to gain acceptance in the workers’ compensation marketplace, CorVel’s competitors will increasingly consist of nationally-focused workers’ compensation managed care service companies, insurance companies, HMOs and other significant providers of managed care products. Legislative reforms in some states permit employers to designate health plans such as HMOs and PPOs to cover workers’ compensation claimants. Because many health plans have the ability to manage medical costs for workers’ compensation claimants, such legislation may intensify competition in the markets served by the Company. Many of the Company’s current and potential competitors are significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than those of the Company, and there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to maintain its existing clients, its past level of operating performance or be successful with any new products or in any new geographical markets it may enter. 17 Table of Contents A change in workers’ compensation market may harm the Company’s results of operations. Within the past few years, several states have experienced a decline in the number of workers’ compensation claims and the average cost per claim which have been reflected in workers’ compensation insurance premium rate reductions in those states. The Company believes that declines in workers’ compensation costs in these states are due principally to intensified efforts by payors to manage and control claim costs, and to a lesser extent, to improved risk management by employers and to legislative reforms. If declines in workers’ compensation costs occur in many states and persist over the long-term, it would have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company provides an outsource service to payors of workers’ compensation and auto healthcare benefits. These payors include insurance companies, TPAs, municipalities, state funds, and self-insured, self- administered employers. If these payors reduce the amount of work they outsource, the Company’s results of operations would be adversely affected. If the average annual growth in nationwide employment does not offset declines in the frequency of workplace injuries and illnesses, then the size of our market may decline, which may adversely affect our ability to grow. The rate of injuries that occur in the workplace has decreased over time. Although the overall number of people employed in the workplace has generally increased over time, this increase has only partially offset the declining rate of injuries and illnesses. Our business model is based, in part, on our ability to expand our relative share of the market for the treatment and review of claims for workplace injuries and illnesses. If nationwide employment does not increase or experiences periods of decline, or if workplace injuries and illnesses continue to decline at a greater rate than the increase in total employment, our ability to increase our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. If the utilization by healthcare payors of early intervention services continues to increase, the revenue from our later stage network and healthcare management services could be negatively affected. The performance of early intervention services, including injury occupational healthcare, first notice of loss, and telephonic case management services, often result in a decrease in the average length of, and the total costs associated with, a healthcare claim. By successfully intervening at an early stage in a claim, the need for additional cost containment services for that claim often can be reduced or even eliminated. As healthcare payors continue to increase their utilization of early intervention services, the revenue from our later stage network and healthcare management services will decrease. The Company faces competition for staffing, which may increase its labor costs and reduce profitability. The Company competes with other health-care providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of its business, including nurses and other case management professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to health-care providers. This shortage may require the Company to enhance wages to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other health-care professionals. The failure of the Company to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other health-care professionals, or to control labor costs could have a material adverse effect on profitability. The failure to attract and retain qualified or key personnel may prevent the Company from effectively developing, marketing, selling, integrating and supporting its services. The Company is dependent to a substantial extent upon the continuing efforts and abilities of certain key management personnel. In addition, the Company faces competition for experienced employees with professional expertise in the workers’ compensation managed care area. The loss of key employees, especially V. Gordon 18 Table of Contents Clemons, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Dan Starck, President, or the inability to attract, qualified employees, could have a material unfavorable effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. If the Company fails to increase revenue, it may be unable to execute its business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. The Company’s strategy is to continue its internal growth and, as strategic opportunities arise in the workers’ compensation managed care industry, to consider acquisitions of, or relationships with, other companies in related lines of business. As a result, the Company is subject to certain growth-related risks, including the risk that it will be unable to retain personnel or acquire other resources necessary to service such growth adequately. Expenses arising from the Company’s efforts to increase its market penetration may have a negative impact on operating results. In addition, there can be no assurance that any suitable opportunities for strategic acquisitions or relationships will arise or, if they do arise, that the transactions contemplated could be completed. If such a transaction does occur, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to integrate effectively any acquired business into the Company. In addition, any such transaction would be subject to various risks associated with the acquisition of businesses, including, but not limited to, the following: • an acquisition may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations because it may require incurring large one-time charges, substantial debt or liabilities; it may require the amortization or write down of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets; or it may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • the Company may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, services, personnel or operations of companies that are acquired, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for the Company; • an acquisition may disrupt ongoing business, divert resources, increase expenses and distract management; • the acquired businesses, products, services or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs; • the Company may have to issue equity or debt securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock; and • acquisitions may involve the entry into a geographic or business market in which the Company has little or no prior experience. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions or other strategic relationships on favorable terms, or at all, or that any future acquisition or other strategic relationship will not have an adverse impact on the Company’s business or results of operations. If suitable opportunities arise, the Company may finance such transactions, as well as its internal growth, through debt or equity financing. There can be no assurance, however, that such debt or equity financing would be available to the Company on acceptable terms when, and if, suitable strategic opportunities arise. Our Internet-based services are dependent on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. We deploy our CareMC and, to a lesser extent, MedCheck services over the Internet. Our ability to deliver our Internet-based services is dependent on the development and maintenance of the infrastructure of the Internet by third parties. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, such as high-speed modems, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and the amount of traffic. If the Internet continues to experience increased usage, the Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it. In addition, the performance of the Internet may be harmed by increased usage. 19 Table of Contents The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damages to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage, as well as the availability of the Internet to us for delivery of our Internet-based services. In addition, our customers who use our Web-based services depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other Web site operators for access to our Web site. All of these providers have experienced significant outages in the past and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties in the future due to system failures unrelated to our systems. Any significant interruptions in our services or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users, and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the attractiveness of our services. Demand for our services could be adversely affected if our prospective customers are unable to implement the transaction and security standards required under HIPAA. For some of our network services, we routinely implement electronic data interfaces (“EDIs”) to our customers’ locations that enable the exchange of information on a computerized basis. To the extent that our customers do not have sufficient personnel to implement the transactions and security standards required by HIPAA or to work with our information technology personnel in the implementation of our electronic interfaces, the demand for our network services could decline. An interruption in the Company’s ability to access critical data may cause customers to cancel their service and/or may reduce the Company’s ability to effectively compete. Certain aspects of the Company’s business are dependent upon its ability to store, retrieve, process and manage data and to maintain and upgrade its data processing capabilities. Interruption of data processing capabilities for any extended length of time, loss of stored data, programming errors or other system failures could cause customers to cancel their service and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, the Company expects that a considerable amount of its future growth will depend on its ability to process and manage claims data more efficiently and to provide more meaningful healthcare information to customers and payors of healthcare. There can be no assurance that the Company’s current data processing capabilities will be adequate for its future growth, that it will be able to efficiently upgrade its systems to meet future demands, or that the Company will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire software to address these market demands as well or as timely as its competitors. The introduction of software products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render the Company’s existing software products less competitive, obsolete or unmarketable. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in developing and marketing new software products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. If the Company is unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new software products cost-effectively, in a timely manner and in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Developing or implementing new or updated software products and services may take longer and cost more than expected. The Company relies on a combination of internal development, strategic relationships, licensing and acquisitions to develop its software products and services. The cost of developing new healthcare information services and technology solutions is inherently difficult to estimate. The Company’s development and implementation of proposed software products and services may take longer than originally expected, require more testing than originally anticipated and require the acquisition of additional personnel and other resources. If the Company is unable to develop new or updated software products and services cost-effectively on a timely basis and implement them without significant disruptions to the existing systems and processes of the Company’s customers, the Company may lose potential sales and harm its relationships with current or potential customers. 20 Table of Contents A breach of security may cause the Company’s customers to curtail or stop using the Company’s services. The Company relies largely on its own security systems, confidentiality procedures and employee nondisclosure agreements to maintain the privacy and security of its and its customers proprietary information. Accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access by third parties to the Company’s information systems, the existence of computer viruses in the Company’s data or software and misappropriation of the Company’s proprietary information could expose the Company to a risk of information loss, litigation and other possible liabilities which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in the Company’s software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any customer data, the Company’s relationships with its customers and its reputation will be damaged, the Company’s business may suffer and the Company could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, the Company may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, which requires that stock-based compensation be accounted for at fair value and expensed over the service period for financial reporting purposes, is effective for the Company starting in the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2006. Such stock option expensing would require the Company to value its employee stock option grants at fair value, and then amortize the estimated cost against the Company’s reported earnings over the vesting period in effect for those options. The Company currently accounts for stock-based awards to employees using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and has adopted the disclosure-only alternative of SFAS 123. This change in accounting treatment will materially and adversely affect the Company’s reported results of operations as the stock-based compensation expense will be charged directly against the Company’s reported earnings. If we are unable to increase our market share among national and regional insurance carriers and large, self-funded employers, our results may be adversely affected. Our business strategy and future success depend in part on our ability to capture market share with our cost containment services as national and regional insurance carriers and large, self-funded employers look for ways to achieve cost savings. We cannot assure you that we will successfully market our services to these insurance carriers and employers or that they will not resort to other means to achieve cost savings. Additionally, our ability to capture additional market share may be adversely affected by the decision of potential customers to perform services internally instead of outsourcing the provision of such services to us. Furthermore, we may not be able to demonstrate sufficient cost savings to potential or current customers to induce them not to provide comparable services internally or to accelerate efforts to provide such services internally. If we lose several customers in a short period, our results may be adversely affected. Our results may decline if we lose several customers during a short period. Most of our customer contracts permit either party to terminate without cause. If several customers terminate, or do not renew or extend their contracts with us, our results could be adversely affected. Many organizations in the insurance industry have consolidated and this could result in the loss of one or more of our significant customers through a merger or acquisition. Additionally, we could lose significant customers due to competitive pricing pressures or other reasons. We are subject to risks associated with acquisitions of intangible assets. Our acquisition of other businesses may result in significant increases in our intangible assets relating to goodwill. We regularly evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred indicating that any portion of our goodwill may not be recoverable. When factors indicate that goodwill should be evaluated for possible impairment, 21 Table of Contents we may be required to reduce the carrying value of these assets. We cannot currently estimate the timing and amount of any such charges. If we are unable to leverage our information systems to enhance our outcome-driven service model, our results may be adversely affected. To leverage our knowledge of workplace injuries, treatment protocols, outcomes data, and complex regulatory provisions related to the workers’ compensation market, we must continue to implement and enhance information systems that can analyze our data related to the workers’ compensation industry. We frequently upgrade existing operating systems and are updating other information systems that we rely upon in our operating segments. We have detailed implementation schedules for these projects that require extensive involvement from our operational, technological and financial personnel. Delays or other problems we might encounter in implementing these projects could adversely affect our ability to deliver streamlined patient care and outcome reporting to our customers. If competition increases, our growth and profits may decline. The markets for our Network Services and Care Management Services segments are also fragmented and competitive. Our competitors include national managed care providers, preferred provider networks, smaller independent providers and insurance companies. Companies that offer one or more workers’ compensation managed care services on a national basis are our primary competitors. We also compete with many smaller vendors who generally provide unbundled services on a local level, particularly companies with an established relationship with a local insurance company adjuster. In addition, several large workers’ compensation insurance carriers offer managed care services for their customers, either by performance of the services in-house or by outsourcing to organizations like ours. If these carriers increase their performance of these services in-house, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, consolidation in the industry may result in carriers performing more of such services in-house. If lawsuits against us are successful, we may incur significant liabilities. We provide to insurers and other payors of health care costs managed care programs that utilize preferred provider organizations and computerized bill review programs. Health care providers have brought against the Company and its clients individual and class action lawsuits challenging such programs. If such lawsuits are successful, we may incur significant liabilities. We make recommendations about the appropriateness of providers’ proposed medical treatment plans for patients throughout the country. As a result, we could be subject to claims arising from any adverse medical consequences. Although plaintiffs have not to date subjected us to any claims or litigation relating to the grant or denial of claims for payment of benefits or allegations that we engage in the practice of medicine or the delivery of medical services, we cannot assure you that plaintiffs will not make such claims in future litigation. We also cannot assure you that our insurance will provide sufficient coverage or that insurance companies will make insurance available at a reasonable cost to protect us from significant future liability. The increased costs of professional and general liability insurance may have an adverse effect on our profitability. The cost of commercial professional and general liability insurance coverage has risen significantly in the past several years, and this trend may continue. In addition, if we were to suffer a material loss, our costs may increase over and above the general increases in the industry. If the costs associated with insuring our business continue to increase, it may adversely affect our business. We believe our current level of insurance coverage is adequate for a company of our size engaged in our business We have experienced a decline in the referrals for our patient management services. We have experienced a general decline in the revenue and operating performance of patient management services. We believe that the performance decline has been due to the following factors: the lingering effects of the downturn in the national economy and its corresponding effect on the number of workplace injuries that have 22 Table of Contents become longer-term disability cases; increased regional and local competition from providers of managed care services; a possible reduction by insurers on the types of services provided by our patient management business; the closure of offices and continuing consolidation of our patient management operations; and employee turnover, including management personnel, in our patient management business. In the past, these factors have all contributed to the lowering of our long-term outlook for our patient management services. If some or all of these conditions continue, we believe that the performance of our patient management revenues could decrease. Healthcare providers are becoming increasingly resistant to the application of certain healthcare cost containment techniques; this may cause revenue from our cost containment operations to decrease. Healthcare providers have become more active in their efforts to minimize the use of certain cost containment techniques and are engaging in litigation to avoid application of certain cost containment practices. Recent litigation between healthcare providers and insurers has challenged certain insurers’ claims adjudication and reimbursement decisions. Although these lawsuits do not directly involve us or any services we provide, these cases may affect the use by insurers of certain cost containment services that we provide and may result in a decrease in revenue from our cost containment business. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and delays in completing our internal controls and financial audits, could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our fiscal 2006 audit revealed material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting related to the size of our accounting staff, lack of an effective control monitoring process and inadequate anti-fraud controls. We are attempting to cure these material weaknesses by taking the steps described in Item 9A of this report, but we have not yet completed such remediation and there can be no assurance that such remediation will be successful. During the course of our continued testing, we also may identify other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, in addition to the ones already identified, which we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner or at all. If we continue to fail to achieve and maintain effective internal controls, we will not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, since 2005, we have experienced delays in completing our internal controls and financial audits, which have resulted in the untimely filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 and the filing of several notifications of late filing on Form 12b-25. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment, and delays in completing our internal controls and financial audits, could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and our company, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock, and cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations in the future, which in turn could impact our ability to raise equity financing if needed in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 