ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and we intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. We are hereby providing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2007 7 Table of Contents our actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained herein. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, future events or performance (often, but not always identifiable by the use of words or phrases such as “will result,” “expects to,” “will continue,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “intends,” “estimated,” “projects” and “outlook”) are not historical facts and may be forward-looking and, accordingly, such statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, the following categories of expectations about: • forecasts of future store openings, expansion/relocations, refreshes and closures • estimates of remaining lease termination charges associated with the closure of demo and One Thousand Steps stores • the sufficiency of working capital and operating cash flows to meet our operating and capital expenditure requirements without borrowing significantly under our credit facility • the outcome of litigation matters • expectations regarding future increases in CAM expenses • expectations regarding our future operating and other financial results • capital expenditure plans All forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after such statements are made. Our comparable store net sales results will fluctuate significantly, which can cause volatility in our operating performance and stock price. Our comparable store net sales results have fluctuated significantly on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis, and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, over the past five years, monthly comparable store net sales results for our PacSun and PacSun Outlet stores have varied from a low of minus 16% to a high of plus 18%. A variety of factors affect our comparable store net sales results, including changes in fashion trends and customer preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, weather conditions and general economic conditions. Our comparable store net sales results for any particular fiscal month, quarter or year may decrease. As a result of these or other factors, our comparable store net sales results, both past and future, are likely to have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock and our operating performance, including our use of markdowns and our ability to leverage operating and other expenses that are somewhat fixed. Our failure to identify and respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise at competitive prices and in adequate quantities that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, gross margins, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations. Misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes could also have a material adverse effect on our image with our customers. Some of our vendors have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories and some have intentionally limited the distribution of their merchandise. The inability or unwillingness on the part of key vendors to expand their operations to keep pace with the anticipated growth of our store concepts, or the loss of one or more key vendors or proprietary brand sources for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have stated our intention to place a greater emphasis on apparel, juniors merchandise, and the proprietary brand penetration within the juniors category in our merchandising assortments than we have in the past, which 8 Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2007 Table of Contents may not be successful in improving our store productivity or profitability. Our goal is to improve the productivity of our stores in terms of sales per square foot and the profitability of our business as a whole by placing a greater emphasis on apparel, juniors merchandise, and the proprietary brand penetration within the juniors category in our merchandising assortments than we have in the past. There can be no guarantee that this shift in merchandising strategy will result in higher sales per square foot in our stores or improved operating margins for our business as a whole. The failure of these strategies to improve sales per square foot and profitability could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We continue to reinvest in our existing store fleet, which may not result in improved operating performance. We believe that store design is an important element in the customer shopping experience. Many of our stores have been in operation for many years and have not been updated or renovated since opening. Some of our competitors are in the process of updating, or have updated, their store designs, which may make our stores appear less attractive in comparison. We have been reinvesting in our stores in an attempt to update the look of our stores and improve their productivity. This process carries additional risks such as higher than anticipated construction costs, lack of customer acceptance, and lower store productivity than planned or anticipated, among others. There can be no assurance that this process will prove successful in improving operational results or that we can achieve meaningful results in an adequate timeframe. Any inability on our part to successfully implement new store designs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our continued growth depends, in part, on our ability to develop new store concepts and/or open new stores that achieve acceptable levels of profitability. Any failure to do so may negatively impact our stock price and operational performance. Our store concepts are located principally in enclosed regional shopping malls. Our PacSun concept is a relatively mature concept with limited domestic opportunities to open new stores in such malls. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new store concepts that will enable us to continue to grow profitably. Any new store concept could divert significant management attention from our core PacSun business. Any inability to sustain future long-term growth opportunities could have a material adverse impact on our business, stock price, financial condition and results of operations. We are in the process of closing our demo stores. This process could divert significant attention from our more successful PacSun and PacSun Outlet operations and we are likely to incur significant cash charges for lease terminations, the amount of which is not currently known. In January 2008, we announced our intention to close our remaining 153 demo stores. We have initiated inventory liquidation sales in these stores as of February 3, 2008. This process could result in significant distraction from our go-forward PacSun and PacSun Outlet operations. In addition, the Company will incur significant cash charges in the near future related to lease terminations, inventory liquidation costs, employee retention and severance obligations, and/or agency fees associated with the closure of the demo store concept. The actual amounts of such charges will not be known until actual lease terminations are negotiated with landlords and the inventory liquidation process has been completed. However, we expect to make total cash payments of approximately $50-60 million during the first half of fiscal 2008 to terminate all demo store leases and pay all liquidation-related employee retention and severance costs, agency fees, and other charges associated with the closure of demo. Any inability to successfully exit demo in a timely and cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, financial condition and results of operations. Any deterioration in consumer spending due to macro-economic issues that are beyond our control can have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity and stock price. Recently, the macro-economic environment has been highly volatile due to negative news regarding a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the deterioration of the housing market, lack of credit availability, rising gas prices, inflation fears, and significant stock market volatility. Any or all of these factors, as well as other unforeseen factors, could have a significant negative impact on consumer spending, including specialty retail, at any time. Any significant or prolonged decrease in consumer spending could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and stock price. Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2007 9 Table of Contents We face significant competition from both vertically-integrated and brand-based competitors that are growing rapidly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The retail apparel, accessory and footwear business is highly competitive. All of our stores compete on a national level with a diverse group of retailers, including vertically-integrated and brand-based national, regional and local specialty retail stores and certain leading department stores that offer the same or similar brands and styles of merchandise as we do. Many of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater resources than we do. We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry are fashion, merchandise assortment, quality, price, store location, environment and customer service. Our customers may not prefer our proprietary brand merchandise, which may negatively impact our profitability. For our PacSun and PacSun Outlet stores, sales from proprietary brand merchandise accounted for approximately 30%, 30%, and 34% of net sales in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve increases in proprietary brand merchandise sales as a percentage of net sales. Because our proprietary brand merchandise generally carries higher merchandise margins than our other merchandise, our failure to anticipate, identify and react in a timely manner to fashion trends with our proprietary brand merchandise, particularly if the percentage of net sales derived from proprietary brand merchandise changes significantly (up or down), may have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations. Our current or prospective vendors may be unable or unwilling to supply us with adequate quantities of their merchandise in a timely manner or at acceptable prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The success of our business is dependent upon developing and maintaining good relationships with our vendors. We work very closely with our vendors to develop and acquire appropriate merchandise at acceptable prices for our stores. However, we do not have any contractual relationships with our vendors. In addition, some of our vendors are relatively unsophisticated or underdeveloped and may have difficulty in providing adequate quantities or quality of merchandise to us in a timely manner. Also, certain of our vendors sell their merchandise directly to retail customers in direct competition with us. Our vendors could discontinue their relationship with us or raise prices on their merchandise at any time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire sufficient quantities of quality merchandise at acceptable prices in a timely manner in the future. Any inability to do so, or the loss of one or more of our key vendors, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our foreign sources of production may not always be reliable, which may result in a disruption in the flow of new merchandise to our stores. We purchase merchandise directly in foreign markets for our proprietary brands. In addition, we purchase merchandise from domestic vendors, some of which is manufactured overseas. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs and quotas. We face competition from other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) enhanced security measures at United States ports, which could delay delivery of imports; (iii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in a region within which we do business; (iv) imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (v) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; (vi) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States ports; and (vii) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity. New initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in countries that we do business with. Any inability on our part to rely on our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business at any time. Our continued success is dependent to a significant degree upon the services of our key personnel, particularly our executive officers. The loss of 10 Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2007 Table of Contents the services of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in the future will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our information systems may not be adequate to support future growth, which could disrupt business operations. We have experienced periods of rapid growth in the past. While we regularly evaluate our information systems capabilities and requirements, there can be no assurance that our existing information systems will be adequate to support future growth or will remain adequate to support the existing needs of our business. In order to support future growth, we may have to undertake significant information system implementations, modifications and/or upgrades in the future at significant cost to us. Such projects involve inherent risks associated with replacing and/or changing existing systems, such as system disruptions and the failure to accurately capture data, among others. Information system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse outcomes of litigation matters could significantly affect our operational results. We are involved from time to time in litigation incidental to our business. We believe that the outcome of current litigation will not have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation. Any disruption of our distribution activities could have a material adverse impact on our business. We currently operate two distribution facilities, one in Anaheim, California, that has been in operation for several years and the other in Olathe, Kansas, which opened in May 2007. We announced in January 2008 our decision to consolidate our distribution function within our Olathe facility. This consolidation process is well underway and we anticipate being fully transitioned to the Olathe facility by the end of April 2008. However, any significant interruption in the operation of the existing distribution facilities or delay in the ramp up of operations in our Olathe distribution center due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our Olathe distribution center will be adequate to support our future growth. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, which can negatively impact our total market value. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and there can be no assurance that the market price of the common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or management discussions concerning the Company or its competitors, net sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates made by management or analysts, or changes in accounting policies, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in the past. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Selling merchandise over the internet carries particular risks that can have a negative impact on our business. Our internet operations are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Specific risks include: (i) diversion of sales from our stores; (ii) rapid technological change; (iii) liability for online content; and (iv) risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. In addition, internet operations involve risks which are beyond our control that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results, including: (i) price competition involving the items we intend to sell; (ii) the entry of our vendors into the internet business, in direct competition with us; (iii) the level of Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2007 11 Table of Contents merchandise returns experienced by us; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) online security breaches involving unauthorized access to Company and/or customer information; (vi) credit card fraud; and (vii) competition and general economic conditions specific to the internet, online commerce and the apparel industry. Any failure by us to maintain credit facility financial covenants could have a material adverse impact on our business. A significant decrease in our operating results could adversely affect our ability to maintain required financial ratios under our credit facility. Required financial ratios include a rolling four-quarter minimum fixed charge coverage ratio as well as a maximum leverage ratio. If these financial ratios are not maintained, the lenders will have the option to terminate the facility and require immediate repayment of all amounts outstanding under the credit facility, if any. The alternatives available to the Company if in default of its covenants would include renegotiating certain terms of the credit agreement, obtaining waivers from the lenders, or obtaining a new credit agreement with another bank or group of lenders, which may contain different terms. If we were unable to obtain waivers or renegotiate acceptable lending terms, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to obtain a new credit agreement with another bank or group of lenders on similar terms or at all. The effects of terrorism or war could significantly impact consumer spending and our operational performance. The majority of our stores are located in regional shopping malls. Any threat or actual act of terrorism, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower customer traffic in regional shopping malls. In addition, local authorities or mall management could close regional shopping malls in response to any immediate security concern. Mall closures, as well as lower customer traffic due to security concerns, could result in decreased sales. Additionally, war or the threat of war could significantly diminish consumer spending, resulting in decreased sales for the Company. Decreased sales would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ************* We caution that the risk factors described above could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on behalf of the Company. Further, we cannot assess the impact of each such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 