ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and we intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. We are providing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained herein. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, future events or performance (often, but not always identifiable by the use of words or phrases such as “will result,” “expects to,” “will continue,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “intends,” “estimated,” “projects” and “outlook”) are not historical facts and may be forward-looking and, accordingly, such statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, the following categories of expectations about: • our branding and merchandising strategies, including our plans to work with our heritage brands to reinvigorate the PacSun shopping experience and our plans to expand the number of stores in which we carry footwear during fiscal 2010, • our “localization” strategies, including our belief that redefining our merchandise assortment planning strategies could improve both our sales and merchandise margin performance and our expectations that the full impact of our “localization” strategies will begin to take effect in the second half of fiscal 2010, • our plans to eliminate our “value” store designations and our belief that such plans will lead to improved sales and merchandise margin performance versus fiscal 2009, • forecasts of future sales activity, inventory levels and selling, general and administrative expenses, • the sufficiency of working capital, operating cash flows and available credit to meet our operating and capital expenditure requirements, • our capital expenditure plans for fiscal 2010, • forecasts of future store closures, expansions, relocations and store refreshes, including planned fiscal 2010 activities, • future borrowings and repayments under our credit facility, and • future increases in occupancy expenses All forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after such statements are made. Our failure to identify and respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner could have a material adverse impact on our business and profitability. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise at competitive prices and in adequate quantities that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, gross margins, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations. Misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes could also have a material adverse effect on our image with our customers. Some of our vendors have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories and some have intentionally limited the distribution of their merchandise. The inability or unwillingness on the part of key vendors to expand their 8 Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2009 Table of Contents operations to accommodate our merchandising requirements, or the loss of one or more key vendors or proprietary brand sources for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face significant competition from both vertically-integrated and brand-based competitors which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The retail apparel business is highly competitive. All of our stores compete on a national level with a diverse group of retailers, including vertically-integrated and brand-based national, regional and local specialty retail stores, and certain leading department stores and off-price retailers that offer the same or similar brands and styles of merchandise as we do. Many of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater resources than we do. We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry are fashion, merchandise assortment, quality, price, store location, environment and customer service. Our failure to reverse declining sales in our Juniors business would have a material adverse impact on our business and profitability. In fiscal 2009, our Juniors business accounted for approximately 49% of total net sales. Juniors’ sales experienced a same store decline of 19% in fiscal 2009. The failure to reverse this negative trend would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We have previously changed certain of our merchandising and real estate strategies with the goal of improving our operating results. We may continue to modify our strategies going forward and we cannot be certain that our existing or modified strategies will be successful in improving our store productivity or profitability. We recently eliminated the distinction between our “Core” PacSun stores and our “Value” PacSun stores as this distinction has not resulted in improved operating results. We have also reintroduced selected footwear and accessory merchandise in an effort to recapture sales within these product categories. We are also restructuring existing occupancy terms for underperforming stores and closing a number of stores that are unprofitable. All of these strategy decisions are aimed at improving our operating results. However, there can be no assurance that these new strategies, or any future modification of our strategies, will be successful or result in improved operating results. The failure of these strategies to improve our operating results could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our comparable store net sales results fluctuate significantly, which can cause volatility in our operating performance and stock price. Our comparable store net sales results have fluctuated significantly over time, and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, over the past five years, quarterly comparable store net sales results for our stores have varied from a low of minus 24% to a high of plus 8%. A variety of factors affect our comparable store net sales results, including unfavorable economic conditions and decreases in consumer spending, changes in fashion trends and customer preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, and weather conditions. Our comparable store net sales results for any fiscal period may decrease. As a result of these or other factors, our comparable store net sales results, both past and future, are likely to have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock and our operating performance, including our use of markdowns and our ability to leverage operating and other expenses that are somewhat fixed. Our net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis. We experience major seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the third quarter back-to-school and fourth quarter holiday season. Any decrease in sales or margins during these periods could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, since we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We generally carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the back-to-school and holiday season selling periods. If we are not successful in selling inventory during these periods, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our customers may not prefer our proprietary brand merchandise, which may negatively impact our profitability. Sales from proprietary brand merchandise accounted for approximately 48%, 38%, and 30% of net Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2009 9 Table of Contents sales in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. There can be no assurance that any change in the sales penetration of proprietary brand merchandise will improve our operating results. Because our proprietary brand merchandise generally carries higher merchandise margins than our other merchandise, our failure to anticipate, identify and react in a timely manner to fashion trends with our proprietary brand merchandise, particularly if the percentage of net sales derived from proprietary brand merchandise changes significantly (up or down), may have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations. Our foreign sources of production may not always be reliable, which may result in a disruption in the flow of new merchandise to our stores. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of our merchandise. We purchase merchandise directly in foreign markets for our proprietary brands. In addition, we purchase merchandise from domestic vendors, some of which is manufactured overseas. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs and quotas. We face competition from other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) enhanced security measures at United States ports, which could delay delivery of imports; (iii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in a region within which we do business , and competition with other companies for import quota capacities; (iv) imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (v) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; (vi) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States ports; (vii) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity; and (viii) acts of terrorism. New initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in countries that we do business with. Any inability on our part to rely on our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business at any time. Our continued success is dependent to a significant degree upon the services of our key personnel, particularly our executive officers. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in the future will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In this regard, we have historically used stock awards as a component of our total employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. As a result of the decline in our stock price in recent periods, the ability to retain present, or attract prospective employees has been adversely affected. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate our business from one corporate headquarters facility and one distribution facility which exposes us to significant operational risks. All of our corporate headquarters functions reside within a single facility in Anaheim, California. Our distribution function resides within a single facility in Olathe, Kansas. Any significant interruption in the availability or operation of our corporate headquarters or distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on our ability to operate existing stores that achieve acceptable levels of profitability. Any failure to do so may negatively impact our stock price and operational performance. Our stores are located principally in enclosed regional shopping malls. PacSun is a relatively mature concept with limited domestic 10 Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2009 Table of Contents opportunities to open new stores in such malls. The rate of our new store openings has declined significantly over recent years, and we expect to open no more than five stores per year going forward. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to successfully operate existing stores in a manner that will enable us to achieve acceptable levels of profitability. Any inability to profitably operate our existing stores will have a material adverse impact on our business, stock price, financial condition and results of operations. We have stated our intention to pursue a merchandise assortment planning strategy based on localization, which may not be successful in improving our store productivity or profitability. We have implemented a strategic initiative to improve the productivity of our stores in terms of sales per square foot and the profitability of our business as a whole by placing a greater emphasis on grouping our stores into a number of store clusters based on customer segmentations, brand performance, differences in weather and demographics, among other characteristics. See Part I, Item I, “Business” for further discussion of this initiative. In conjunction with this initiative, we are beginning to implement certain changes in our allocation strategies designed to achieve better delivery of product to our customers. It is uncertain whether this shift in merchandising strategy will result in higher sales per square foot in our stores or improved operating margins for our business as a whole. Moreover, implementation of this strategy could increase costs and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems. The failure of this strategy to improve sales per square foot and profitability could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. The continued volatility in the U.S. economy has adversely affected consumer spending, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and stock price. Our business operations and financial performance depend significantly on general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Consumer spending is impacted by a number of factors, including consumer confidence in the strength of the general economy, fears of economic recession or depression, the availability and cost of consumer credit, the cost of basic necessities such as food, fuel and housing, inflation, salary and wage levels, levels of taxation and unemployment levels. Recent unfavorable economic conditions in the U.S. have resulted in an overall slowing in the retail sector because of decreased consumer spending, which may continue to decline for the foreseeable future. The cost of purchased merchandise may increase as economies of scale are eroded by decreased global demand, and as other costs increase. These and other economic factors could continue to have a material adverse effect on demand for our merchandise and on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination and the ability of shopping mall anchor tenants and other attractions within the vicinity of our stores to generate customer traffic. Unfavorable economic conditions, particularly in certain regions, have adversely affected mall traffic and resulted in the closing of certain anchor tenants. A continued slowdown in the U.S. economy or an uncertain economic outlook could continue to lower consumer spending levels and cause a decrease in shopping mall traffic, each of which would adversely affect our sales results and financial performance. Our current or prospective vendors may be unable or unwilling to supply us with adequate quantities of their merchandise in a timely manner or at acceptable prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The success of our business is dependent upon developing and maintaining good relationships with our vendors. We work very closely with our vendors to develop and acquire appropriate merchandise at acceptable prices for our stores. In addition, some of our vendors are relatively unsophisticated or underdeveloped and may have difficulty in providing adequate quantities or quality of merchandise to us in a timely manner. Also, certain of our vendors sell their merchandise directly to retail customers in direct competition with us. Our vendors could discontinue their relationship with us or raise prices on their merchandise at any time. In addition, the raw materials used by our vendors to manufacture our products may become subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused by high demand for fabrics, weather, economic conditions, government regulations or other factors affecting supply conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire sufficient quantities of quality merchandise at Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2009 11 Table of Contents acceptable prices in a timely manner in the future. Any inability to do so, or the loss of one or more of our key vendors, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Consolidation in the commercial retail industry may affect our ability to successfully negotiate favorable rent terms for our stores in the future. As a mall-based retailer, the success of our business is dependent upon developing and maintaining good relationships with our landlords. Potential consolidation in the commercial retail industry could limit our ability in the future to negotiate favorable rent terms or potentially close unprofitable stores. Should significant consolidation occur, a large proportion of our store base could be concentrated with one or a few entities that control premium mall space. These entities could then be in a position to dictate unfavorable terms to us due to the significant leverage they would possess. If we are unsuccessful in negotiating favorable rent terms with these entities and are therefore unable to profitably operate our existing stores, there would be a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Any reinvestment in our existing store base may not result in improved operating performance. Conversely, the lack of any reinvestment may cause many of our stores to appear less attractive to customers. We believe that store design is an important element in the customer shopping experience. Many of our stores have been in operation for many years and have not been updated or renovated since opening. Some of our competitors are in the process of updating, or have updated, their store designs, which may make our stores appear less attractive in comparison. Due to the current economic environment and store performance, we have significantly scaled back our store refresh program. Any inability on our part to successfully implement new store designs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any material failure, interruption or security breach of our computer systems or information technology may adversely affect the operation of our business and our financial results. We are dependent on our computer systems and information technology to properly conduct business. A failure or interruption of our computer systems or information technology could result in the loss of data, business interruptions or delays in our operations. Also, despite our considerable efforts and technological resources to secure our computer systems and information technology, security breaches, such as unauthorized access and computer viruses, may occur resulting in system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any security breach of our computer systems or information technology may result in adverse publicity, loss of sales and profits, damages, fines or other loss resulting from misappropriation of information. In addition, while we regularly evaluate our information systems capabilities and requirements, there can be no assurance that our existing information systems will be adequate to support the existing or future needs of our business. We may have to undertake significant information system implementations, modifications and/or upgrades in the future at significant cost to us. Such projects involve inherent risks associated with replacing and/or changing existing systems, such as system disruptions and the failure to accurately capture data, among others. Information system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The effects of terrorism or war could significantly impact consumer spending and our operational performance. The majority of our stores are located in regional shopping malls. Any threat or actual act of terrorism, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower customer traffic in regional shopping malls. In addition, local authorities or mall management could close regional shopping malls in response to any immediate security concern. Mall closures, as well as lower customer traffic due to security concerns, could result in decreased sales. Additionally, war or the threat of war could significantly diminish consumer spending, resulting in decreased sales. Decreased sales would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we source our product globally, any threat or actual act of terrorism or war could cause a disruption to our inventory supply which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2009 Table of Contents Adverse outcomes of litigation matters or failure to comply with federal or state regulations could significantly affect our operating results. We are involved from time to time in litigation incidental to our business. We believe that the outcome of current litigation will not have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation. In addition to SEC rules and regulations, Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and other U.S. public company regulations, there are various other requirements mandated for the textiles and apparel industries such as the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, California’s Proposition 65 and similar state laws. Failure to comply with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other’s intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. We believe that our trademarks and domain names are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trademarks or domain names could diminish the value of our brands and cause a decline in our net sales. Although we have secured or are in the process of securing protection for our trademarks and domain names in the United States and a number of other countries, there are certain countries where we do not currently have or where we do not currently intend to apply for protection for certain trademarks or at all. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our trademarks may not be sufficient or effective. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent other persons from using our trademarks or domain names, which also could adversely affect our business. We are also subject to the risk that we or the third-party brands we carry may infringe on the intellectual property rights of other parties. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us or the third-party brands we carry, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to pay additional royalties or license fees. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Selling merchandise over the Internet carries particular risks that can have a negative impact on our business. Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Specific risks include: (i) diversion of traffic and sales from our stores; (ii) rapid technological change; (iii) liability for online content; and (iv) risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. In addition, Internet operations involve risks which are beyond our control that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results, including: (i) price competition involving the items we intend to sell; (ii) the entry of our vendors into the Internet business, in direct competition with us; (iii) the level of merchandise returns experienced by us; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) online security breaches involving unauthorized access to Company and/or customer information; (vi) credit card fraud; and (vii) competition and general economic conditions specific to the Internet, online commerce and the apparel industry. While we have installed privacy protection systems, devices and activity monitoring on our network, if unauthorized parties gain access to our networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our private and sensitive third-party information. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules. This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalties and adverse publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Further, if we are unable to comply with security standards established by banks and the credit card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect our retail operations. Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Form 10-K 2009 13 Table of Contents Our stock price can fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, which can negatively impact our total market value. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and there can be no assurance that the market price of the common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or management discussions concerning us or our competitors, net sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates made by management or analysts, our failure to meet analysts’ estimates, changes in accounting policies, or unfavorable economic conditions, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the recent distress in the financial markets has resulted in extreme price and volume volatility. This volatility has had, and similar events in the future could have, a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. ************* We caution that the risk factors described above could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on behalf of the Company. Further, we cannot assess the impact of each such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 