ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and we intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. We are hereby providing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements of the Company herein. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, future events or performance (often, but not always identifiable by the use of words or phrases such as “will result,” “expects to,” “will continue,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “intends,” “estimated,” “projects” and “outlook”) are not historical facts and may be forward-looking and, accordingly, such statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements included in this report, including forecasts of fiscal 2007 planned new store openings, store closures, and future capital expenditures, and the statement of our belief that we can enhance profitability by reinvesting in our existing store fleet, are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after such statements are made. Our comparable store net sales results will fluctuate significantly, which can cause volatility in our operating performance and stock price. Our comparable store net sales results have fluctuated significantly on a monthly, quarterly, and annual basis, and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, over the past five years, monthly comparable store net sales results have varied from a low of minus 11% to a high of plus 20%. A variety of factors 8 Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Annual Report 2006 Table of Contents affect our comparable store net sales results, including changes in fashion trends and customer preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, weather conditions and general economic conditions. Our comparable store net sales results for any particular fiscal month, quarter or year may decrease. As a result of these or other factors, our comparable store net sales results, both past and future, are likely to have a significant effect on our operating performance and the market price of our common stock. Our failure to identify and respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise at competitive prices and in adequate quantities that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, gross margins, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations. Misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes could also have a material adverse effect on our image with our customers. Some of our vendors have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories and some have intentionally limited the distribution of their merchandise. The inability or unwillingness on the part of key vendors to expand their operations to keep pace with the anticipated growth of our store concepts, or the loss of one or more key vendors or proprietary brand sources for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our continued growth depends on our ability to develop new store concepts and to open, expand and remodel stores in our existing concepts on a profitable basis. Any failure to do so may negatively impact our stock price and operational performance. Our continued growth depends to a significant degree on the success of our existing retail stores, our ability to open, expand and remodel stores on a profitable basis, and to manage our planned expansion. Our store concepts are located principally in enclosed regional shopping malls. Our PacSun concept is a relatively mature concept with limited domestic opportunities to open new stores in such malls. The performance of our demo concept has been inconsistent and the size of the market for this concept is uncertain. Our newest concept, One Thousand Steps, is at a very early stage (nine stores) and is not yet proven. Given the current trend of our business, we have slowed the pace of planned store openings and increased our planned store closings for fiscal 2007. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our planned expansion, that such expansion will be profitable, or that we will be able to manage our growth effectively. In addition, our ability to sustain future long-term growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to successfully develop, implement and evolve new retail concepts, including demo and One Thousand Steps. Our planned expansion is dependent upon a number of factors, including the performance of our existing stores, our ability to locate and obtain favorable store sites, negotiate acceptable lease terms, obtain adequate supplies of merchandise and hire and train additional qualified management level and other employees with the skills required to create or acquire new, unrelated retail concepts. Factors beyond our control may also affect our ability to expand, including general economic and business conditions affecting consumer spending. Any failure to manage growth or develop profitable new retail concepts could have a material adverse effect on our business, stock price, financial condition and results of operations. We launched operations of a new retail concept, One Thousand Steps, in fiscal 2006, which could divert attention from existing operations. We have launched operations for One Thousand Steps in fiscal 2006 through the opening of the first nine test stores. This new concept is at a very early stage and is not yet proven. Our ability to make this new retail concept successful is subject to numerous risks, including, but not limited to, (i) lower productivity (in terms of sales per square foot) than anticipated or required to make the concept profitable and expandable, (ii) higher than anticipated construction costs, (iii) unanticipated operating problems, (iv) lack of customer acceptance, (v) new vendor relationships, (vi) competition from existing and new retailers, and (vii) lack of sufficient product differentiation. There can be no assurance that this new retail concept will achieve sales and profitability levels that justify the Company’s investment in it. Additionally, the expansion of this new retail concept involves other risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including, but not limited to, (i) diversion of management’s attention from the Company’s core businesses, (ii) inability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, including management and product designers, and (iii) difficulty in locating and obtaining favorable store sites and negotiating acceptable lease terms. Any inability to Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Annual Report 2006 9 Table of Contents succeed in developing this new retail concept could have a material adverse effect on our continued growth and results of operations. We face significant competition from both vertically-integrated and brand-based competitors that are growing rapidly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The retail apparel, footwear and accessory business is highly competitive. All of our store concepts compete on a national level with a diverse group of retailers, including vertically-integrated and brand-based national, regional and local specialty retail stores and certain leading department stores that offer the same or similar brands and styles of merchandise as we do. Many of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater resources than we do. We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry are fashion, merchandise assortment, quality, price, store location, environment and customer service. Our customers may not prefer our proprietary brand merchandise, which may negatively impact our profitability. Sales from proprietary brand merchandise accounted for approximately 28%, 31%, and 30% of net sales in fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve increases in proprietary brand merchandise sales as a percentage of net sales. Because our proprietary brand merchandise generally carries higher merchandise margins than our other merchandise, our failure to anticipate, identify and react in a timely manner to fashion trends with our proprietary brand merchandise, particularly if the percentage of net sales derived from proprietary brand merchandise changes significantly (up or down), may have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, operating margins, financial condition and results of operations. Our current or prospective vendors may be unable or unwilling to supply us with adequate quantities of their merchandise in a timely manner or at acceptable prices, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. The success of our business is dependant upon developing and maintaining good relationships with our vendors. We work very closely with our vendors to develop and acquire appropriate merchandise at acceptable prices for our stores. However, we do not have any contractual relationships with our vendors. In addition, some of our vendors are relatively unsophisticated or underdeveloped and may have difficulty in providing adequate quantities or quality of merchandise to us in a timely manner. Also, certain of our vendors sell their merchandise directly to retail customers in direct competition with us. Our vendors could discontinue their relationship with us or raise prices on their merchandise at any time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire sufficient quantities of quality merchandise at acceptable prices in a timely manner in the future. Any inability to do so, or the loss of one or more of our key vendors, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our foreign sources of production may not always be reliable, which may result in a disruption in the flow of new merchandise to our stores. We purchase merchandise directly in foreign markets for our proprietary brands. In addition, we purchase merchandise from domestic vendors, some of which is manufactured overseas. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs and quotas. We face competition from other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) enhanced security measures at United States ports, which could delay delivery of imports; (iii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in a region within which we do business; (iv) imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (v) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; (vi) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States ports; and (vii) local business practice and political issues, including issues relating to compliance with domestic or international labor standards which may result in adverse publicity. New initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in countries that we do business with. Any inability on our part to rely on our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Annual Report 2006 Table of Contents We are currently evaluating store design alternatives for all of our retail concepts, which may not result in improved operational performance. We believe that store design is an important element in the customer shopping experience. Many of our stores have been in operation for many years and have not been updated or renovated since opening. Some of our competitors are in the process of updating, or have updated, their store designs, which may make our stores appear less attractive visually. We have been testing or plan to test new store design alternatives for all of our retail concepts in an attempt to update the look of our stores and improve their productivity. This process carries additional risks such as higher than anticipated construction costs, lack of customer acceptance, and lower store productivity than planned or anticipated, among others. There can be no assurance that this process will prove successful in improving operational results or that we can achieve meaningful results in an adequate timeframe. Any inability on our part to successfully implement new store designs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business at any time. Our continued success is dependent to a significant degree upon the services of our key personnel, particularly our executive officers. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in the future will also be dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Ms. Kasaks currently serves as our Interim Chief Executive Officer. We have been and are continuing a search for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. Delays in identifying and engaging a new Chief Executive Officer could adversely affect our business, and once engaged, we cannot be certain how much time will be required for the new Chief Executive Officer to become fully familiar with our business. Our information systems may not be adequate to support future growth, which could disrupt business operations. We have experienced periods of rapid growth in the past. While we regularly evaluate our information systems capabilities and requirements, there can be no assurance that our existing information systems will be adequate to support future growth or will remain adequate to support the existing needs of our business. In order to support future growth, we may have to undertake significant information system implementations, modifications and/or upgrades in the future at significant cost to us. Such projects involve inherent risks associated with replacing and/or changing existing systems, such as system disruptions and the failure to accurately capture data, among others. Information system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse outcomes of litigation matters could significantly affect our operational results. We are involved from time to time in litigation incidental to our business. We believe that the outcome of current litigation will not have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations or financial condition. However, our assessment of current litigation could change in light of the discovery of facts with respect to legal actions pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation. Our dependence on a single distribution facility exposes us to significant business disruption risks. All of our current distribution functions continue to reside within a single facility in Anaheim, California. The Company plans to begin operating a second distribution center in Olathe, Kansas in the first half of fiscal 2007. Any significant interruption in the operation of the existing distribution facility or delay of the opening of our second distribution center due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that our current distribution center will be adequate to support our future growth. Our stock price can fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, which can negatively impact our total market value. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and there can be no assurance that the Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Annual Report 2006 11 Table of Contents market price of the common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or management discussions concerning the Company or its competitors, net sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates made by management or analysts, or changes in accounting policies, among other factors, could cause the market price of the common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume volatility in the past. This volatility has had a substantial effect on the market prices of securities of many public companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. Selling merchandise over the internet carries particular risks that can have a negative impact on our business. Our internet operations are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Specific risks include: (i) diversion of sales from our stores; (ii) rapid technological change; (iii) liability for online content; and (iv) risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate the website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. In addition, internet operations involve risks which are beyond our control that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results, including: (i) price competition involving the items we intend to sell; (ii) the entry of our vendors into the internet business, in direct competition with us; (iii) the level of merchandise returns experienced by us; (iv) governmental regulation; (v) online security breaches involving unauthorized access to Company and/or customer information; (vi) credit card fraud; and (vii) competition and general economic conditions specific to the internet, online commerce and the apparel industry. Any failure by us to maintain credit facility financial covenants could have a material adverse impact on our business. A significant decrease in our operating results could adversely affect our ability to maintain required financial ratios under our credit facility. Required financial ratios include a rolling four-quarter minimum fixed charge coverage ratio as well as a maximum leverage ratio. If these financial ratios are not maintained, the lenders will have the option to terminate the facility and require immediate repayment of all amounts outstanding under the credit facility, if any. The alternatives available to the Company if in default of its covenants would include renegotiating certain terms of the credit agreement, obtaining waivers from the lenders, or obtaining a new credit agreement with another bank or group of lenders, which may contain different terms. If we were unable to obtain waivers or renegotiate acceptable lending terms, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to obtain a new credit agreement with another bank or group of lenders on similar terms or at all. The effects of terrorism or war could significantly impact consumer spending and our operational performance. The majority of our stores are located in regional shopping malls. Any threat or actual act of terrorism, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower customer traffic in regional shopping malls. In addition, local authorities or mall management could close regional shopping malls in response to any immediate security concern. Mall closures, as well as lower customer traffic due to security concerns, could result in decreased sales. Additionally, war or the threat of war could significantly diminish consumer spending, resulting in decreased sales for the Company. Decreased sales would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ************* We caution that the risk factors described above could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on behalf of the Company. Further, we cannot assess the impact of each such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Pacific Sunwear of California, Inc. Annual Report 2006 Table of Contents 