ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSCautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking StatementsThis report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and we intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. We are providing cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained herein. Any statements that express, or involve discussions as to, expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, future events or performance (often, but not always identifiable by the use of words or phrases such as “will result,” “expects to,” “will continue,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “intends,” “estimated,” “projects” and “outlook”) are not historical facts and may be forward-looking and, accordingly, such statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements in this report include, but are not limited to, the following categories of expectations about:• the sufficiency of operating cash flows, working capital and available credit to meet our operating and capital expenditure requirements;•our capital expenditure plans for fiscal 2014;•potential recording of noncash impairment charges for underperforming stores in future quarters;• increases in product sourcing costs;• forecasts of future store closures, expansions, relocations and store refreshes during fiscal 2014; and•future increases in occupancy costs.6Table of Contents All forward-looking statements included in this report are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after such statements are made.Our failure to improve our comparable store net sales and gross margins could have a material adverse impact on our business, profitability and liquidity.Although we made progress with respect to our comparable store net sales and gross margins in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, if we are unable to continue to grow same-store sales and improve our gross margins in the future, we may be required to access most, if not all, of our credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the “Wells Credit Facility”) and would potentially require other sources of financing to fund our operations, which sources might not be available. Based on current forecasts, we believe that cash flows from operations and working capital will be sufficient to meet our operating and capital expenditure needs for the next twelve months.We face significant competition from vertically-integrated, brand-based, and online retailers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.The retail apparel business is highly competitive. We compete on a national level with a diverse group of retailers, including vertically-integrated and brand-based national, regional and local specialty retail stores, online retailers, and certain leading department stores and off-price retailers that offer the same or similar brands and styles of merchandise as we do. Many of our competitors are larger and have significantly greater resources than we do. We believe the principal competitive factors in our industry are fashion, merchandise assortment, quality, price, store location, environment and customer service. Current and increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our failure to identify and respond appropriately to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner could have a material adverse impact on our business and profitability.Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise at competitive prices and in adequate quantities that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react appropriately in a timely manner to changes in fashion trends could have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, gross margins, operating margins, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes may result in excess or slow-moving inventory, which may need to be heavily discounted to be disposed of. Such discounts and increased inventory costs could have a material adverse effect on our business. Misjudgments or unanticipated fashion changes could also have a material adverse effect on our image with our customers. Some of our vendors have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories and some have intentionally limited the distribution of their merchandise. The inability or unwillingness on the part of key vendors to expand their operations to accommodate our merchandising requirements, or the loss of one or more key vendors or proprietary brand sources for any reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our net sales, operating income and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis.We experience major seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and operating income, with a significant portion of our operating income typically realized during the six to seven week selling periods for each of the back-to-school and holiday seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins during these periods could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in recent years we have experienced higher peaks and extended lulls during the year as customer shopping patterns have changed. The occurrence of unusual or extraordinary events, such as natural disasters, around the peak days of such key holidays and selling periods (e.g, Black Friday), could adversely affect our financial results. Additionally, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the fall/winter season or cold weather during the spring/summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Seasonal fluctuations also affect our inventory levels, since we usually order merchandise in advance of peak selling periods and sometimes before new fashion trends are confirmed by customer purchases. We generally carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the six to seven week back-to-school and holiday season selling periods (the "Peak Selling Seasons"). If we are not successful in selling inventory during these periods, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices, which would adversely affect our profitability. Additionally, in recent years, the Peak Selling Seasons have become more concentrated, with incidents such as inclement weather adversely impacting mall traffic and consumer buying patterns. Our comparable store net sales results fluctuate significantly, which can cause volatility in our operating performance and stock price.Our comparable store net sales results have fluctuated significantly over time, and are expected to continue to fluctuate in the future. For example, over the past five years, annual comparable store net sales results for our stores and online sales have varied from a low of minus 17% to a high of plus 2%, and on a quarterly basis can also vary significantly. A variety of factors affect our comparable store net sales results, including unfavorable economic conditions and decreases in consumer spending, changes in 7Table of Contents fashion trends and customer preferences, changes in our merchandise mix, calendar shifts of holiday periods, actions by competitors, and weather conditions. Our comparable store net sales results for any fiscal period may decrease. As a result of these or other factors, our comparable store net sales results, both past and future, are likely to have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock and our operating performance, including our use of markdowns and our ability to leverage operating and other expenses that are somewhat fixed.Our customers may not prefer our proprietary merchandise, which may negatively impact our profitability.Sales from proprietary merchandise accounted for approximately 49% of total net sales in fiscal 2013, 47% of total net sales in fiscal 2012, and 49% of total net sales in fiscal 2011. There can be no assurance that any change in the sales penetration of proprietary merchandise will improve our operating results. Additionally, there can be no assurance that attempts to balance our proprietary merchandise and other merchandise will improve our operating results. Because our proprietary merchandise generally carries higher merchandise margins than our other merchandise, our failure to anticipate, identify and react in a timely manner to fashion trends with our proprietary merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, operating margins, results of operations and financial condition.Customer preference for our branded merchandise could change, which may negatively impact our profitability.Sales from branded merchandise account for more than half of our total sales and is a critical differentiating factor for our Men’s business. Excluding Men’s denim and knit sales, branded merchandise accounted for approximately 86%, 91% and 88% of Men’s sales in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As customer tastes change, our failure to anticipate, identify and react in a timely manner to emerging fashion trends and appropriately supplying our stores with key brands could have a material adverse effect on our same store sales results, operating margins, results of operations and financial condition.The loss, theft or misuse of sensitive customer, employee or company information, or the failure or interruption of key information technology and resource planning systems, could materially adversely affect our business.Our business involves the storage and transmission of sensitive information including the personal information of our customers, credit card information, employee information, data relating to consumer preferences, and proprietary company financial and strategic data. The protection of our customer, employee and company data is vitally important to us as the loss, theft or misuse of such information could lead to significant reputational, brand or competitive harm, regulatory action, litigation and potential liability. As a result, we believe that our future success and growth depends, in part, on the ability of our key business processes, including our information and communication systems, to prevent the theft, loss or misuse of this sensitive information. However, as with many businesses, we are subject to numerous security and cybersecurity risks which may prevent us from maintaining the privacy of sensitive information and require us to expend significant resources attempting to secure such information.While we have installed privacy protection systems, devices and activity monitoring on our network, if unauthorized parties gain access to our networks, data storage or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our private and sensitive third-party information. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules. This could result in costly investigations, regulatory action, and litigation, civil or criminal penalties and publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Further, if we are unable to comply with security standards established by banks and the credit card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect us. While we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions including significant self-insured deductibles cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses.In addition, we rely on certain information technology management and enterprise resource planning systems to prepare sales forecasts, track our financial and operating results, and otherwise operate our business. While we regularly evaluate our information systems capabilities and requirements, there can be no assurance that our existing information systems will be adequate to support the existing or future needs of our business. We may have to undertake significant information system implementations, modifications and/or upgrades in the future at significant cost to us. Such projects involve inherent risks associated with replacing and/or changing existing systems, such as system disruptions and the failure to accurately capture and protect data, among others. Information system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we fail to maintain good relationships with vendors or if a vendor is otherwise unable or unwilling to supply us with adequate quantities of their products at acceptable prices, our business and financial performance could suffer.Our business is dependent on continued good relations with our vendors. In particular, we believe that we generally are able to obtain attractive pricing and other terms from vendors because we are perceived as a desirable customer, and deterioration in our relationship with our vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that our vendors will provide us with an adequate supply or quality of products or acceptable pricing. Our vendors could discontinue selling to us, raise the prices they charge at any time or allow their merchandise to be discounted by other retailers. There can be no assurance that we 8Table of Contents will be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. In addition, certain of our vendors sell their products directly to the retail market and therefore compete with us directly and other vendors may decide to do so in the future. There can be no assurance that such vendors will not decide to discontinue supplying their products to us, supply us only less popular or lower quality items, raise the prices they charge us or focus on selling their products directly. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise at acceptable prices, or the loss of one or more key vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we are unable to successfully develop and maintain a relevant and reliable multichannel experience for our customers, our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our business has evolved from primarily an in-store experience to interaction with customers across multiple channels (in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others). Our customers are using computers, tablets, mobile phones and other devices to shop in our stores and online and provide feedback and public commentary about all aspects of our business. We currently provide full and mobile versions of our website (Pacsun.com), applications for mobile phones and tablets and interact with our customers through social media. Multichannel retailing is rapidly evolving, however, and we are challenged with keeping pace with changing customer expectations and technology investments by our competitors. If we are unable to attract and retain employees or contract with third parties having the specialized skills needed, or be able to afford the significant investment required to support our multichannel efforts, implement improvements to our customer-facing technology in a timely manner, or provide a convenient and consistent experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if Pacsun.com and our other customer-facing technology systems do not reliably function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, which, if significant, could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.Product costs from our manufacturing partners may increase, which could result in significant margin erosion.Commodity prices, including fuel costs, have fluctuated in recent years, affecting the costs of many of our vendors. If these product costs increase, this could result in margin erosion for us. Additionally, a significant percentage of our private label apparel products, and the products sold to us by our branded partners, are manufactured in China. Manufacturers in that country have experienced increased costs in recent years due to shortages of labor and the fluctuation of the Chinese Yuan in relation to the U.S. dollar. If we were unable to successfully mitigate a significant portion of such product costs, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, an increasingly important part of our Women’s business is speed-to-market initiatives which enable us to timely react to the latest fashion trends and styles. This could translate into higher product costs as we source fashion trend product with shorter lead times. If we are unable to mitigate such costs, it could adversely affect our results of operations.Our foreign sources of production may not always be reliable, which may result in a disruption in the flow of new merchandise to our stores.We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the manufacture of our merchandise. We purchase merchandise directly in foreign markets for our proprietary brands. In addition, we purchase merchandise from domestic vendors, some of which is manufactured overseas. We do not have any long-term merchandise supply contracts and our imports are subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs and quotas. Additionally, some of our vendors are relatively unsophisticated or underdeveloped and may have difficulty providing adequate quantities of quality merchandise to us in a timely manner. We face competition from other companies for production facilities and capacity. We also face a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, such as: (i) political instability; (ii) enhanced security measures at United States ports, which could delay delivery of imports; (iii) imposition of new legislation relating to import quotas that may limit the quantity of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in a region within which our vendors do business, and competition with other companies for import quota capacities; (iv) imposition of duties, taxes, and other charges on imports; (v) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to the failure of foreign-source suppliers to comply with applicable import regulations; (vi) delayed receipt or non-delivery of goods due to organized labor strikes or unexpected or significant port congestion at United States ports; (vii) local business practice and political issues; and (viii) acts of terrorism. New initiatives may be proposed that may have an impact on the trading status of certain countries and may include retaliatory duties or other trade sanctions that, if enacted, would increase the cost of products purchased from suppliers in countries that we do business with. Any inability on our part to rely on our foreign sources of production due to any of the factors listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.A significant decrease in mall traffic would negatively impact our business and operating results.We are primarily a mall-based retailer and are dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination and the ability of shopping mall anchor tenants and other attractions within the vicinity of our stores to generate customer traffic. Increased online shopping and unfavorable economic conditions, particularly in certain regions, have adversely affected mall traffic and resulted in the closing of certain anchor tenants. Growing technology has improved the experience of online shopping and, in some cases, has resulted in a shift of consumer spending from brick-and-mortar to online where competition is even greater since “pure 9Table of Contents play” internet retailers don’t face significant occupancy costs, store payroll, etc., like we do. In addition, volatility in the U.S. economy or an uncertain economic outlook could continue to lower consumer spending levels and cause a decrease in shopping mall traffic, each of which would adversely affect our sales and financial performance.Our inability to reduce occupancy costs in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Occupancy costs represent a significant percentage of the total cost of operating our stores. Occupancy costs as a percentage of net sales were 17% in each of fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011. If we are unsuccessful in further decreasing our occupancy costs as a percent of sales in the future it would be difficult to operate our stores profitably, which in turn would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, or other catastrophic events.Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather and climate conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; or other catastrophic events, whether occurring in the United States or internationally, could disrupt our operations and/or the operations of one or more of our vendors. In particular, these types of events could impact our product supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability to operate our stores or website. In addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, nationally. To the extent any of these events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our business could suffer if a manufacturer fails to conform to applicable domestic or international labor standards.We do not control our vendors or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by any of our vendors, or the divergence of the labor practices followed by any of our vendors from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business at any time.Our future success is dependent to a significant degree upon the services of our key personnel, particularly our executive officers. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, we have historically used equity awards as a component of our executive compensation program in order to align management’s interests with the interests of our shareholders, encourage retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. As a result of the decline in our stock price in recent years, the ability to retain present, or attract prospective executives through equity awards has been adversely affected.Our success also depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including, merchants, designers, buyers, regional directors, district managers, store managers and store associates, who understand and appreciate our corporate culture and product and are able to adequately represent the California lifestyle to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and skills needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the employee turnover rate in the retail industry is high. Competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of suitable employees. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Any reinvestment in our existing store base may not result in improved operating performance.Many of our leases require that we invest capital to remodel or refresh our stores. Historically, such investments generally have not been proven to increase store operating performance. If our leases continue to require us to make capital investments in our stores and those investments generally do not increase store operating performance, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We operate our business from one corporate headquarters facility and one distribution facility which exposes us to significant operational risks.All of our corporate headquarters functions reside within a single facility in Anaheim, California. Our distribution function resides within a single facility in Olathe, Kansas. Any significant interruption in the availability or operation of our corporate headquarters or distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The continued volatility in the U.S. economy and potential inflationary economic conditions may adversely affect consumer spending in the future, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and stock price.Our business operations and financial performance depend significantly on general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Consumer spending is impacted by a number of factors, including consumer confidence in the strength of the 10Table of Contents general economy, fears of economic recession or depression, the availability and cost of consumer credit, the cost of basic necessities such as food, fuel and housing, inflation, salary and wage levels, levels of taxation and unemployment levels. Additionally, inflationary economic conditions would likely increase the costs of manufacturing the goods we sell in our stores which could increase the prices charged by us for our products or reduce gross margins. Inflationary pressure could also have a negative impact on the ability of our customer to buy our products in previous volumes. Any increase in product cost or decrease in customer purchasing power due to inflationary economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The effects of terrorism or war could significantly impact consumer spending and our operational performance.The majority of our stores are located in regional shopping malls. Any threat or actual act of terrorism, particularly in public areas, could lead to lower customer traffic in regional shopping malls. In addition, local authorities or mall management could close regional shopping malls in response to any immediate security concern. Mall closures, as well as lower customer traffic due to security concerns, could result in decreased sales. Additionally, war or the threat of war could significantly diminish consumer spending, resulting in decreased sales. Decreased sales would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we source our product globally, any threat or actual act of terrorism or war could cause a disruption to our inventory supply which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Adverse outcomes of litigation matters or failure to comply with federal or state regulations could adversely affect us.We are involved from time to time in litigation incidental to our business, including two lawsuits involving allegations that we have violated provisions of California wage and hour laws that are described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” (the "Wage and Hour Lawsuits"). We currently cannot assess the likely outcome of the Wage and Hour Lawsuits, but if the outcome were negative in either Lawsuit, it could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, we are subject to SEC rules and regulations, state laws, Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, new rules and regulations issued pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, other U.S. public company regulations, and various other requirements mandated for the textiles and apparel industries such as the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, California’s Proposition 65 and similar state laws. Failure to comply with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Also, changes in such laws could make operating our business more expensive or require us to change the way we do business. For example, changes in laws related to employee healthcare (including particularly the Affordable Care Act), hours, wages, job classification and benefits could significantly increase our operating costs. In addition, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs for certain merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. It may be difficult for us to oversee regulatory changes impacting our business and our responses to changes in the law could be costly and may negatively impact our operations.We also are subject to recently adopted SEC disclosure obligations relating to its use of so-called "conflict minerals" - columbite-tantalite, cassiterite (tin), wolframite (tungsten) and gold. These minerals are present in a significant number of our products. The disclosure obligations are complex, and there is little formal guidance with respect to their application. The first reports under the disclosure obligations are due to be filed with the SEC not later than May 31, 2014, and cover our activities during 2013. Although we expect to be able to file the required report on time, in preparing to do so we are dependent upon the implementation of new processes and information supplied by over 200 suppliers of products that contain, or potentially contain, conflict minerals. To the extent that the information we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate or our processes in obtaining that information do not fulfill the SEC's requirements, we could face both reputational and SEC enforcement risks.Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other’s intellectual property could adversely affect us.We believe that our trademarks and domain names are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our trademarks or domain names could diminish the value of our brands and cause a decline in our net sales. Although we have secured or are in the process of securing protection for our trademarks and domain names in the United States and a number of other countries, there are certain countries where we do not currently have or where we do not currently intend to apply for protection for certain trademarks or at all. Also, the efforts we have taken to protect our trademarks may not be sufficient or effective. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent other persons from using our trademarks or domain names, which also could adversely affect our business. We are also subject to the risk that we or the third-party brands we carry may infringe on the intellectual property rights of other parties. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us or the third-party brands we carry, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to pay additional royalties or license fees. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.Selling merchandise over the Internet carries particular risks that can have a negative impact on our business.11Table of Contents Our Internet operations are subject to numerous risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operational results, including unanticipated operating problems, reliance on third party computer hardware and software providers, system failures and the need to invest in additional computer systems. Specific risks include but are not limited to: (i) diversion of traffic and sales from our stores; (ii) liability for online content; and (iii) risks related to the failure of the computer systems that operate our website and its related support systems, including computer viruses, credit card fraud, telecommunication failures and electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. While we have installed privacy protection systems, devices and activity monitoring on our network, if unauthorized parties gain access to our networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our private and sensitive third-party information. In such circumstances, we could be held liable to our customers or other parties or be subject to regulatory or other actions for breaching privacy rules. This could result in costly investigations and litigation, civil or criminal penalties and adverse publicity that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Further, if we are unable to comply with security standards established by banks and the credit card industry, we may be subject to fines, restrictions and expulsion from card acceptance programs, which could adversely affect us.We may be subject to unionization, work stoppages, slowdowns or increased labor costs.Currently, none of our employees are represented by a union. However, our employees have the right under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation agreements, it could increase our costs and adversely impact our profitability. Moreover, participation is labor unions could put us at increased risk of labor strikes and disruption of our service.Our stock price can fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, which can negatively impact our total market value.The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially and there can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not continue to fluctuate significantly. Future announcements or management discussions concerning us or our competitors, net sales and profitability results, quarterly variations in operating results or comparable store net sales, changes in earnings estimates made by management or analysts, our failure to meet analysts’ estimates, changes in accounting policies, or unfavorable economic conditions, among other factors, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Changes in the market price of our stock could considerably affect the valuation of our derivative instrument and could cause significant non-cash fluctuations in earnings.Failure to maintain adequate financial and management processes and controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and could harm our ability to manage our expenses.We are required to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our independent registered public accounting firm can render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. This process requires us to document our internal controls over financial reporting and to potentially make significant changes thereto, if applicable. As a result, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses to test our financial controls and systems, and we have been and in the future may be required to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, to incur substantial expenses to make such improvements and to hire additional personnel. If our management is ever unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls are ever identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel, processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to raise capital.*************We caution that the risk factors described above, some of which are beyond our control, could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on behalf of the Company. Further, we cannot assess the impact of each such factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.