Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements contained in this Form 10-K may be “forward-looking” within the meaning of the Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our operating results to differ materially from those projected. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual financial performance. RESERVES If our estimated liability for losses and loss expenses is incorrect, our reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses and may have to be increased. We establish and carry, as a liability, reserves based on actuarial estimates of how much we will need to pay in the future for claims incurred as of the end of the accounting period. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated ultimate unpaid liability for losses and loss expenses with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability, but instead represent estimates, generally using actuarial projection techniques at a given accounting date. These reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, trends in loss costs, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the occurrence of an insured event and the time it is actually reported to the insurer. We refine reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. We record adjustments to reserves in the results of operations for the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, we take into account estimated recoveries for reinsurance and salvage and subrogation. Because estimating reserves is an inherently uncertain process, currently established reserves may not be adequate. If we conclude the estimates are incorrect and our reserves are inadequate, we are obligated to increase our reserves. An increase in reserves results in an increase in losses and a reduction in our net income for the period in which the deficiency in reserves is identified. Accordingly, an increase in reserves could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. CATASTROPHE LOSSES AND GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATIONS The occurrence of catastrophic events could materially reduce our profitability. Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophic events. We have experienced, and will in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. Our ability to write new business also could be affected. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, hailstorms, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, severe winter weather and fires, none of which are within our control. Catastrophe losses can vary widely and could significantly impact our results. The frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas. However, hurricanes, earthquakes and other perils may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. Although catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty lines, most of our catastrophe claims in the past have related to homeowners, allied lines and commercial multi-peril coverages. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure from tornadoes, 16 Table of Contents hailstorms and earthquakes in the Midwest as well as catastrophe exposure from hurricanes in Florida and the Gulf Coast, southern coastal states and Mid-Atlantic regions. See “Narrative Description of Business—Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K for a discussion regarding our recent personal lines action with respect to Florida. In the last three years, the largest catastrophe or series of catastrophes to affect STFC’s results of operations in any one year were as follows: 2007 with losses that occurred from hailstorms and windstorms in the Midwest resulting in approximately $10.8 million in pre-tax losses; 2006 with losses that occurred in April from a series of tornadoes, hailstorms and windstorms that caused damage in several of our Midwest operating states resulting in approximately $51.8 million in pre-tax losses; 2005 with losses from hurricanes Katrina and Wilma resulting in approximately $41.7 million in pre-tax losses. We believe that increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured properties and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. In addition, states have from time to time passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas. Although we attempt to reduce the impact on our business of a catastrophe by controlling concentrations of exposures in catastrophe prone areas and through the purchase of reinsurance covering various categories of catastrophes, reinsurance may prove inadequate if a major catastrophic loss exceeds the reinsurance limit, or an insurance subsidiary incurs a number of smaller catastrophes that, individually, fall below the subsidiary’s retention level. UNDERWRITING AND PRICING Our financial results depend primarily on our ability to underwrite risks effectively and to charge adequate rates to policyholders. Our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates accurately for a full spectrum of risks, across a number of lines of insurance. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premium to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. Our ability to underwrite and set rates effectively is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • the availability of sufficient, reliable data; • our ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data; • our ability to timely recognize changes in trends and to project both the severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy; • uncertainties which are generally inherent in estimates and assumptions; • our ability to project changes in certain operating expense levels with reasonable certainty; • the development, selection and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; • our use of modeling tools to assist with correctly and consistently achieving the intended results in underwriting and pricing; • our ability to innovate with new pricing strategies, and the success of those innovations on implementation; • our ability to secure regulatory approval of premium rates on an adequate and timely basis; • our ability to predict policyholder retention accurately; • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action; 17 Table of Contents • unanticipated changes in our claim settlement practices; • changing driving patterns for auto exposures; changing weather patterns for property exposures; • changes in the medical sector of the economy; • unanticipated changes in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices; • impact of inflation and other factors on cost of construction materials and labor; • our ability to monitor property concentration in catastrophe prone areas, such as hurricane, earthquake and wind/hail regions; and • the general state of the economy in the states in which we operate. Such risks may result in our rates being based on inadequate or inaccurate data or inappropriate assumptions or methodologies, and may cause our estimates of future changes in the frequency or severity of claims to be incorrect. As a result, we could under price risks, which would negatively affect our margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our volume and competitiveness. In either event, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. REINSURANCE Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses. We use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to insurance risks. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our business volume and profitability. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Reinsurance may not be adequate to protect us against losses and may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, the magnitude of losses in the reinsurance industry resulting from catastrophes may adversely affect the financial strength of certain reinsurers, which may result in our inability to collect or recover reinsurance. Reinsurers also may reserve their right to dispute coverage with respect to specific claims. With respect to catastrophic or other loss, if we experience difficulty collecting from reinsurers or obtaining additional reinsurance in the future, we will bear a greater portion of the total financial responsibility for such loss, which could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE INDUSTRY The property and casualty insurance industry is highly cyclical, which may cause fluctuations in our operating results. The property and casualty insurance industry, particularly business insurance, has been historically characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity, as well as periods of shortages of underwriting capacity that result in higher prices and more restrictive contract and/or coverage terms. The periods of intense price competition may adversely affect our operating results, and the overall cyclicality of the industry may cause fluctuations in our operating results. While we may adjust prices during periods of intense competition, it remains our strategy to allow for acceptable profit levels and to decline coverage in situations where pricing or risk would not result in acceptable returns. Accordingly, our commercial lines business tends to contract during periods of severe competition and price declines and expand when market pricing allows an acceptable return. The personal lines businesses are characterized by an auto underwriting cycle of loss cost trends. Driving patterns, inflation in the cost of auto repairs and medical care and increasing litigation of liability claims are 18 Table of Contents some of the more important factors that affect loss cost trends. Inflation in the cost of building materials and labor costs and demand caused by weather-related catastrophic events affect personal lines homeowners loss cost trends. Our Company and other personal lines insurers may be unable to increase premiums at the same pace as coverage costs increase. Accordingly, profit margins generally decline in periods of increasing loss costs. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM The independent agency system is the distribution system for our products. Use of this distribution system may constrain our ability to grow at a comparable pace to our competitors that utilize multiple distribution channels. In addition, consumers may prefer to purchase insurance products through alternative channels, such as through the internet, rather than through agents. We market our insurance products through independent, non-exclusive insurance agents, whereas some of our competitors sell their insurance products through direct marketing techniques, the internet or “captive” insurance agents who sell products exclusively for one insurance company. The State Auto Group has supported the independent agency system as our sole distribution channel for the past 86 years. However, we recognize that although the number of distribution locations has expanded, the number of independent agencies in the industry has dramatically shrunk over the past several years due to agency purchases, consolidations, bankruptcies and agent retirements. We also recognize that it will be progressively more difficult to expand the number of independent agencies representing us. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and increasing the number of agencies in our independent agency distribution system, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. The agents that market and sell our products also sell products of our competitors. These agents may recommend our competitors’ products over our products or may stop selling our products altogether. Our strategy of not pursuing market share at prices that are not expected to produce an underwriting profit can have the effect of making top line growth more difficult. When price competition is intense, this effect is exaggerated by the fact our independent agent distribution force has products to sell from other carriers that may be more willing to lower prices to grow top line sales. Consequently, we must remain focused on attracting and retaining productive agents to market and sell our products. We compete for productive agents primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, ease of doing business, compensation and product features. Although we make efforts to ensure we have strong relationships with our independent agents and to persuade them to promote and sell our products, we may not be successful in these efforts. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these agents, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, consumers are increasingly using the internet and other alternative channels to purchase insurance products. While our website provides a significant amount of information about our insurance products, consumers cannot purchase insurance through our website. Instead, consumers must contact one of our independent agents in order to purchase any of our insurance products or make changes to their existing policies. This sole distribution system may place us at a disadvantage with consumers who prefer to purchase insurance products online or through other alternative distributions channels. We also expect there will be consequences from certain of our competitors eliminating contingent commissions to agents as a result of legal actions undertaken by certain states’ Attorneys General. It may be that these or other Attorneys General will pursue other insurers who are continuing to pay contingent commissions or it may be that these insurers will develop alternative compensation structures to replace contingent commissions that could be perceived as more attractive to independent agents, thus driving the marketplace to move in that direction. It may also be that these large insurers will seek to level the playing field for independent agent compensation by lobbying for regulatory or legal changes to prohibit or restrict so-called contingent commissions and other sales incentive compensation. 19 Table of Contents REGULATION Our business is heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which we conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to stockholders and other investors, and relates to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, (See “Narrative Description of Business-Regulation-Dividends” in Item 1), changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. The NAIC and state insurance regulators are constantly reexamining existing laws and regulations, generally focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. From time to time, some states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. In other situations, states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that impact the competitive environment and marketplace for property and casualty insurance. For example, in 2007, Florida enacted legislation that required us to charge rates for homeowners insurance that we believed were inadequate to cover the related underwriting risk. After careful analysis of this legislation, we concluded that we could no longer operate our personal lines on a profitable basis in that state. Accordingly, during the second quarter 2007, we filed an application with the Florida Department of Insurance to withdraw from this state’s personal lines insurance market effective January 1, 2008. Non-renewals on our personal lines business are in process. We will continue to write commercial lines business in Florida. Nearly all states require licensed insurers to participate in guaranty funds through assessments covering a portion of insurance claims against impaired or insolvent insurers. An increase in the magnitude of impaired companies could result in an increase in our share of such assessments. Residual market or pooling arrangements exist in many states to provide certain types of insurance coverage to those that are otherwise unable to find private insurers willing to insure them. Licensed insurers voluntarily writing such coverage are required to participate in these residual markets or pooling mechanisms. Such participation exposes the Company to possible assessments. The potential availability of recoupments or premium rate increases, if applicable, may not offset such assessments in the financial statements nor do so in the same fiscal periods. Many of the states in which we operate have passed or are considering legislation restricting or banning the use of credit scoring in rating and/or risk selection in personal lines of business. Similarly, several states are considering restricting insurers’ rights to use loss history information maintained in various databases by insurance support organizations. These tools help us price our products more fairly and enhance our ability to compete for business that we believe will be profitable. Such regulations would limit our ability, as well as the ability of all other insurance carriers operating in any affected jurisdiction, to take advantage of these tools. Currently the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business. However, in recent years the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to banks. In addition, changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly impact the insurance industry and us. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any enacted, proposed or future state or federal legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the regulatory requirements applicable to our business will not become more stringent in the future or result in materially higher costs than current requirements. Changes in the regulation of our business may reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our operations. 20 Table of Contents CLAIM AND COVERAGE DEVELOPMENTS Developing claim and coverage issues in our industry are uncertain and may adversely affect our insurance operations. As industry practices and legislative, judicial and regulatory conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may develop. These issues could have an adverse effect on our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. The premiums we charge for our insurance products are based upon certain risk expectations. When the legislative, judicial or regulatory authorities expand the burden of risk beyond our expectations, the premiums we previously charged or collected may no longer be sufficient to cover the risk, and we do not have the ability to retroactively modify premium amounts. An example would be a trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claim-handling and other practices. Many of these issues are beyond our control. The effects of these and other unforeseen claims and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could materially harm our business and results of operations. TERRORISM Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, and ensuing events could have an adverse effect on us. Terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause loss of life, property damage, reduced economic activity, and additional disruptions to commerce. Actual terrorist attacks could cause losses from insurance claims related to the property and casualty insurance operations of the State Auto Group, as well as a decrease in our stockholders’ equity, net income and/or revenue. The Terrorism Acts require the federal government and the insurance industry to share in insured losses up to $100 billion per year resulting from certain future terrorist attacks within the United States. Under the Terrorism Acts, we must offer our commercial policyholders coverage against certified acts of terrorism. In December 2007, the United States Congress extended the Terrorism Acts through December 31, 2014, and made some modest changes to the Terrorism Acts. We are evaluating these changes to the Terrorism Act and are taking actions to comply. See “Narrative Description of Business—Regulation” of this Item 1 for a discussion of the Terrorism Acts. In addition, some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. We cannot predict at this time whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of potentially decreased commercial and economic activity, or how any such decrease might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. TECHNOLOGY Our development of business insurance lines automated underwriting tools may not be successful or the benefits may not be realized. We are developing a business insurance lines automation system that will build upon the success we believe we have achieved through our personal lines netXpress™ system. Our netXpress™ allows agents to obtain personal lines rates for applicants on-line in real time and secure consumer reports required for rating or underwriting. This report availability enables our agents to offer a firm quote to a customer in real time at the point of sale. It is our intention to develop similar functionality for business insurance lines as we have in personal lines through netXpress™. 21 Table of Contents While this represents a significant commitment of resources over the next 6 to 24 months, we believe it is vitally important to our ability to maintain our prospects in business lines. Such automation was successfully put into production for businessowners products during the latter part of 2007. We expect to introduce such automation for commercial auto coverage during 2008, to be followed by development of this technology for workers compensation products. We cannot be sure that the development of this technology will be completed within the timeframe projected, or that it will be successful upon implementation. Additionally, because some of our competitors have already implemented or may be implementing similar types of underwriting tools, we may be competitively disadvantaged. A challenge during this development phase will be the utilization of today’s technology in face of a constantly changing technological landscape. There can be no assurance that the development of today’s technology for tomorrow’s use will not result in our being competitively disadvantaged, especially among the larger national carriers that have greater financial and human resources than we. INVESTMENTS The performance of our investment portfolios is subject to investment risks. Like other property and casualty insurance companies, we depend on income from our investment portfolio for a portion of our revenues and earnings and are therefore subject to market risk and the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in equity, interest, commodity or foreign currency exchange rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates and equity prices. Individual securities in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to credit risk. Downgrades in the credit ratings of fixed maturities can have a significant negative effect of the market valuation of such securities. If the fixed-income or equity portfolios, or both, were to be impaired by market, sector or issuer-specific conditions to a substantial degree, our liquidity, financial position and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, our income from these investments could be materially reduced, and declines in the value of certain securities could further reduce our reported earnings and capital levels. A decrease in value of our investment portfolio could also put our insurance subsidiaries at risk of failing to satisfy regulatory minimum capital requirements. If we were not at that time able to supplement our subsidiaries’ capital from STFC or by issuing debt or equity securities on acceptable terms, our business could be materially adversely affected. Also, a decline in market rates could cause the investments in our pension plans to decrease below the accumulated benefit obligation, resulting in additional expense and increasing required contributions to the pension plan. In addition, our investments are subject to risks inherent in the nation’s and world’s capital markets. The functioning of those markets, the values of the investments held by us and our ability to liquidate investments on favorable terms or short notice may be adversely affected if those markets are disrupted or otherwise affected by local, national or international events, such as power outages, system failures, wars or terrorist attacks or by recessions or depressions, a significant change in inflation expectations, a significant devaluation of governmental or private sector credit, currencies or financial markets and other factors or events. EMPLOYEES Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers and executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to our success. Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, including executives and other key managers in a specialized industry. Our loss of certain key officers and employees or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In addition, we must forecast the changing business environments (for multiple business units and in many geographic markets) with reasonable accuracy and adjust hiring programs and/or employment levels accordingly. 22 Table of Contents Our failure to recognize the need for such adjustments, or the failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead either to over-staffing (which would adversely affect our cost structure) or under-staffing (impairing our ability to service our ongoing and new business) in one or more business units or locations. In either event, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. BUSINESS CONTINUITY Our business depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems and business functions, including our information technology and other business systems. Our business is highly dependent upon our ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support and 24-hour claims contact centers, processing new and renewal business, and processing and paying claims. A shut-down of or inability to access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, a pandemic, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity or a third party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, systems failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary corporate functions. This could result in a materially adverse effect on our business results and liquidity. A security breach of our computer systems could also interrupt or damage our operations or harm our reputation. In addition, we could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from our computer systems. Despite the implementation of security measures, including hiring an independent firm to perform intrusion vulnerability testing of our computer infrastructure, these systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to our systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have established a business continuity plan in an effort to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal business operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. While we continue to test and assess our business continuity plan to ensure it meets the needs of our core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event. ACQUISITIONS Acquisitions subject us to a number of financial and operational risks. Since going public in 1991, we and State Auto Mutual have acquired or affiliated with other insurance companies, such as the MIGI Insurers, Milbank, Farmers, SA Wisconsin, and most recently the Beacon and Patrons Groups. It is anticipated that we and State Auto Mutual will continue to pursue acquisitions or affiliations of other insurance companies in the future. Acquisitions and affiliations involve numerous risks and uncertainties, such as: • obtaining necessary regulatory approvals may prove to be more difficult than anticipated; • integrating the business may prove to be more costly than anticipated; • integrating the business without material disruption to existing operations may prove to be more difficult than anticipated; 23 Table of Contents • anticipated cost savings may not be fully realized (or not realized within the anticipated time frame); • loss results of the acquired or affiliated company or business may be worse than expected; • losses may develop differently than what we expected them to; and • retaining key employees of the acquired company or business may prove to be more difficult than anticipated. In addition, other companies in the insurance industry have similar acquisition and affiliation strategies. Competition for target companies or businesses may intensify or we may not be able to complete such acquisitions or affiliations on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Additionally, the costs of unsuccessful acquisition and affiliation efforts may adversely affect our financial performance. FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may negatively affect our business. Insurance companies are subject to financial strength ratings produced by external rating agencies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a strong ability to pay claims. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies to insurers based upon factors that they believe are relevant to policyholders and creditors. Ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our Company and in our ability to market our products. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings could, among other things, negatively affect our ability to sell certain insurance products, our relationships with agents, new sales and our ability to compete. Although other agencies cover the property and casualty industry, we believe our ability to write business is most influenced by our rating from A.M. Best. According to A.M. Best, its ratings are designed to assess an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. Our Pooled Companies and SA National currently have a rating from A.M. Best Company of A+ (Superior) (the second highest of A.M. Best’s 15 ratings). We may not be able to maintain our current A.M. Best ratings. CONTROL BY OUR PARENT COMPANY Our parent company owns a significant interest in us and may exercise its control in a manner detrimental to your interests. As of December 31, 2007, our parent company owned approximately 64% of the voting power of our Company. Therefore, State Auto Mutual has the power to direct our affairs and is able to determine the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of all our directors. State Auto Mutual could exercise its control over us in a manner detrimental to the interests of other STFC stockholders. COMPETITION Our industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The property and casualty insurance business is highly competitive, and we compete with a large number of other insurers. Many of our competitors have well-established national reputations, and substantially greater financial, technical and operating resources and market share than we. We may not be able to effectively compete, which could adversely affect our sales or profitability. We believe that competition in our lines of business is based primarily on price, service, commission structure, product features, financial strength ratings, reputation and name or brand recognition. Our competitors sell through various distribution channels, including independent agents, captive agents and directly to the consumer. We compete not only for business insurance customers and personal insurance customers, but also for independent agents to market and sell our products. 24 Table of Contents Some of our competitors offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or have higher claims paying ability ratings. In addition, other financial institutions are now able to offer services similar to our own as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The increased transparency that arises from information available from the use of tools such as comparative rater software, could work to our disadvantage. We may have difficulty differentiating our products or becoming among the lowest cost providers. Expense efficiencies are important to maintaining and increasing our growth and profitability. If we are unable to realize future expense efficiencies, it could affect our ability to establish competitive pricing and could have a negative effect on new business growth and retention of existing policyholders. VOLATILITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock could be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, certain of which may not be related to our operating performance and are beyond our control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: variations in our actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts; investor perceptions of our Company and/or the property and casualty industry; market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market; and major catastrophic events. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 