Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements contained in this Form 10-K may be “forward-looking” within the meaning of the Section 21E of the Exchange Act. Such forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our operating results to differ materially from those projected. The following factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future could affect, our actual financial performance. If any risks or uncertainties discussed here develop into actual events, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, capital resources, financial position or results of operations. In that case, the market price of our stock could decline materially. The following list of risk factors is not exhaustive and others may exist or develop. RESERVES If our estimated liability for losses and loss expenses is incorrect, our loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our ultimate liability for losses and loss expenses and may have to be increased. We establish loss reserves based on actuarial estimates of the amount to be paid in the future to settle all claims incurred as of the end of the accounting period. We maintain loss reserves to cover our estimated ultimate unpaid liability for losses and loss expenses with respect to reported and unreported claims incurred as of the end of each accounting period. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of the liability, but instead represent estimates, generally using actuarial projection techniques at a given accounting date. Our loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement and administration of claims will cost based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, legal theories of liability and other factors. Variables in the loss reserve estimation process can be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, trends in loss costs, economic inflation, legal developments and legislative changes. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Additionally, there may be a significant reporting lag between the occurrence of an insured event and the time a claim is actually reported to the insurer. We refine loss reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional claims are reported and settled. We record adjustments to loss reserves in the results of operations for the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing loss reserves, we take into account estimated recoveries for reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. Because estimating loss reserves is an inherently uncertain process, currently established loss reserves may not be adequate. If we conclude the estimates are incorrect and our loss reserves are inadequate, we are obligated to increase them. An increase in loss reserves results in an increase in losses, reducing our net income for the period in which the deficiency is identified. Accordingly, an increase in loss reserves could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. CATASTROPHE LOSSES AND GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATIONS The occurrence of catastrophic events could cause volatility in our results of operations and could materially reduce our level of profitability. Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of catastrophic events. We have experienced, and will in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our level of profitability or harm our financial condition, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to write new business. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, hailstorms, tornadoes, windstorms, earthquakes, severe winter weather and fires, none of which are within our control. Catastrophe losses can vary widely and could significantly impact our results. The frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Additionally, catastrophe losses incurred by residual markets or pooling mechanisms (such as wind pools) in certain states could trigger assessments to us. Such assessments could be material and may not be recoupable, depending on the applicable state mechanism. 17 Table of Contents The magnitude of loss from a catastrophe is a function of the severity of the event and the total amount of insured exposure in the affected area. Accordingly, we can sustain significant losses from less severe catastrophes, such as localized windstorms, when they affect areas where our insured exposure is concentrated. Although catastrophes can cause losses in a variety of our property and casualty lines, most of our catastrophe claims in the past have related to homeowners, allied lines and commercial multi-peril coverages. The geographic distribution of our business subjects us to catastrophe exposure from severe thunderstorms, tornadoes and hail, as well as earthquakes and hurricanes affecting the United States. In the last three years, the largest catastrophe or series of catastrophes affecting STFC’s results of operations in any one year were as follows: in 2011, losses arising from a hurricane, tornadoes, and wind and hail storms, which impacted 32 of our operating states, including Hurricane Irene and devastating tornadoes in Tuscaloosa, Alabama and Joplin, Missouri, which resulted in approximately $130.6 million in pre-tax losses; in 2010, losses from a series of spring storms, including wind and hail in northern Ohio, and floods in the Nashville, Tennessee area, both which affected our auto physical damage results in both personal and business insurance auto lines, which resulted in approximately $22.2 million in pre-tax losses; and in 2009, losses from two winter storms in the South and Midwest, which resulted in approximately $41.1 million in pre-tax losses. Increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured properties and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. In addition, states have from time to time passed legislation that limits the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation prohibiting insurers from withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas. Although we attempt to reduce the impact of catastrophes on our business by controlling concentrations of exposures in catastrophe prone areas and through the purchase of reinsurance covering various categories of catastrophes, reinsurance may prove inadequate if a major catastrophic loss exceeds the reinsurance limit, or an insurance subsidiary incurs a number of smaller catastrophes that, individually, fall below the reinsurance retention level. Along with others in the industry, we utilize catastrophe models developed by third party vendors to help assess and manage our exposure to catastrophe losses. Such models assume various conditions and probability scenarios and use historical information about catastrophic events, along with detailed information about our business. There are limitations to the usefulness of such models, and they do not necessarily accurately predict future losses. While we use such modeling information in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to the models’ usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. Such limitations are evidenced by the occurrence of significant variations in estimates between models and modelers; material increases or decreases in model results due to changes and refinements of the underlying data elements and assumptions; and differences observed between the results of actual event conditions and modeled expectations. Climate change, to the extent it affects changes in weather patterns, could impact the frequency or severity of weather events. Some industry commentators have expressed concerns that hydraulic fracturing or “fracking,” a process which involves drilling deep underground wells and injecting water, chemicals and sand into the rock formations in order to extract oil and gas, may cause seismic activity which, among other things, may affect the frequency of earthquakes. We view fracking as an emerging risk facing the industry. Our ongoing catastrophe management efforts could negatively impact growth to the extent constraints on property exposures are deemed necessary in certain territories. In addition, due to the potential impact on cross-selling opportunities, new business growth in the auto lines could be negatively affected. UNDERWRITING AND PRICING Our financial results depend primarily on our ability to underwrite risks effectively and to charge adequate rates to policyholders. Our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations depend on our ability to underwrite and set rates adequately for a full spectrum of risks, across a number of lines of insurance. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premium to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to underwrite and set rates effectively is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation: • the availability of sufficient, reliable data; • our ability to conduct a complete and accurate analysis of available data; • our ability to timely recognize changes in trends and to project both the severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy; • uncertainties which are generally inherent in estimates and assumptions; • our ability to project changes in certain operating expense levels with reasonable certainty; • the development, selection and application of appropriate rating formulae or other pricing methodologies; • our use of predictive modeling or other underwriting tools to assist with correctly and consistently achieving the intended results in underwriting and pricing; • our ability to establish and consistently follow appropriate underwriting guidelines; • our ability to innovate with new pricing strategies, and the success of those innovations on implementation; • our ability to secure regulatory approval of premium rates on an adequate and timely basis and effectively implement such rate changes; • our ability to predict policyholder retention accurately; • unanticipated court decisions, legislation or regulatory action; • unanticipated changes or execution problems in our claim settlement practices; • changing driving patterns for auto exposures; changing weather patterns (including those which may be related to climate change) for property exposures; • changes in the medical sector of the economy; • unanticipated changes in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices; • impact of inflation and other factors, such as demand surge on cost of construction materials, labor and other expenditures; • our ability to monitor and manage property concentration in catastrophe prone areas, such as hurricane, earthquake and wind/hail regions; and • the general state of the economy in the states in which we operate. Such risks may result in our rates being based on inadequate or inaccurate data or inappropriate assumptions or methodologies, and may cause our estimates of future changes in the frequency or severity of claims to be incorrect. As a result, we could under-price risks, which would negatively affect our margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our premium reserves and competitiveness. In either event, our operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. DIVIDENDS There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends consistent with past levels. We have a history of consistently paying cash dividends to our shareholders. However, the future payment of cash dividends will depend upon a variety of factors, such as our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, as well as the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to make distributions to STFC. State 19 Table of Contents insurance laws restrict the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders. In addition, competitive pressures generally require insurance companies to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. Such restrictions and other requirements and factors may affect the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to make dividend payments to STFC. Limits on the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay cash dividends to shareholders. TECHNOLOGY AND TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS Our business success and profitability depend, in part, on effective information technology and telecommunication systems. If we are unable to keep pace with the rapidly developing technological advancements in the insurance industry, our ability to compete effectively could be impaired. We depend in large part on our technology and telecommunication systems for conducting business and processing claims. Our business success is dependent on maintaining the effectiveness of existing technology and telecommunication systems and on their continued development and enhancement to support our business processes and strategic initiatives in a cost effective manner. Since late 2010, we have been involved with the development of a new claims system which we expect to implement for most lines of business during 2012. This initiative has involved a significant commitment of resources. The new system is expected to add functionality and increase our claims efficiency with improved file quality. In spite of our best planning and efforts, it is possible that the system may not be developed within the planned time frame or budget and/or that the expected benefits may not be realized upon implementation. An ongoing challenge during system development and enhancement is the effective and efficient utilization of current technology in face of a constantly changing technological landscape. There can be no assurance that the development of current technology for future use will not result in our being competitively disadvantaged, especially with those carriers that have greater resources. If we are unable to keep pace with the advancements being made in technology, our ability to compete with other insurance companies who have advanced technological capabilities will be negatively affected. Further, if we are unable to effectively execute and update or replace our key legacy technology and telecommunication systems as they become obsolete or as emerging technology renders them competitively inefficient, our competitive position and/or cost structure could be adversely affected. BUSINESS CONTINUITY Our business depends on the uninterrupted operation of our facilities, systems and business functions, including our information technology, telecommunications and other business systems. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not sufficiently address all contingencies. Our business is highly dependent upon our ability to execute, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions, such as Internet support and 24-hour claims contact centers, processing new and renewal business, receiving and processing payment receipts and processing and paying claims. A shut-down of or inability to access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, a pandemic, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. In addition, because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such service exceeds capacity, or if our system or a third party system fails or experiences an interruption. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, systems failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process new and renewal business, provide customer service, receive premium payments, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary corporate functions. This could result in a materially adverse effect on our business results and liquidity and may cause reputational damage. We have established a business continuity plan in an effort to ensure the continuation of core business operations in the event that normal business operations could not be performed due to a catastrophic event. While 20 Table of Contents we continue to test and assess our business continuity plan to ensure it meets the needs of our core business operations and addresses multiple business interruption events, there is no assurance that core business operations could be performed upon the occurrence of such an event, which may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. CYBER-SECURITY THREATS Our highly automated and networked organization is subject to cyber-security threats. These threats come in a variety of forms, such as viruses and malicious software. Such threats can be difficult to prevent or detect, and if experienced, could interrupt or damage our operations, harm our reputation or have a material effect on our operations. Our technology and telecommunications systems are highly integrated and connected with other networks. Cyber-attacks involving these systems could be carried out remotely and from multiple sources and could interrupt, damage or otherwise adversely affect the operations of these critical systems. Cyber-attacks could result in the modification or theft of data, the distribution of false information or the denial of service to users. We obtain, utilize and maintain data concerning individuals and organizations with which we have a business relationship. Threats to data security can emerge and change in rapid fashion, resulting in the ongoing need to expend resources to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory and regulatory requirements. We could be subject to liability if confidential customer information is misappropriated from our technology systems. Despite the implementation of security measures, these systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, programming errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter people from entering into transactions that involve transmitting confidential information to our systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. We rely on services and products provided by many vendors. In the event that one or more of our vendors fails to protect personal information of our customers, claimants or employees, we may incur operational impairments, or could be exposed to litigation, compliance costs or reputational damage. While we have not experienced material cyber-incidents to date, the occurrence and effects of cyber-incidents may remain undetected for an extended period. We do not carry network-liability insurance concerning cyber-attacks. REINSURANCE Reinsurance may not be available, collectible or adequate to protect us against losses, or may cause us to constrain the amount of business we underwrite in certain lines of business and locations. We use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to insurance risks and to manage our capital. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market conditions, which can affect our business volume and profitability. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. As a result, we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Reinsurance may not be adequate to protect us against losses and may not be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, the magnitude of losses in the reinsurance industry resulting from catastrophes may adversely affect the financial strength of certain reinsurers, which may result in our inability to collect or recover reinsurance. Reinsurers also may reserve their right to dispute coverage with respect to specific claims. With respect to catastrophic or other loss, if we experience difficulty collecting from reinsurers or obtaining additional reinsurance in the future, we will bear a greater portion of the total financial responsibility for such loss, which could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Effective December 31, 2011, we entered into a three-year quota share reinsurance agreement covering our homeowners line of business. Under this agreement, 75% of our homeowners premium revenues, losses and ALAE are ceded to third party reinsurers. The reduction in net written premiums may put pressure on our expense ratios with respect to underwriting expenses and ULAE. Consistent with our homeowners profitability plans, we expect to constrain homeowners policy count growth in certain states with geographic concentrations and/or unsatisfactory underwriting results. CYCLICAL NATURE OF THE INDUSTRY The property and casualty insurance industry is highly cyclical, which may cause fluctuations in our operating results. The property and casualty insurance industry, particularly business insurance, has been historically characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity, as well as periods of shortages of underwriting capacity that result in higher prices and more restrictive contract and/or coverage terms. The periods of intense price competition may adversely affect our operating results, and the overall cyclicality of the industry may cause fluctuations in our operating results. While we may adjust prices during periods of intense competition, it remains our strategy to allow for acceptable profit levels and to decline coverage in situations where pricing or risk would not result in acceptable returns. Accordingly, our commercial and specialty lines of business tend to contract during periods of severe competition and price declines and expand when market pricing allows an acceptable return. This can cause volatility in our premium revenues. Our specialty insurance units, RED and Rockhill, market and underwrite commercial exposures through wholesale brokers, program administrators and other specialty sources. The nature of such distribution channels reacting to price competition may result in the movement of business and volatility of premium revenues. The personal lines businesses are characterized by an auto underwriting cycle of loss cost trends. Driving patterns, inflation in the cost of auto repairs and medical care and increasing litigation of liability claims are some of the more important factors that affect loss cost trends. Inflation in the cost of building materials and labor costs and demand caused by weather-related catastrophic events affect personal lines homeowners loss cost trends. Our Company and other personal lines insurers may be unable to increase premiums at the same pace as coverage costs increase. Accordingly, profit margins generally decline in periods of increasing loss costs. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS The current and future difficult economic conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Current economic conditions and economic declines in future reporting periods could adversely impact our business and results of operations. While the volatility of the economic climate makes it difficult for us to predict the complete impact of economic conditions on our business and results of operations, our business may be impacted in a variety of ways. The economy has caused a number of consumers and businesses to decrease their spending, which may impact the demand for our insurance products. For example, declining automotive sales and weaknesses in the housing market generally impact the purchase of our personal auto and homeowners insurance products by consumers and business insurance products by businesses involved in these industries. As unemployment rates continue at high levels, there may be a tendency for the number of workers’ compensation claims to increase, as laid-off and unemployed workers may seek workers’ compensation benefits to replace their lost healthcare benefits. Similarly, uninsured and underinsured motorist claims may rise. Vacated homes and business properties pose increased insurance industry risk. Volatility and weakness in the financial and capital markets may negatively impact the value of our investment portfolio. 22 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by business difficulties, bankruptcies and impairments of other parties with whom we do business, such as independent agents, key vendors and suppliers, reinsurers or banks, which increases our credit risk and other counterparty risks. Bankruptcies among our current business insurance customers can negatively affect our retention. Reductions in new business start-ups may negatively affect the number of future potential business insurance customers. In addition, departments of insurance, taxing authorities and other state and local agencies may seek to impose or increase taxes, assessments and other revenue-generating fees in response to funding reductions caused by economic downturns. These actions may increase the cost of doing business in these states. Economic strains on states and municipalities could result in downgrades or defaults of certain municipal obligations. In response to economic conditions, the United States federal government and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken action and may take additional actions to address such conditions. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions or future actions will have on the financial markets, economic conditions or our Company. In addition, government spending and monetary policies or other factors may cause the rate of inflation to increase in the future. Inflation can have a significant negative impact on property and casualty insurers because premium rates are established before the amount of losses and loss expenses are known. When establishing rates, we attempt to anticipate increases from inflation subject to the limitations of modeling economic variables. Premium rates may prove to be inadequate due to low trend assumptions arising from the use of historical data. Even when general inflation is relatively modest, price inflation on the goods and services purchased by insurance companies in settling claims can steadily increase. Reserves may develop adversely and become inadequate. Retentions and deductibles may be exhausted more quickly. Interest rate increases in an inflationary environment could cause the values of our fixed income investments to decline. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may negatively affect our ability to meet unexpected liquidity needs or to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have negatively affected the availability of liquidity and credit capacity. In the event that we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, pay for capital expenditures or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be constrained and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our ability to obtain additional financing will depend on numerous factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as lenders’ perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Our access to funds may also be constrained if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions. If certain factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms. DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM Our retail agents, who are part of the independent agency distribution channel, are our sole distribution channel for our personal and business insurance segments. Our exclusive use of this distribution channel may constrain our ability to grow at a comparable pace to our competitors that utilize multiple distribution channels. In addition, consumers may prefer to purchase insurance products through alternative channels, such as through the internet, rather than through agents. We market our insurance products in our personal and business insurance segments exclusively through independent, non-exclusive insurance agents and brokers, whereas some of our competitors sell their insurance products through direct marketing techniques, the internet or “captive” insurance agents who sell products exclusively for one insurance company. Throughout its history, the State Auto Group has supported the 23 Table of Contents independent agency system as our distribution channel. However, we recognize that although the number of distribution locations has expanded, the number of independent agencies in the industry has dramatically shrunk over the past decade due to agency purchases, consolidations, bankruptcies and agent retirements. We also recognize that it will be progressively more difficult to expand the number of independent agencies representing us. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and increasing the number of agencies in our independent agency distribution system, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. The retail agents that market and sell our products also sell products of our competitors. These agents may recommend our competitors’ products over our products or may stop selling our products altogether. Our strategy of not pursuing market share at prices that are not expected to produce an underwriting profit can have the effect of making top line growth more difficult. When price competition is intense, this effect is exaggerated by the fact our independent agent distribution force has products to sell from other carriers that may be more willing to lower prices to grow top line sales. Consequently, we must remain focused on attracting and retaining productive agents to market and sell our products. We compete for productive agents primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, ease of doing business, compensation and product features. Although we make efforts to ensure we have strong relationships with our retail agents and to persuade them to promote and sell our products, we may not be successful in executing these efforts. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining these agents, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, consumers are increasingly using the internet and other alternative channels to purchase insurance products. While our website provides a significant amount of information about our insurance products, consumers cannot purchase insurance through our website. Instead, consumers must contact one of our independent agents in order to purchase any of our insurance products or make changes to their existing policies. This primary distribution system may place us at a disadvantage with consumers who prefer to purchase insurance products online or through other alternative distribution channels. REGULATION Our business is heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which we conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to stockholders and other investors, and relates to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations (see “Regulation-Dividends” in Item 1), changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. The NAIC and state insurance regulators are constantly reexamining existing laws and regulations, generally focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. From time to time, some states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. In other situations, states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that impact the competitive environment and marketplace for property and casualty insurance. Nearly all states require licensed insurers to participate in guaranty funds through assessments covering a portion of insurance claims against impaired or insolvent insurers. An increase in the magnitude of impaired companies could result in an increase in our share of such assessments. Residual market or pooling arrangements exist in many states to provide certain types of insurance coverage to those that are otherwise unable to find private insurers willing to insure them. Licensed insurers voluntarily writing such coverage are required to participate in these residual markets or pooling mechanisms. Such participation exposes the Company to possible assessments, some of which could be material to our results of operations. The potential availability of recoupments or premium rate increases, if applicable, may not offset such assessments in the financial statements nor do so in the same fiscal periods. 24 Table of Contents Many of the states in which we operate have passed or are considering legislation restricting or banning the use of credit scoring in rating and/or risk selection in personal lines of business. Similarly, several states have considered restricting insurers’ rights to use loss history information maintained in various databases by insurance support organizations. These tools help us price our products more fairly and enhance our ability to compete for business that we believe will be profitable. Such regulations would limit our ability, as well as the ability of all other insurance carriers operating in any affected jurisdiction, to take advantage of these tools. Currently the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business. However, in recent years the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to banks. In addition, changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, financial services regulation and federal taxation, or repeal of McCarran-Ferguson Act (which largely exempts the insurance industry from the federal antitrust laws), could significantly impact the insurance industry and us. The Federal Insurance Office was established in 2010 by the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Federal Insurance Office is a separate office within the United States Department of Treasury. The primary objective of the Federal Insurance Office is to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry. The Federal Insurance Office also coordinates and develops federal policy on prudential aspects of international insurance matters, including representing the United States in the International Association of Insurance Supervisors, assists in negotiating certain international agreements, monitors access to affordable insurance by traditionally underserved communities and consumers, minorities, and low- and moderate-income persons, and assists in the administration of the terrorism risk insurance program. However, the Federal Insurance Office lacks regulatory authority, and it is not clear how this federal office will coordinate and interact with the NAIC or state insurance regulators. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any enacted, proposed or future state or federal legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the regulatory requirements applicable to our business will not become more stringent in the future or result in materially higher costs than current requirements. For example, concerns over climate change may prompt federal, state or local laws intended to protect the environment. Changes in the regulation of our business may reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our operations. We could be adversely affected if our controls designed to assure compliance with guidelines, policies, and legal and regulatory standards are ineffective. Our business is dependent on our ability to regularly engage in a large number of insurance underwriting, claim processing, personnel and human resources, and investment activities, many of which are complex. These activities often are subject to internal guidelines and policies, as well as legal and regulatory requirements. No matter how well designed and executed, control systems provide only reasonable assurance that the system objectives will be met. If our controls are not effective, it could lead to financial loss, unexpected risk exposures or damage to our reputation. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. 25 Table of Contents CLAIM AND COVERAGE DEVELOPMENTS Developing claim and coverage issues in our industry are uncertain and may adversely affect our insurance operations. As industry practices and legislative, judicial and regulatory conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may develop. These issues could have an adverse effect on our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the frequency or severity of claims. The premiums we charge for our insurance products are based upon certain risk expectations. When legislative, judicial or regulatory authorities expand the burden of risk beyond our expectations, the premiums we previously charged or collected may no longer be sufficient to cover the risk, and we do not have the ability to retroactively modify premium amounts. Furthermore, our reserve estimates do not take into consideration a major retroactive expansion of coverage through legislative or regulatory actions or judicial interpretations. In particular, court decisions have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant impact on the property and casualty insurance industry. Court decisions may increase the level of risk which insurers are expected to assume in a number of ways, such as by eliminating exclusions, increasing limits of coverage, creating rights in claimants not intended by the insurer and interpreting applicable statutes expansively to create obligations on insurers not originally considered when the statute was passed. In some cases, court decisions have been applied retroactively. Court decisions have also negated legal reforms passed by state legislatures. There is also a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in purported class action litigation relating to claim-handling and other practices, particularly with respect to the handling of personal lines auto and homeowners claims. There are concerns that the focus on climate change and global warming could affect court decisions or result in litigation, including potential matters arising from federal, state or local laws intended to protect the environment. Many of these issues are beyond our control. The effects of these and other unforeseen claims and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could materially harm our business and results of operations. LITIGATION We may suffer losses from litigation, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results or cash flows and financial condition. As is typical in our industry, we face risks associated with litigation of various types, including disputes relating to insurance claims under our policies, as well as other general commercial and corporate litigation. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and in the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more litigation matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and may be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period and to our financial condition. TERRORISM Terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, and ensuing events could have an adverse effect on us. Terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause loss of life, property damage, reduced economic activity, and additional disruptions to commerce. Actual terrorist attacks could cause losses from insurance claims related to the property and casualty insurance operations of the State Auto Group, as well as a decrease in our stockholders’ equity, net income and/or revenue. The Terrorism Acts require the federal government and the insurance industry to share in insured losses up to $100 billion per year resulting from certain terrorist attacks 26 Table of Contents within the United States. Under the Terrorism Acts, we must offer our commercial policyholders coverage against certified acts of terrorism. In December 2007, the United States Congress extended the Terrorism Acts through December 31, 2014, and made some modest changes to the Terrorism Acts. See “Regulation” in this Item 1 for a discussion of the Terrorism Acts. In addition, some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures. We cannot predict at this time whether and the extent to which industry sectors in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of potentially decreased commercial and economic activity, or how any such decrease might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities, or how the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. INVESTMENTS The performance of our investment portfolios is subject to investment risks. Like other property and casualty insurance companies, we depend on income from our investment portfolio for a portion of our revenues and earnings and are therefore subject to market risk, credit risk, concentration risk, liquidity risk and the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in equity, interest, commodity or foreign currency exchange rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates and equity prices. Future increases in interest rates could cause the values of our fixed income portfolios to decline, with the magnitude of the decline depending on the duration of our portfolio. Individual securities in our fixed income portfolio are subject to credit risk and default. Downgrades in the credit ratings of fixed maturities can have a significant negative effect on the market valuation of such securities. For example, budget strains on certain states and local governments could negatively affect the credit quality and ratings of their issued securities. Our fixed income portfolio includes certain securities with call features permitting them to be redeemed by the issuers prior to stated maturity. Reinvestment risk exists with such securities as it may not be possible to reinvest the proceeds from the called securities at equivalent yields. If the fixed income or equity portfolios, or both, were to be impaired by market, sector or issuer-specific conditions to a substantial degree, our liquidity, financial position and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Under these circumstances, our income from these investments could be materially reduced, and declines in the value of certain securities could further reduce our reported earnings and capital levels. A decrease in value of our investment portfolio could also put our insurance subsidiaries at risk of failing to satisfy regulatory minimum capital requirements. If we were not at that time able to supplement our subsidiaries’ capital from STFC or by issuing debt or equity securities on acceptable terms, our business could be materially adversely affected. Also, a decline in market rates of fixed income securities or a decline in the fair value of equity securities could cause the investments in our pension plans to decrease, resulting in additional expense and increasing required contributions to the pension plan. In addition, our investments are subject to risks inherent in the nation’s and world’s capital markets. The functioning of those markets, the values of the investments held by us and our ability to liquidate investments on favorable terms or short notice may be adversely affected if those markets are disrupted or otherwise affected by local, national or international events, such as power outages, system failures, wars or terrorist attacks or by recessions or depressions, a significant change in inflation expectations, a significant devaluation of governmental or private sector credit, currencies or financial markets and other factors or events. Changes in tax laws impacting marginal tax rates and/or the preferred tax treatment of municipal obligations under current law, could adversely affect the market value of municipal obligations. Since a significant portion of our investment portfolio is invested in tax-exempt municipal obligations, any such changes in tax law could adversely affect the value of the investment portfolio. Additionally, any such changes in tax law could reduce the difference between tax-exempt interest rates and taxable rates. 27 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES Our ability to attract, develop and retain talented employees, managers and executives, and to maintain appropriate staffing levels, is critical to our success. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain talented, diverse employees, including executives and other key managers in a specialized industry. Our loss of certain key officers and employees or the failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Talent management is a key consideration in our specialty insurance segment, which requires specialized product underwriting, claims handling and risk management services and involves distribution through channels other than our retail agents. In addition, we must forecast the changing business environments (for multiple business units and in many geographic markets) with reasonable accuracy and adjust hiring programs and/or employment levels accordingly. Our failure to recognize the need for such adjustments, or the failure or inability to react appropriately on a timely basis, could lead either to over-staffing (which would adversely affect our cost structure) or under-staffing (impairing our ability to execute and effectively service our ongoing and new business) in one or more business units or locations. In either event, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. ACQUISITIONS Acquisitions subject us to a number of financial and operational risks. Since going public in 1991, we and State Auto Mutual have acquired or affiliated with other insurance companies, most recently the 2009 acquisition of the Rockhill Insurance Group by State Auto Mutual. It is possible that we and State Auto Mutual will continue to pursue acquisitions or affiliations of other insurance companies in the future. Insurance company acquisitions and affiliations involving State Auto Mutual generally do not have a material financial impact on State Auto Financial unless and until the target insurers are added to our Pooling Arrangement, such as the addition of the Rockhill Insurers in 2011. Acquisitions and affiliations involve numerous risks and uncertainties, such as: • obtaining necessary regulatory approvals may prove to be more difficult than anticipated; • integrating the business may prove to be more costly than anticipated; • integrating the business without material disruption to existing operations may prove to be more difficult than anticipated; • anticipated cost savings may not be fully realized (or not realized within the anticipated time frame); • loss results of the acquired or affiliated company or business may be worse than expected; • losses may develop differently than what we expected them to; and • retaining key employees of the acquired company or business may prove to be more difficult than anticipated. In addition, other companies in the insurance industry have similar acquisition and affiliation strategies. Competition for target companies or businesses may intensify or we may not be able to complete such acquisitions or affiliations on terms and conditions acceptable to us. There is no assurance that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated. Ineffective integration may adversely affect our results and our ability to compete. Also, the acquired business may not perform as projected and anticipated cost savings and other synergies may not be realized. 28 Table of Contents CREDIT AND FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may negatively affect our business and a downgrade in our credit rating could negatively affect the cost and availability of debt financing. Insurance companies are subject to financial strength ratings produced by external rating agencies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a strong ability to pay claims. Ratings are assigned by rating agencies to insurers based upon factors that they believe are relevant to policyholders and creditors. Ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our Company and in our ability to market our products. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings could, among other things, negatively affect our ability to sell certain insurance products, our relationships with agents and our ability to compete. Although other agencies cover the property and casualty industry, we believe our ability to write business is most influenced by our rating from A.M. Best. According to A.M. Best, its ratings are designed to assess an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to policyholders. In June 2011, A.M. Best lowered the financial strength rating of the State Auto Group from A+ (Superior) to A (Excellent) with a stable outlook. A.M. Best indicated that the downgrade was based on the deterioration in the State Auto Group’s underwriting and operating earnings in recent years, driven by an increased frequency and severity of property catastrophe losses. In addition, in November 2011, Standard & Poor’s lowered its financial strength rating on the State Auto Group from A- to BBB+ and placed this rating on CreditWatch with a negative outlook (Standard & Poor’s removed this rating from CreditWatch in February 2012), and Moody’s lowered its financial strength rating on the State Auto Group from A2 to A3 with a stable outlook. Both the Standard and Poor’s and Moody’s downgrades were based generally on the same reasons as given by A.M. Best. Generally, credit ratings affect the cost, type and availability of debt financing. Higher rated securities receive more favorable pricing and terms relative to lower rated securities at the time of issue. In June 2011, A.M. Best lowered its credit rating on State Auto Financial to bbb+. In November 2011 Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s lowered their credit ratings on State Auto Financial to BB+ and Baa3, respectively. Based on future results and developments, we may not be able to maintain our current ratings. CONTROL BY OUR PARENT COMPANY Our parent company owns a significant interest in us and may exercise its control in a manner detrimental to your interests. As of December 31, 2011, our parent company owned approximately 63% of the voting power of our Company. Therefore, State Auto Mutual has the power to direct our affairs and is able to determine the outcome of substantially all matters required to be submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of all our directors. State Auto Mutual could exercise its control over us in a manner detrimental to the interests of other STFC stockholders. COMPETITION Our industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect our sales and profitability. The property and casualty insurance business is highly competitive, and we compete with a large number of other insurers. Many of our competitors have well-established national reputations, and substantially greater financial, technical and operating resources and market share than we. We may not be able to effectively compete, which could adversely affect our sales or profitability. We believe that competition in our lines of business is based primarily on price, service, commission structure, product features, financial strength ratings, producer relationships, reputation and name or brand recognition. Market developments such as the increased use of vehicle telematics and sales of usage-based auto insurance could potentially result in reduced market share or adverse selection. 29 Table of Contents Our competitors sell through various distribution channels, including independent agents, captive agents and directly to the consumer. We compete not only for personal and business insurance customers, but also for independent agents and brokers to market and sell our products. Our specialty insurance segment faces competitors attempting to sell their products through the distribution system of wholesale brokers, program administrators and other specialty sources. Some of our competitors offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or have higher claims paying ability ratings. In addition, other financial institutions are now able to offer services similar to our own as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The increased transparency that arises from information available from the use of tools such as comparative rater software, could work to our disadvantage. We may have difficulty differentiating our products or becoming among the lowest cost providers. Expense efficiencies are important to maintaining and increasing our growth and profitability. If we are unable to efficiently execute and realize future expense efficiencies, it could affect our ability to establish competitive pricing and could have a negative effect on new business growth and retention of existing policyholders. VOLATILITY OF OUR COMMON STOCK The price of our common stock could be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, some of which may not be related to our operating performance and are beyond our control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: volatility and variations in our actual or anticipated operating results or changes in the expectations of financial market analysts; investor perceptions of our Company and/or the property and casualty industry; market conditions in the insurance industry and any significant volatility in the market; and major catastrophic events. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Changes in accounting standards issued by the FASB or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The FASB, the AICPA and other accounting standard-setting bodies may periodically issue changes to, interpretations of or guidance with respect to GAAP. The adoption of such guidance may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K regarding adoption of recent accounting pronouncements, such as our adoption, effective January 1, 2012, of the updated guidance regarding the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 