Risk Factors,” could also cause fluctuations in our reported earnings. In addition, our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the anticipated results of future periods. 27 Table of Contents Credit and financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Sales of our products are dependent on reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, distribution partners and other organizations. As a result of credit and financial market conditions, these organizations may be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations or may delay payment. In addition, federal and state health authorities may reduce Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements, and private insurers may increase their scrutiny of claims. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement could reduce our product sales and revenue. We rely on third parties for several important aspects of our business, including portions of our product manufacturing, royalty revenue, clinical development of future collaboration products, conduct of clinical trials, and raw materials. Such third parties may be unable to satisfy their commitments to us due to tightening of global credit from time to time, which would adversely affect our business. Our portfolio of marketable securities is significant and subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce its value. We maintain a significant portfolio of marketable securities. Changes in the value of this portfolio could adversely affect our earnings. In particular, the value of our investments may decline due to increases in interest rates, downgrades in the corporate bonds and other securities included in our portfolio, instability in the global financial markets that reduces the liquidity of securities included in our portfolio, declines in the value of collateral underlying the mortgage and asset-backed securities included in our portfolio, and other factors. Each of these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell investments for less than our acquisition cost. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by investing in high quality securities and continuously monitoring our portfolio’s overall risk profile, the value of our investments may nevertheless decline. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2009, we had $1.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness, and we may incur additional debt in the future. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business by, among other things: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts and research and development; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. Our business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of compliance and the risk of contamination or injury. Our business and the business of several of our strategic partners, including Genentech and Elan, involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with state and federal standards, there will always be the risk of accidental contamination or injury. By law, radioactive materials may only be disposed of at state-approved facilities. We currently store radioactive materials from our California laboratory on-site because the approval of a disposal site in California for all California-based companies has been delayed indefinitely. If and when a disposal site is approved, we may incur substantial costs related to the disposal of these materials. If we were to become liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that could harm our business. Biologics manufacturing also requires permits from government agencies for water supply and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate permits, or permits for sufficient quantities of water and wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our manufacturing volumes that could harm our business. 28 Table of Contents Several aspects of our corporate governance and our collaboration agreements may discourage a third party from attempting to acquire us. Several factors might discourage a takeover attempt that could be viewed as beneficial to shareholders who wish to receive a premium for their shares from a potential bidder. For example: • we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which provides that we may not enter into a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested shareholder, unless the business combination is approved in the manner prescribed in Section 203; • our board of directors has the authority to issue, without a vote or action of shareholders, shares of preferred stock and to fix the price, rights, preferences and privileges of those shares, each of which could be superior to the rights of holders of common stock; • our collaboration agreement with Elan provides Elan with the option to buy the rights to TYSABRI if we undergo a change of control, which may limit our attractiveness to potential acquirers; • our collaboration agreement with Genentech provides that, if we undergo a change of control, within 90 days Genentech may present an offer to us to purchase our rights to RITUXAN. If a change of control were to occur in the future and Genentech were to present an offer for the RITUXAN rights, we must either accept Genentech’s offer or purchase Genentech’s rights to RITUXAN on the same terms as its offer. If Genentech presents such an offer, then they will be deemed concurrently to have exercised a right, in exchange for a royalty on net sales in the U.S. of any anti-CD20 product acquired or developed by Genentech or any anti-CD20 product that Genentech licenses from a third party that is developed under the agreement, to purchase our interest in each such product; • our directors are elected to staggered terms, which prevents the entire board from being replaced in any single year; and • advance notice is required for nomination of candidates for election as a director and for proposals to be brought before an annual meeting of shareholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents 