Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a leading national manufacturer and supplier of foam and coatings, we operate in a business environment that includes certain risks. The risks described in this section could adversely affect our sales, operating results and financial condition. Although the factors listed below are considered to be the most significant factors, they should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles which may adversely affect our business. 3 · Global Economic Conditions - The current stabilizing global economic environment described below should also be considered when reviewing each of the subsequent paragraphs setting forth the various aspects of our business, operations, and products. The inconsistent global economic recovery is causing unpredictable credit markets, irregular levels of liquidity, and rates of default and bankruptcy continue; however, increased consumer and business spending persists. Although the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company and our ability to borrow money in the credit markets and potentially to draw on our revolving credit facility or otherwise obtain financing on favorable terms. Similarly, current or potential customers and suppliers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which could lead to reduced demand for our products, reduced gross margins, and increased customer payment delays or defaults. Further, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand in a timely manner or affect our gross margins. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given certain fixed costs associated with our operations. · Restrictions in our financing agreements could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations – We are dependent upon the earnings, cash flow generated by our operations, and financing instruments in order to maintain liquidity and meet our debt service obligations. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our financing agreements and any future financing agreements could restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue our business, which may, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The provisions of our financing agreements may affect our ability to obtain future financing for and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our financing agreements could result in an event of default which could enable our lenders, subject to the terms and conditions of our financing agreements, to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay the accelerated amounts, our lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such debt. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, defaults under our other debt instruments, if any, may be triggered and our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full. See also “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” · Cost and Availability of Raw Materials - Our operating results are significantly affected by the cost of raw materials. We may not be able to fully offset the impact of force majeure events and higher raw material costs through price increases or productivity improvements. Certain raw materials are critical to our production processes, such as polyols, catalysts, and titanium dioxide. The Company has supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. However, an inability to obtain these critical raw materials at any future date would adversely impact our ability to produce products. · Retention of Key Personnel - Our success depends upon our retention of key managerial, technical, and selling personnel. The loss of the services of key personnel might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. Competition for such highly skilled employees in our industry is high, and we cannot be certain that we will be successful in recruiting or retaining such personnel. We also believe that our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our key personnel to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. If we are unable to identify, hire and integrate new employees in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results may suffer. · Acquisitions - As part of our business strategy, we regularly consider and, as appropriate, make acquisitions of technologies, products and businesses that we believe are synergistic. Our primary acquisition criterion is sales volume in our core foam and coatings competencies. Acquisitions may involve risks and could result in difficulties in integrating the operations, personnel, technologies and products of the companies acquired, some of which may result in significant charges to earnings. If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions with our existing businesses, we may not obtain the advantages that the acquisitions were intended to create, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, our ability to develop and introduce new products and the market price of our stock. In connection with acquisitions, we could experience disruption in our business or employee base, or key employees of companies that we acquire may seek employment elsewhere, including with our competitors. Furthermore, the products of companies we acquire may overlap with our products or those of our customers, creating conflicts with existing relationships or with other commitments that are detrimental to the integrated businesses. · SEC Reviews - The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings, and comprehensive reviews of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews may be initiated at any time. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and could result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. · Product Liability Claims - Our products are intended for commercial and industrial use and application by industry professionals. If any of our products are misused or applied improperly and injury results, the injured party may be able to assert a product liability claim against us although we would likely have a right of offset against the party that misused or applied the product improperly. While we carry a limited amount of product liability insurance, it may not sufficiently shield us from any potential product liability claims even with the right of offset, and any uninsured or over the limits of our insurance claims could result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. 