Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces significant risks, including the risks described below. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. We Have Had Significant Losses In Recent Periods Although we had net income of $2,396,000 for the year ended December 31, 2006, we experienced net losses of $3,308,000 and $4,858,000 for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. There can be no assurance that we will be profitable on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to generate net income from operations our business will be adversely affected and our stock price will likely decline. 7 Table of Contents We Are Involved In Major Litigation In August 2000, News America Marketing In-Store, Inc. (News America), brought suit against the Company in U.S. District Court in New York, New York. The case was settled in November 2002. The terms of the settlement agreement are confidential. The settlement did not impact the Company’s operating results. In October 2003, News America brought suit against the Company in U.S. District Court in New York, New York, alleging that the Company has engaged in deceptive acts and practices, has interfered with existing business relationships with retailers and prospective economic advantage, and has engaged in unfair competition. The suit sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief. In February 2007 the U.S. District Court in New York transferred this action to Minnesota where the claims will become part of the lawsuit the Company filed against News America and Albertson’s Inc. On September 23, 2004, the Company brought suit against News America and Albertson’s Inc. in Federal District Court in Minneapolis, Minnesota, for violations of federal and state antitrust and false advertising laws, alleging that News America has acquired and maintained monopoly power through various wrongful acts designed to harm the Company in the in-store advertising and promotion products and services market. The suit seeks injunctive relief sufficient to prevent further antitrust injury and an award of treble damages to be determined at trial for the harm caused to the Company. On June 30, 2006 the Court denied the motions of News America and Albertson’s to dismiss the suit. On September 20, 2006, the State of Minnesota through its Attorney General intervened as a co-plaintiff in the business disparagement portion of the Minnesota case. The parties are now engaged in pre-trial discovery. In December 2006 News America filed counterclaims similar to the claims in its New York action against Insignia and one of its officers. Motions to dismiss the counterclaims are pending with oral argument scheduled in mid-April 2007. Management believes that the allegations of the counterclaims are without merit. An evaluation of the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome and estimate of the potential liability cannot be rendered at this time. Management currently expects the amount of legal fees that will be incurred in connection with the ongoing lawsuit to be significant throughout 2007. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company incurred legal fees of $935,000, $1,085,000 and $2,527,000 related to the News America lawsuits and expects to continue to incur significant expenses until the litigation is concluded. Also, if we are required to pay a significant amount in settlement or damages, it will have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. In addition, a negative outcome of this litigation could affect long-term competitive aspects of our business. Continuing litigation with a retailer could also have a negative impact on our business. We Are Dependent On Our Contracts With Retailers And Our Ability To Renew Those Contracts When Their Terms Expire On an ongoing basis, we negotiate renewals of various retailer contracts. Some of our retailer contracts require us to guarantee minimum payments to our retailers. If we are unable to offer guarantees at the required levels in the new contracts, and the contracts are not renewed because of that or because of other reasons, it will have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our POPS business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the number of retailer partners decreases significantly or if the retailer partners fail to continue to provide good service including performing their duties in placing and maintaining POPSigns at the shelf in their stores and providing product movement data to us. We May Need Additional External Financing In The Future Which May Not Be Available The Company has implemented various initiatives to improve its operating performance through the reduction of cost of sales expenses, operating expenses and legal fees. Management believes it will be able to continue to fund operations through cash saved as a result of the implementation of these 8 Table of Contents initiatives. However, there can be no assurance that additional external financing will not be needed or that the Company will be able to secure such financing if and when needed. Our Results Of Operations May Be Subject To Significant Fluctuations Which May Result In A Decrease In Our Stock Price Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary in the future due to a wide variety of factors including: • the loss of contracts with retailers; • the continued impact of significant litigation on our business; • the timing of seasonal events for customers or the loss of customers; • the timing of new retail stores being added; • the timing of additional selling, marketing and general and administrative expenses; and • competitive conditions in our industry. Due to these factors, our quarterly net sales, expenses and results of operations could vary significantly in the future and this could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We Have Significant Competitors We face significant competition from other providers of at-shelf advertising or promotional signage. Some of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources that can be used to market their products. Should our competitors succeed in obtaining more of the at-shelf advertising business from our current customers, our revenues and related operations would be adversely affected. Our Results Are Dependent On The Success Of Our Insignia POPS Program Which Represents A Very Significant Part Of Our Business We are largely dependent on our POPS program, which represented approximately 88%, 84% and 83% of total net sales for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect the POPS program to continue to represent a higher percentage in fiscal 2007 and future periods. Should brand manufacturers no longer perceive value in the POPS program, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected due to our heavy dependence on this program. Our Results Are Dependent On The Level Of Spending By Branded Product Manufacturers For Advertising And Promotional Expenditures We are largely dependent on the net sales from our POPSigns, which are purchased by branded product manufacturers. Changes in economic conditions could result in reductions in advertising and promotional expenditures by branded product manufacturers. Should these reductions occur, our revenues and related results of operations would be adversely affected. Our Results Are Dependent On Our Manufacturer Partners Continuing To Achieve Sales Increases Our product manufacturer customers use our POPS program to motivate consumers to buy their branded products. Use of our POPS program has historically resulted in sales increases for that particular product. If our POPS program does not continue to result in these product sales increases, our marketing success and sales levels could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our Stock Price Has Been And May Continue To Be Volatile During 2006 our common stock has traded between $3.91 and $0.53 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to be volatile and may be significantly affected by: • the loss or addition of contracts with major retailers; • the continued impact of significant litigation on our business; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of new services by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to conditions and trends in our industry or in the industries we serve; • general market conditions; and • other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 