ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe United States economy experienced a significant recession from 2007 to 2009. Business activity across a wide range of industries and geographic regions decreased and unemployment increased significantly. The financial services industry and capital markets were adversely affected by significantly declining asset values, rising delinquencies and defaults, and restricted liquidity. Numerous financial institutions failed or required a significant amount of government assistance due to credit losses and liquidity shortages. The rate of economic recovery remains slow and unemployment has remained persistently high. The Federal Reserve Board continues to take steps to promote more robust economic growth including maintaining a historically low federal funds rate for an extended period of time and promoting low intermediate and long-term interest rates. The current effect of these actions reduces earnings by narrowing net interest margins as maturing fixed-rate loans are refinanced and cash flow from the securities portfolio are reinvested at lower current rates. The long-term effect subjects banks to future interest rate risk once rates increase to more normal levels.Adverse factors could impact BOK Financial's ability to implement its operating strategy.Although BOK Financial has developed an operating strategy which it expects to result in continuing improved financial performance, BOK Financial cannot assure that it will be successful in fulfilling this strategy or that this operating strategy will be successful. Achieving success is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond BOK Financial's direct control. Factors that may adversely affect BOK Financial's ability to implement its operating strategy include:•deterioration of BOK Financial's asset quality;•inability to control BOK Financial's noninterest expenses;•inability to increase noninterest income;•deterioration in general economic conditions, especially in BOK Financial's core markets;•inability to access capital;•decreases in net interest margins;•increases in competition;•adverse regulatory developments.Adverse regional economic developments could negatively affect BOK Financial's business.At December 31, 2012, 44% of our loan portfolio is attributed to businesses and individuals in the state of Oklahoma and 32% is attributed to businesses and individuals in the state of Texas. Poor economic conditions in Oklahoma, Texas or other markets in the southwest region may cause BOK Financial to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in BOK Financial's loan portfolio. A regional economic downturn could also adversely affect revenue from brokerage and trading activities, mortgage loan originations and other sources of fee-based revenue.7 Adverse economic factors affecting particular industries could have a negative effect on BOK Financial customers and their ability to make payments to BOK Financial.Certain industry-specific economic factors also affect BOK Financial. For example, 20% of BOK Financial's total loan portfolio at December 31, 2012 is comprised of loans to borrowers in the energy industry, which is historically a cyclical industry. Low commodity prices may adversely affect that industry and, consequently, may affect BOK Financial's business negatively. The effect of volatility in commodity prices on our customer derivatives portfolio could adversely affect our liquidity and regulatory capital. In addition, BOK Financial's loan portfolio includes commercial real estate loans. A downturn in the real estate industry in general or in certain segments of the commercial real estate industry in Oklahoma and the southwest region could also have an adverse effect on BOK Financial's operations.Adverse global economic factors could have a negative effect on BOK Financial customers and counterparties.Poor economic conditions globally, including those of the European Union, could impact BOK Financial’s customers and counterparties with which we do business. We have no direct exposure to European sovereign debt and our aggregate gross exposure to European financial institutions totaled $6.6 million at December 31, 2012. In addition, we have an aggregate gross exposure to internationally active domestic financial institutions of approximately $270 million at December 31, 2012. The financial condition of these institutions is monitored on an on-going basis. We have not identified any significant customer exposures to European sovereign debt or European financial institutions.Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect BOK Financial's business.BOK Financial's business is highly sensitive to:•the monetary policies implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, including the discount rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements, which affect BOK Financial's ability to make loans and the interest rates we may charge;•changes in prevailing interest rates, due to the dependency of the Bank on interest income;•open market operations in U.S. Government securities.A significant increase in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both BOK Financial's ability to originate new loans and BOK Financial's ability to grow. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates could result in acceleration in the payment of loans, including loans underlying BOK Financial's holdings of residential mortgage-backed securities and termination of BOK Financial's mortgage servicing rights. In addition, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, could affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income which would reduce the Company’s net interest revenue. In a low interest rate environment, the Company's ability to support net interest revenue through continued securities portfolio growth or further reduce deposit costs could be limited. An increase in market interest rates also could adversely affect the ability of BOK Financial's floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, which could adversely affect BOK Financial's business.Changes in mortgage interest rates could adversely affect mortgage banking operations as well as BOK Financial's substantial holdings of residential mortgage-backed securities and mortgage servicing rights. Our available for sale residential mortgage-backed security portfolio represents investment interests in pools of residential mortgages, composing $10 billion or 36% of total assets of the Company at December 31, 2012. Residential mortgage-backed securities are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. BOK Financial mitigates this risk somewhat by investing principally in shorter duration mortgage products, which are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. A significant decrease in interest rates has led mortgage holders to refinance the mortgages constituting the pool backing the securities, subjecting BOK Financial to a risk of prepayment and decreased return on investment due to subsequent reinvestment at lower interest rates. A significant decrease in interest rates has also accelerated premium amortization. Conversely, a significant increase in interest rates could cause mortgage holders to extend the term over which they repay their loans, which delays the Company’s opportunity to reinvest funds at higher rates.Residential mortgage-backed securities are also subject to credit risk from delinquency or default of the underlying loans. BOK Financial mitigates this risk somewhat by investing in securities issued by U.S. government agencies. Principal and interest payments on the loans underlying these securities are guaranteed by these agencies.8 The Federal Reserve Board and other government agencies have implemented policies and programs to stimulate the U.S. economy and housing market. These policies and programs have significantly reduced both primary mortgage interest rates, the rates paid by borrowers, and secondary mortgage interest rates, the rates required by investors in mortgage backed securities. They have also reduced barriers to mortgage refinancing such as insufficient home values. BOK Financial derives a substantial amount of revenue from mortgage activities, including $129 million from the production and sale of mortgage loans, $40 million from the servicing of mortgage loans and $25 million from sales of financial instruments to other mortgage lenders. These activities, as well our substantial holdings of residential mortgage backed securities and mortgage servicing rights may be adversely affected by changes in government policies and programs.In addition, as part of BOK Financial's mortgage banking business, BOK Financial has substantial holdings of mortgage servicing rights, totaling $101 million or 0.36% of total assets at December 31, 2012. The value of these rights is also very sensitive to changes in interest rates. Falling interest rates tend to increase loan prepayments, which may lead to cancellation of the related servicing rights. BOK Financial's investments and dealings in mortgage-related products increase the risk that falling interest rates could adversely affect BOK Financial's business. BOK Financial attempts to manage this risk by maintaining an active hedging program for its mortgage servicing rights. BOK Financial's hedging program has only been partially successful in recent years. The value of mortgage servicing rights may also decrease due to rising delinquency or default of the loans serviced. This risk is mitigated somewhat by adherence to underwriting standards on loans originated for sale.Market disruptions could impact BOK Financial’s funding sources.BOK Financial’s subsidiary bank may rely on other financial institutions and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka as a significant source of funds. Our ability to fund loans, manage our interest rate risk and meet other obligations depends on funds borrowed from these sources. The inability to borrow funds at market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations.Substantial competition could adversely affect BOK Financial.Banking is a competitive business. BOK Financial competes actively for loan, deposit and other financial services business in the southwest region of the United States. BOK Financial's competitors include a large number of small and large local and national banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, trust companies, broker-dealers and underwriters, as well as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to BOK Financial's. Large national financial institutions have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than BOK Financial does, which may adversely affect BOK Financial's ability to compete effectively.BOK Financial has expanded into markets outside of Oklahoma, where it competes with a large number of financial institutions that have an established customer base and greater market share than BOK Financial. BOK Financial may not be able to continue to compete successfully in these markets outside of Oklahoma. With respect to some of its services, BOK Financial competes with non-bank companies that are not subject to regulation. The absence of regulatory requirements may give non-banks a competitive advantage.Government regulations could adversely affect BOK Financial.BOK Financial and its subsidiaries are extensively regulated under both federal and state law. In particular, BOK Financial is subject to the BHCA, the National Bank Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and many other laws and regulations. In the past, BOK Financial's business has been materially affected by these regulations. For example, regulations limit BOK Financial's business to banking and related businesses, limit the location of BOK Financial's branches and offices, as well as the amount of deposits that it can hold in a particular state and have added pricing constraints to our transaction card business. Regulations may limit BOK Financial's ability to grow and expand into new markets and businesses.Additionally, under the Community Reinvestment Act, BOK Financial is required to provide services in traditionally underserved areas. BOK Financial's ability to make acquisitions and engage in new business may be limited by these requirements.Bank regulations require us to maintain specified capital ratios and proposed Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III capital rules will likely increase the levels of required capital, and to stress-test our capital under various economic scenarios. Any risk of failure to meet minimum required capital ratios would limit the growth potential of BOK Financial's business.9 Under a long-standing policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary bank. As a result of that policy, BOK Financial may be required to commit financial and other resources to its subsidiary bank in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so.The trend of increasingly extensive regulation is likely to continue and become more costly in the future. Laws, regulations or policies currently affecting BOK Financial and its subsidiaries may change. The implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act has and will continue to affect BOK Financial’s businesses, including interchange revenue, mortgage banking, derivative and trading activities on behalf of customers, consumer products and funds management. Regulatory authorities may change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations and are likely to increase their supervisory activities, including the OCC, our primary regulator, and the CFPB, our new regulator for certain designated consumer laws and regulations. Violations of laws and regulations could limit the growth potential of BOK Financial's businesses. Adverse political environment could negatively impact BOK Financial’s business.As a result of the financial crisis and related government intervention to stabilize the banking system, there have been a series of laws and related regulations proposed or enacted in an attempt to ensure the crisis is not repeated. Many of the proposed new regulations are far-reaching. The intervention by the government also impacted populist sentiment with a negative view of financial institutions. This sentiment may increase litigation risk to the Company. While the Company did not participate in the Troubled Asset Relief Program and performed well throughout the downturn, the adverse political environment could have an adverse impact on BOK Financial’s future operations. Statutory restrictions on subsidiary dividends and other distributions and debts of BOK Financial's subsidiaries could limit amounts BOK Financial's subsidiaries may pay to BOK Financial.BOK Financial is a financial holding company, and a substantial portion of BOK Financial's cash flow typically comes from dividends that BOK Financial's bank and nonbank subsidiaries pay to BOK Financial. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends BOK Financial's subsidiaries can pay to BOK Financial without regulatory approval. Management also developed, and the BOK Financial board of directors approved, an internal capital policy that is more restrictive than the regulatory capital standards. Subsidiary creditors are entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary in the event of liquidation before BOK Financial, as holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, is entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. However, if BOK Financial is a creditor of the subsidiary with recognized claims against it, BOK Financial will be in the same position as other creditors.Although publicly traded, BOK Financial's common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the NASDAQ National Market System.A relatively small fraction of BOK Financial's outstanding common stock is actively traded. The risks of low liquidity include increased volatility of the price of BOK Financial's common stock. Low liquidity may also limit holders of BOK Financial's common stock in their ability to sell or transfer BOK Financial's shares at the price, time and quantity desired.BOK Financial's principal shareholder controls a majority of BOK Financial's common stock.Mr. George B. Kaiser owns approximately 62% of the outstanding shares of BOK Financial's common stock at December 31, 2012. Mr. Kaiser is able to elect all of BOK Financial's directors and effectively control the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of BOK Financial's common shareholders. Mr. Kaiser's ability to prevent an unsolicited bid for BOK Financial or any other change in control could have an adverse effect on the market price for BOK Financial's common stock. A substantial majority of BOK Financial's directors are not officers or employees of BOK Financial or any of its affiliates. However, because of Mr. Kaiser's control over the election of BOK Financial's directors, he could change the composition of BOK Financial's Board of Directors so that it would not have a majority of outside directors.Possible future sales of shares by BOK Financial's principal shareholder could adversely affect the market price of BOK Financial's common stock.Mr. Kaiser has the right to sell shares of BOK Financial's common stock in compliance with the federal securities laws at any time, or from time to time. The federal securities laws will be the only restrictions on Mr. Kaiser's ability to sell. Because of his current control of BOK Financial, Mr. Kaiser could sell large amounts of his shares of BOK Financial's common stock by 10 causing BOK Financial to file a registration statement that would allow him to sell shares more easily. In addition, Mr. Kaiser could sell his shares of BOK Financial's common stock without registration under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Although BOK Financial can make no predictions as to the effect, if any, that such sales would have on the market price of BOK Financial's common stock, sales of substantial amounts of BOK Financial's common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect market prices. If Mr. Kaiser sells or transfers his shares of BOK Financial's common stock as a block, another person or entity could become BOK Financial's controlling shareholder.Dependence on technology increases cyber security risk.As a financial institution, we process a significant number of customer transactions and possess a significant amount of sensitive customer information. We engage certain third-party vendors to support our data processing systems. As technology advances, the ability to initiate transactions and access data has become more widely distributed among mobile phones, personal computers, automated teller machines, remote deposit capture sites and similar access points. These technological advances increase cyber security risk. While the Company maintains programs intended to prevent or limit the effects of cyber security risk, there is no assurance that unauthorized transactions or unauthorized access to customer information will not occur. The financial, reputational and regulatory impact of unauthorized transactions or unauthorized access to customer information could be significant.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.