Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in the Company’s other SEC filings, in press releases and in oral statements to shareholders and securities analysts that are not statements of historical or current facts are “forward-looking statements.” Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results or performance of the Company to be materially different from the results or performance expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “seeks” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date the statement was made. These statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. Our business faces significant risks, including the risks described below. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our Results Are Dependent on Our Manufacturing Partners’ Continued Use of Our POPS Program We are largely dependent on our POPS program, which represents approximately 93% and 94% of the total net sales for fiscal 2014 and 2013, respectively. The POPS program is sold primarily to CPG manufacturers. During fiscal 2014, two customers accounted for approximately 33% and 10% of our total net sales and during fiscal 2013, one customer accounted for approximately 31% of our total net sales. Additionally, changes in economic conditions could result in reductions in advertising and promotional expenditures by branded product manufacturers, which may result in decreased spending for the in-store advertising services we offer. Should these manufacturers no longer perceive sufficient value in the POPS program, or if our POPS program does not continue to result in product sales increases, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected due to our heavy dependence on this program. We Are Dependent on Our Contracts with Retailers and Our Ability to Renew Those Contracts When They Expire On an ongoing basis, we negotiate renewals of various retailer contracts that allow us access to place signs at shelf in their stores. Some of our retailer contracts require us to guarantee minimum payments. If we are unable to offer guarantees at the required levels in the new contracts, and the contracts are not renewed because of that reason or because of other reasons, it will have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our POPS business and results of operations could be adversely affected if the number of retailer partners decreases significantly or if the retailer partners fail to continue to maintain POPSigns at the shelf in their stores. 6 Table of Contents Our Results Are Dependent on the Success of Our Business Relationship with News America Our results depend, in part, on the success of our sales and marketing efforts as News America’s exclusive agent for signs with price into the News America network of retailers and upon our ability to successfully sell programs into this network. Additionally, if disputes with News America arise in the future regarding the operational aspects of our agreement, it could have an adverse effect on the Company. We Face Significant Competition We face significant competition from News America, who also provides at-shelf advertising and promotional signage. Although the settlement with News America resulted in a 10-year agreement through 2021 that provides us additional opportunities to compete by offering signs with price in News America’s network, we will continue to compete for advertising dollars with News America’s other at-shelf advertising and promotional signage offerings. News America has significantly greater financial resources that can be used to develop and market their products. Should our competition succeed in obtaining more of the at-shelf advertising business from our current customers, our revenues and related operations would be adversely affected. We Have Been Involved In Major Litigation We had been involved in major litigation with News America for several years. During 2011, the Company and News America entered into a settlement agreement to resolve the antitrust and false advertising lawsuit that had been outstanding for several years. Although the Company obtained a significant settlement in 2011, if future disputes with News America, or other companies arise, it could have a material adverse effect on our Company. Our Customers and Retailers May Be Susceptible To Changes in Economic Conditions Our revenues are affected by our customers’ marketing and advertising spending and our revenues and results of operations may be subject to fluctuations based upon general economic conditions. Another economic downturn may reduce demand for our products and services or depress pricing of those products and services and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Retailers may be impacted by changes in consumer spending as well, which may adversely impact our ability to renew contracts with our existing retailers as well as contract with new retailers on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. Our Results of Operations May Be Subject To Significant Fluctuations Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary in the future due to a wide variety of factors including: · the addition or loss of contracts with retailers; · the loss of customers or reduction our customers’ spending with us; · the timing of seasonal events for customers; · the timing of new retail stores being added; · costs of evaluating and developing new products; · the timing of additional selling, marketing and general and administrative expenses; and · competitive conditions in our industry. Due to these factors, our quarterly and annual net sales, expenses and results of operations could vary significantly in the future and this could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 7 Table of Contents Investment in Our Stock Could Result in Fluctuating Returns During 2014, the sale prices of our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market ranged from a low of $2.67 to a high of $4.45. We believe factors such as the fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results described above, the market’s acceptance of our services and products, the performance of our business relative to market expectations, as well as general volatility in the securities markets, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations, resulting in changes in the market prices of the stock of many companies, which may not have been directly related to the operating performance of those companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 