ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Adverse regional economic developments could negatively affect BOK Financial's business. A substantial majority of BOK Financial loans are generated in Oklahoma and other markets in the southwest region. As a result, poor economic conditions in Oklahoma or other markets in the southwest region may cause BOK Financial to incur losses associated with higher default rates and decreased collateral values in BOK Financial's loan portfolio. A regional economic downturn could also adversely affect revenue from brokerage and trading activities, mortgage loan originations and other sources of fee-based revenue. Adverse economic factors affecting particular industries could have a negative effect on BOK Financial customers and their ability to make payments to BOK Financial. Certain industry-specific economic factors also affect BOK Financial. For example, a portion of BOK Financial's total loan portfolio is comprised of loans to borrowers in the energy industry, which is historically a cyclical industry. Low commodity prices may adversely affect that industry and, consequently, may affect BOK Financial's business negatively. In addition, BOK Financial's loan portfolio includes commercial real estate loans. A downturn in the real estate industry in Oklahoma and the Southwest region could also have an adverse effect on BOK Financial's operations. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect BOK Financial's business. BOK Financial's business is highly sensitive to: o the monetary policies implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, including the discount rate on bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements, which affect BOK Financial's ability to make loans and the interest rates we may charge; o changes in prevailing interest rates, due to the dependency of BOK Financial's banks on interest income; o open market operations in U.S. Government securities. Significant increase in market interest rates, or the perception that an increase may occur, could adversely affect both BOK Financial's ability to originate new loans and BOK Financial's ability to grow. Conversely, a decrease in interest rates could result in acceleration in the payment of loans, including loans underlying BOK Financial's holdings of mortgage-backed securities and termination of BOK Financial's mortgage servicing rights. In addition, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, could affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income. An increase in market interest rates also could adversely affect the ability of BOK Financial's floating-rate borrowers to meet their higher payment obligations. If this occurred, it could cause an increase in nonperforming assets and net charge-offs, which could adversely affect BOK Financial's business. BOK Financial's substantial holdings of mortgage-backed securities and mortgage servicing rights could adversely affect BOK Financial's business. BOK Financial has invested a substantial amount of its holdings in mortgage-backed securities, which are investment interests in pools of mortgages. Mortgage-backed securities are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates. BOK Financial mitigates this risk somewhat by investing principally in shorter duration mortgage products, which are less sensitive to changes in interest rates. A significant decrease in interest rates could lead mortgage holders to refinance the mortgages constituting the pool backing the securities, subjecting BOK Financial to a risk of prepayment and decreased return on investment due to subsequent reinvestment at lower interest rates. Conversely, a significant increase in interest rates could cause mortgage holders to extend the term over which they repay their loans, which delays the Company's opportunity to reinvest funds at higher rates. In addition, as part of BOK Financial's mortgage banking business, BOK Financial has substantial holdings of mortgage servicing rights. The value of these rights is also very sensitive to changes in interest rates. Falling interest rates tend to increase loan prepayments, which may lead to cancellation of the related servicing rights. BOK Financial's investments and dealings in mortgage-related products increase the risk that falling interest rates could adversely affect BOK Financial's business. BOK Financial attempts to manage this risk by maintaining an active hedging program for its mortgage servicing rights. BOK Financial's hedging program has only been partially successful in recent years. Substantial competition could adversely affect BOK Financial. Banking is a competitive business. BOK Financial competes actively for loan, deposit and other financial services business in Oklahoma, as well as in BOK Financial's other markets. BOK Financial's competitors include a large number of small and large local and national banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, trust companies, broker-dealers and underwriters, as well 5 as many financial and nonfinancial firms that offer services similar to BOK Financial's. Large national financial institutions have entered the Oklahoma market. These institutions have substantial capital, technology and marketing resources. Such large financial institutions may have greater access to capital at a lower cost than BOK Financial does, which may adversely affect BOK Financial's ability to compete effectively. BOK Financial has expanded into markets outside of Oklahoma, where it competes with a large number of financial institutions that have an established customer base and greater market share than BOK Financial. BOK Financial may not be able to continue to compete successfully in these markets outside of Oklahoma. With respect to some of its services, BOK Financial competes with non-bank companies that are not subject to regulation. The absence of regulatory requirements may give non-banks a competitive advantage. Adverse factors could impact BOK Financial's ability to implement its operating strategy. Although BOK Financial has developed an operating strategy which it expects to result in continuing improved financial performance, BOK Financial cannot assure you that it will be successful in fulfilling this strategy or that this operating strategy will be successful. Achieving success is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond BOK Financial's direct control. Factors that may adversely affect BOK Financial's ability to implement its operating strategy include: o deterioration of BOK Financial's asset quality; o inability to control BOK Financial's noninterest expenses; o inability to increase noninterest income; o deterioration in general economic conditions, especially in BOK Financial's core markets; o decreases in net interest margins; o increases in competition; o adverse regulatory developments. Banking regulations could adversely affect BOK Financial. BOK Financial and its subsidiaries are extensively regulated under both federal and state law. In particular, BOK Financial is subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and the National Bank Act. These regulations are primarily for the benefit and protection of BOK Financial's customers and not for the benefit of BOK Financial's investors. In the past, BOK Financial's business has been materially affected by these regulations. For example, regulations limit BOK Financial's business to banking and related businesses, and they limit the location of BOK Financial's branches and offices, as well as the amount of deposits that it can hold in a particular state. These regulations may limit BOK Financial's ability to grow and expand into new markets and businesses. Additionally, under the Community Reinvestment Act, BOK Financial is required to provide services in traditionally underserved areas. BOK Financial's ability to make acquisitions and engage in new business may be limited by these requirements. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 and the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and various regulations of regulatory authorities, require us to maintain specified capital ratios. Any failure to maintain required capital ratios would limit the growth potential of BOK Financial's business. Under a long-standing policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, BOK Financial may be required to commit financial and other resources to its subsidiary banks in circumstances where we might not otherwise do so. The trend toward extensive regulation is likely to continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies currently affecting us and BOK Financial's subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, BOK Financial's business may be adversely affected by any future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations. Statutory restrictions on subsidiary dividends and other distributions and debts of BOK Financial's subsidiaries could limit amounts BOK Financial's subsidiaries may pay to BOK Financial. BOK Financial is a bank holding company, and a substantial portion of BOK Financial's cash flow typically comes from dividends that BOK Financial's bank and nonbank subsidiaries pay to BOK Financial. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends BOK Financial's subsidiaries can pay to BOK Financial without regulatory approval. Management also developed, and the BOK Financial board of directors approved, an internal capital policy that is more restrictive than the 6 regulatory capital standards. In addition, if any of BOK Financial's subsidiaries liquidates, that subsidiary's creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before BOK Financial, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. If, however, BOK Financial is a creditor of the subsidiary with recognized claims against it, BOK Financial will be in the same position as other creditors. Although publicly traded, BOK Financial's common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the Nasdaq National Market System. A relatively small fraction of BOK Financial's outstanding common stock is actively traded. The risks of low liquidity include increased volatility of the price of BOK Financial's common stock. Low liquidity may also limit holders of BOK Financial's common stock in their ability to sell or transfer BOK Financial's shares at the price, time and quantity desired. BOK Financial's principal shareholder controls a majority of BOK Financial's common stock. Mr. George B. Kaiser owns a majority of the outstanding shares of BOK Financial's common stock. Mr. Kaiser is able to elect all of BOK Financial's directors and effectively control the vote on all matters submitted to a vote of BOK Financial's common shareholders. Mr. Kaiser's ability to prevent an unsolicited bid for BOK Financial or any other change in control could have an adverse effect on the market price for BOK Financial's common stock. A substantial majority of BOK Financial's directors are not officers or employees of BOK Financial or any of its affiliates. However, because of Mr. Kaiser's control over the election of BOK Financial's directors, he could change the composition of BOK Financial's Board of Directors so that it would not have a majority of outside directors. Possible future sales of shares by BOK Financial's principal shareholder could adversely affect the market price of BOK Financial's common stock. Mr. Kaiser has the right to sell shares of BOK Financial's common stock in compliance with the federal securities laws at any time, or from time to time. The federal securities laws will be the only restrictions on Mr. Kaiser's ability to sell. Because of his current control of BOK Financial, Mr. Kaiser could sell large amounts of his shares of BOK Financial's common stock by causing BOK Financial to file a registration statement that would allow him to sell shares more easily. In addition, Mr. Kaiser could sell his shares of BOK Financial's common stock without registration under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Although BOK Financial can make no predictions as to the effect, if any, that such sales would have on the market price of BOK Financial's common stock, sales of substantial amounts of BOK Financial's common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, would adversely affect market prices. If Mr. Kaiser sells or transfers his shares of BOK Financial's common stock as a block, another person or entity could become BOK Financial's controlling shareholder. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 