Risk Factors” below are not exclusive and further information concerning NTIC and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect its financial results or condition, 11 Table of Contents may emerge from time to time. NTIC assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect actual results or changes in factors or assumptions affecting such forward-looking statements. NTIC advises stockholders and investors to consult any further disclosures NTIC may make on related subjects in its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K that NTIC files with or furnishes to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are the most significant factors known to NTIC that could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or operating results. Adverse worldwide economic conditions have and may continue to adversely affect NTIC’s business, operating results and financial condition. The U.S. and other global economies have experienced adverse economic conditions that have affected all sectors of the economy, resulting in declines in economic growth and consumer confidence, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. Global credit and financial markets also have experienced disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability and rapid fluctuations in market valuations. NTIC’s business has been affected by these conditions and is likely to be affected by them in the future, and there is no certainty that recent improvements in economic conditions will continue, or that economic conditions will not deteriorate further. These uncertainties affect businesses such as NTIC’s in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan its future business activities. For example, the ability of NTIC’s customers to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase NTIC’s products has been and may continue to be impaired. In addition, although NTIC maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers, distributors and joint ventures to make required payments and such losses historically have been within NTIC’s expectations and the provisions established, NTIC cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same loss rates that it has in the past, especially in light of continued weaknesses in the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of NTIC’s customers, distributors or joint ventures could cause unfavorable trends in NTIC’s receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. In addition, weaknesses in the worldwide economy may adversely impact the ability of suppliers to provide NTIC with materials and components, which could adversely affect NTIC’s business and operating results. NTIC is unable to predict the prospects for a global economic recovery, but the longer the duration of such adverse and uncertain economic conditions, the greater the risks NTIC faces in operating its business. Although the automotive industry in the United States experienced a recovery in sales during fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009, continued weakness in the U.S. and global economy could lead to another downturn in automotive sales and result in decreased demand for NTIC’s ZERUST® products and adversely affect NTIC’s net sales and its other operating results. During fiscal 2010, 96.0% of NTIC’s net sales were derived from sales of NTIC’s ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting packaging products and services. A significant portion of these products and services were sold to customers in the automotive industry and to a lesser extent customers in the electronics, electrical, mechanical, military and retail consumer markets. Although the U.S. automotive industry experienced a recovery from the downturn in sales during fiscal 2009, there is no guarantee that such recovery will continue, particularly in light of the current weakness in the U.S. and global economy and the possibility of a “double-dip” recession. If another downturn in automotive sales occurs, it may result in an adverse effect on NTIC’s net sales and its other operating results. While NTIC intends to increase marketing efforts of its ZERUST® products and services to customers in other target industries, no 12 Table of Contents assurance can be provided that NTIC will be successful in doing so or will recognize increased sales from such other target markets. NTIC’s liquidity and financial position rely on the receipt of fees for services provided to its joint ventures and dividend distributions from its joint ventures. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will continue to receive such fees and dividend distributions in amounts NTIC historically has received or anticipates to receive. NTIC conducts business, either directly or indirectly, through 27 active joint venture arrangements in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Each of these joint ventures manufactures, markets and sells finished products in the geographic territory that it is assigned. NTIC’s receipt of funds as a result of sales by its joint ventures is dependent upon NTIC’s receipt of fees for services that NTIC provides to its joint ventures based primarily on the revenues of the joint ventures and NTIC’s receipt of dividend distributions from the joint ventures based on the profitability of the joint ventures. NTIC’s liquidity and financial position rely on NTIC’s receipt of fees for services that NTIC provides to its joint ventures and dividend distributions from its joint ventures. During fiscal 2010, NTIC received $4,690,450 in fees and $840,996 in dividend distributions from its joint ventures. During fiscal 2009, NTIC received $3,378,193 in fees and $2,589,887 in dividend distributions from its joint ventures. Because NTIC typically owns only 50% or less of each of its joint venture entities, NTIC does not control the decisions of these entities regarding whether to pay dividends and, if paid, how much they should be in any given year. Thus, NTIC cannot guarantee that any of its joint ventures will pay dividends in any given year. The failure of NTIC’s joint ventures to declare dividends or the failure to receive fees for services in amounts typically expected by NTIC could adversely affect NTIC’s liquidity and financial position. NTIC has invested and intends to invest additional research and development and marketing efforts and resources into its new businesses, such as the application of its corrosion prevention technology into the oil and gas industry, its Natur-Tec® bioplastics products and its plastic recycling technology. No assurance can be provided, however, that NTIC’s investments in such new businesses will be successful and result in additional revenue. In an effort to increase net sales, NTIC has expanded the marketing of its corrosion prevention solution products into the oil and gas industry, and expanded its product lines to include other products, such as biodegradable and compostable plastics and plastic recycling technology. The majority of NTIC’s research and development expense in fiscal 2010 was spent in connection with research and development activities related to its new businesses. NTIC expects to continue to invest additional research and development and marketing efforts and resources into these businesses. No assurance can be provided, however, that such efforts and investments into these new businesses will be successful or that NTIC will be successful in obtaining additional revenue from these new businesses. NTIC’s new businesses may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. In addition, any equity financings may be dilutive to NTIC’s stockholders. The expansion of NTIC’s corrosion prevention solution products into the oil and gas industry, and the expansion of NTIC’s product lines to include other products, such as biodegradable and compostable plastics and plastic recycling technology, will continue to require significant resources during fiscal 2011 and beyond. To the extent that NTIC’s existing capital, including amounts available under its demand line of credit or other then existing financing arrangements, is insufficient to meet these requirements, NTIC may raise additional capital through financings or additional borrowings. Any equity or debt 13 Table of Contents financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to NTIC and any equity financings could result in dilution to NTIC’s stockholders. NTIC’s new businesses are risky and may not prove to be successful, which could harm NTIC’s operating results and financial condition. NTIC is undertaking the expansion of its corrosion prevention solution products into the oil and gas industry and the expansion of its products lines to include others products, such as biodegradable and compostable plastics and plastic recycling technology, either directly or through joint ventures. Such new businesses are risky and subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including: · the absence of a significant operating history; · the lack of commercialized products; · the lack of market acceptance of new products; · expected substantial and continual losses for such businesses for the foreseeable future; · the lack of manufacturing experience and limited marketing experience; · an expected reliance on third parties for the manufacture and commercialization of some of the proposed products; · a competitive environment characterized by numerous, well-established and well-capitalized competitors; · insufficient capital and other resources; and · reliance on key personnel. For example, with respect to NTIC’s bio-plastics business marketed under the Natur-Tec® brand, NTIC anticipated greater demand for its Natur-Tec® products than it experienced during the past couple of fiscal years. Accordingly, NTIC had been unable to sell its Natur-Tec® inventory at the times and prices and in the volumes that NTIC initially anticipated. As a result, NTIC recorded a $360,577 write-down of its Natur-Tec® inventory during fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 to its market value, which adversely affected NTIC’s cost of goods sold for fiscal 2010. The Natur-Tec® raw material and finished goods inventory was purchased and manufactured previously when the base resins were significantly more expensive. As of August 31, 2010, $1,191,055 of Natur-Tec® inventory remained on NTIC’s consolidated balance sheet. If NTIC is unable to sell its remaining Natur-Tec® inventory at the times and prices and in the volumes at which it currently anticipates, future additional write-downs may be necessary, which would again adversely affect NTIC’s cost of goods sold. Disruptions in the global financial markets could impact the ability of NTIC’s counterparties and others to perform their obligations to NTIC and NTIC’s ability to obtain any additional future financing if needed or desired. Disruptions in the global financial markets, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and other governments and the related liquidity crisis, have disrupted the credit and capital markets. NTIC’s credit 14 Table of Contents risk consists of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, trade receivables, lending commitments and insurance relationships in the ordinary course of business. NTIC places cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments with high quality financial institutions, which NTIC monitors regularly and takes action where possible to mitigate risk. NTIC does not hold investments in auction rate securities, mortgage backed securities, collateralized debt obligations, individual corporate bonds, special investment vehicles or any other investments which have been directly impacted by the worldwide financial crisis. NTIC’s insurance programs are with carriers that remain highly rated and NTIC has no significant pending claims. However, disruptions in the credit and capital markets could cause NTIC’s counterparties and others to breach their obligations or commitments to NTIC under NTIC’s contracts with them. To date, NTIC’s demand line of credit with PNC Bank remains available to NTIC. However, in the event NTIC needed or desired additional financing, NTIC may be unable to obtain it by borrowing money in the credit markets and/or raising money in the capital markets. A significant portion of NTIC’s earnings is the result of NTIC’s income from its international joint ventures. NTIC’s international business conducted primarily through its joint ventures requires management attention and financial resources and exposes NTIC to difficulties and risks presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business factors. NTIC sells products and services directly and via a network of joint ventures, independent distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and agents in over 55 countries, including countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. One of NTIC’s strategic objectives is the continued expansion of its international operations. The expansion of NTIC’s existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require management attention and financial resources. The sale and shipping of products and services across international borders subject NTIC to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and exposes NTIC to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact NTIC include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, laws restricting business with suspected terrorists and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact NTIC in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of NTIC’s shipping and sales activities. Many of the countries in which NTIC sells its products directly or indirectly through its joint ventures, distributors, representatives and agents are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. NTIC’s international operations expose NTIC and its joint venture partners, distributors, representatives and agents to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and the required infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting and information technology; · the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations, new trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors, the imposition of costly and lengthy export licensing requirements and changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; 15 Table of Contents · the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom NTIC does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; · pricing pressure that NTIC or its joint ventures, distributors, representatives and agents may experience internationally; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; · difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; · multiple, changing and often inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations; and · the potential payment of U.S. income taxes on certain earnings of joint ventures upon repatriation. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject NTIC to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm its reputation and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. NTIC is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, which generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefits. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of “off books” slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. NTIC also is subject to similar anticorruption legislation implemented in Europe under the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions. NTIC and its joint ventures, distributors, independent representatives and agents operate in a number of jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential violations of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, based on measurements such as Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index, and NTIC utilizes a number of joint ventures, distributors, independent representatives and agents for whose actions NTIC could be held liable under the FCPA. NTIC informs its personnel, joint ventures, distributors, independent representatives and agents of the requirements of the FCPA and other anticorruption laws, including, but not limited to their reporting requirements. NTIC also has developed and will continue to develop and implement systems for formalizing contracting processes, performing due diligence on agents and improving its recordkeeping and auditing practices regarding these regulations. However, there is no guarantee that NTIC’s employees, joint ventures, distributors, independent representatives or other agents have not or will not engage in conduct undetected by NTIC’s processes and for which NTIC might be held responsible under the FCPA or other anticorruption laws. If NTIC’s employees, joint ventures, distributors, third-party sales representatives or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, NTIC could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to its procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions. The 16 Table of Contents Securities and Exchange Commission is currently in the midst of conducting an informal investigation of numerous companies over potential violations of the FCPA. Although NTIC does not believe it is currently a target, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA or other anticorruption laws by U.S. or foreign authorities also could have an adverse impact on NTIC’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain private and foreign companies, including some of NTIC’s competitors, are not subject to prohibitions as strict as those under the FCPA or, even if subjected to strict prohibitions, such prohibitions may be laxly enforced in practice. If NTIC’s competitors engage in corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft or other fraudulent practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies or from government officials, giving NTIC’s competitors an advantage in securing business and which would put NTIC at a disadvantage. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in NTIC’s earnings (if any) and changes in NTIC’s foreign currency translation adjustments. Because the functional currency of NTIC’s foreign operations and investments in its foreign joint ventures is the applicable local currency, NTIC is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. NTIC’s principal exchange rate exposure is with the Euro, the Japanese yen, Indian Rupee, Chinese yuan, Korean won and the English pound against the U.S. dollar. NTIC’s fees for services provided to its joint ventures and dividend distributions from these foreign entities are paid in foreign currencies and thus fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in NTIC’s earnings (if any). Since NTIC’s investments in its joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, any changes in foreign currency exchange rates would be reflected as a foreign currency translation adjustment and would not change NTIC’s equity in income of joint ventures reflected in its consolidated statements of operations. NTIC does not hedge against its foreign currency exchange rate risk. NTIC breached a financial covenant under the note governing its term loan obtained in connection with the purchase of its corporate headquarters and as a result the bank could demand the entire amount outstanding under the note immediately due and payable in full, which could have a material adverse effect on NTIC’s financial position and liquidity. NTIC has certain covenants related to its term loan with PNC Bank. For example, NTIC is subject to a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.0:1.0. Under such covenant, NTIC shall not, as of the last day of any fiscal year, suffer or permit the ratio of the aggregate of (a) its net income for that period, plus (b) its interest expense for that period, plus (c) its federal, state, and local income taxes, if any, for that period, plus (d) its depreciation and amortization charges for that period to the aggregate of (i) its interest expense for that period, plus (ii) its unfunded investments (net after trade-ins, if any) in fixed and capital assets and leasehold improvements during that period, plus (iii) all dividends/withdrawals (other than any made to one or more other members of its reporting group) paid by members of its reporting group during that period, plus (iv) an amount equal to the aggregate of all payments required to be made on all indebtedness for borrowed money, purchase money indebtedness and with respect to capitalized lease obligations by members of its reporting group during the period of 12 consecutive months next succeeding the fiscal year in question to be less than 1.0:1.0. At August 31, 2009 and 2010, NTIC failed to meet this financial covenant. Although PNC Bank waived the covenant violation as of August 31, 2009, NTIC has not sought and/or obtained a waiver of any subsequent covenant violations from the bank. As a result, an event of default occurred under the note and the bank has the right in its discretion, by giving written notice to NTIC, to declare the amount outstanding under the note immediately due and payable in full. As a result, NTIC classified all amounts outstanding with the bank as current liabilities on NTIC’s consolidated balance sheets. 17 Table of Contents NTIC’s compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and any changes in such principles might adversely affect NTIC’s operating results and financial condition. Any requirement to consolidate NTIC’s joint ventures or subject them to compliance with the internal control provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results and financial condition. If there were a change in accounting rules and NTIC were required to fully consolidate its joint ventures or if NTIC’s joint ventures otherwise would be required to be consolidated with NTIC to be in compliance with the internal control provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, NTIC and the individual joint venture would incur significant additional costs. In addition, other accounting pronouncements issued in the future could have a material cost associated with NTIC’s implementation of such new accounting pronouncements. NTIC’s business, properties and products are subject to governmental regulation and taxes, compliance with which may require NTIC to incur expenses or modify its products or operations, and which may expose NTIC to penalties for non-compliance. Governmental regulation also may adversely affect the demand for some of NTIC’s products and its operating results. NTIC’s business, properties and products are subject to a wide variety of international, federal, state and local laws, rules, taxes and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources, and worker health and safety and the use, management, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes and other regulated materials. These laws, rules and regulations may affect the way NTIC conducts its operations, and the failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. Because NTIC owns and operates real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on NTIC for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on NTIC’s property, including releases unknown to NTIC. These environmental laws and regulations also could require NTIC to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where NTIC disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. NTIC’s future costs of complying with the various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect NTIC’s financial condition and operating results. NTIC is also subject to other international, federal and state laws, rules and regulations, the future non-compliance with which may harm NTIC’s business or may adversely affect the demand for some of its products. Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and taxation changes, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, revised tax law interpretations, also may adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. Fluctuations in NTIC’s effective tax rate could have a significant impact on NTIC’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The mix of pre-tax income or loss among the tax jurisdictions in which NTIC operates that have varying tax rates could impact NTIC’s effective tax rate. NTIC is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes, other tax liabilities, interest and penalties. Future events could change management’s assessment. NTIC operates within multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to tax audits in these jurisdictions. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve. NTIC also has made assumptions about the realization of deferred tax assets. Changes in these assumptions could result in a valuation allowance for these assets. Final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is currently reflected by NTIC’s income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, President Obama’s administration has announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect NTIC’s tax rate. 18 Table of Contents NTIC intends to grow its business through additional joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions, which could be risky and harm its business. One of NTIC’s growth strategies is to expand its business by entering into additional joint ventures and alliances and acquiring businesses, technologies and products that complement or augment NTIC’s existing products. The benefits of a joint venture, alliance or acquisition may take more time than expected to develop, and NTIC cannot guarantee that any future joint ventures, alliances or acquisitions will in fact produce the intended benefits. In addition, joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: · diversion of management’s attention; · difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of a new joint venture or acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings and revenue synergies; · potential loss of key employees or customers of the new joint venture or acquired business or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · adverse impact on overall profitability if the new joint venture or acquired business does not achieve the financial results projected in NTIC’s valuation models; · reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in NTIC’s leverage and debt service requirements to pay the joint venture capital contribution or the acquisition purchase price, which could in turn restrict NTIC’s ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of NTIC’s business strategy; · inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems and unanticipated costs associated with the new joint venture or acquisition; and · incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, occurrence of non-recurring charges and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill that could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. NTIC’s ability to grow through joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable opportunities at an acceptable cost, NTIC’s ability to compete effectively for these opportunities and the availability of capital to complete such transactions. NTIC relies on its joint ventures, distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and other agents to market and sell its products. In addition to its direct sales force, NTIC relies on its joint ventures, distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and other agents to market and sell its products in the United States and internationally. NTIC’s joint ventures, distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and other agents might terminate their relationship with NTIC, or devote insufficient sales efforts to NTIC’s products. NTIC does not control its joint ventures, distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and other agents and they may not be successful in implementing NTIC’s marketing plans. NTIC’s failure to maintain its existing relationships with these entities, or its failure to recruit and retain additional skilled joint venture partners, distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and other agents could have an adverse effect on NTIC’s operations. 19 Table of Contents NTIC has limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key employees. NTIC’s success is dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and group of employees. NTIC’s future success will depend in large part on its ability to retain its key employees and identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing and customer service personnel when needed. Competition for these individuals may be intense, especially in the markets in which NTIC operates. NTIC may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining these personnel. NTIC’s current management, other than its President and Chief Executive Officer, does not have any material stock ownership in NTIC. In addition, none of NTIC’s employees has any contractual obligation to maintain his or her employment with NTIC. The loss or interruption of services of any of NTIC’s key personnel, including in particular its technical personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, delays in hiring qualified personnel, or any employee slowdowns, strikes or similar actions could make it difficult for NTIC to manage its business and meet key objectives, which could harm NTIC’s business, financial condition and operating results. NTIC relies on its management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If these information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if NTIC experiences an interruption in their operation, NTIC’s business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of NTIC’s business is dependent on its management information systems. NTIC relies on its management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes; and to maintain its research and development data. The failure of management information systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt NTIC’s business and product development and could result in decreased sales, causing NTIC’s business and operating results to suffer. In addition, NTIC’s management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers, or power loss or computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any such interruption could adversely affect NTIC’s business and operating results. NTIC’s reliance upon patents, trademark laws, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect its intellectual property from others who may sell similar products. NTIC holds patents relating to various aspects of its products and believes that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of its products. Proprietary rights relating to NTIC’s products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. NTIC cannot be certain that it will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to NTIC or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect its technology. In the absence of patent protection, NTIC may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy NTIC’s products or gain access to its trade secrets and know-how. NTIC’s competitors may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of NTIC’s patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe NTIC’s patents. NTIC may incur substantial costs if its competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of its patents or if it initiates any proceedings to protect its proprietary rights and if the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to NTIC, its business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, NTIC relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that it seeks to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, and consultants. These agreements may be breached and NTIC may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, NTIC’s trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. 20 Table of Contents If NTIC is unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance, NTIC may experience a decrease in demand for its products, and its business could suffer. One of NTIC’s strategies is to enhance its existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs. NTIC may not be able to compete effectively with its competitors unless NTIC can keep up with existing or new products in the markets in which it competes. Product development requires significant financial and other resources. Although in the past NTIC has implemented lean manufacturing and other productivity improvement initiatives to provide investment funding for new products, no assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to continue to do so in the future. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and NTIC may not be able to timely develop product improvements or new products. NTIC’s competitors’ new products may beat NTIC’s products to market, may be more effective or less expensive than NTIC’s products or render NTIC’s products obsolete. Any new products that NTIC may develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for NTIC relative to its expectations, based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development. NTIC faces intense competition in almost all of its product lines, including from competitors that have substantially greater resources than NTIC does. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to compete effectively, which would harm its business and operating results. NTIC’s products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. The principal competitive factors in NTIC’s markets are pricing, product innovation, quality and reliability, product support and customer service and reputation. NTIC often competes with numerous manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than NTIC does. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than NTIC can. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. NTIC’s current products, products under development and its ability to develop new and improved products may be insufficient to enable NTIC to compete effectively with its competitors. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to compete effectively, which would harm its business and operating results. NTIC’s dependence on key suppliers puts NTIC at risk of interruptions in the availability of its products, which could reduce its net sales and adversely affect its operating results. In addition, increases in prices for raw materials and components used in NTIC’s products could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. NTIC relies on suppliers for certain raw materials and components used in its products. For reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness or availability, NTIC procures certain raw materials and components from limited source suppliers. NTIC generally acquires such raw materials and components through purchase orders placed in the ordinary course of business, and as a result NTIC does not have a significant inventory of these materials and components and does not have any guaranteed or contractual supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. NTIC’s dependence on third-party suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules, as well as manufacturing yields and costs. Suppliers of raw materials and components may decide, or be required, for reasons beyond NTIC’s control to cease supplying raw materials and components to NTIC or to raise their prices. Shortages of raw materials, quality control problems, production capacity constraints or delays by suppliers could negatively affect NTIC’s ability to meet its production obligations and result in 21 Table of Contents increased prices for affected parts. Any such shortage, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of products or components, which could adversely affect NTIC’s net sales and operating results. Increases in prices for raw materials and components used in NTIC’s products could also adversely affect its operating results. NTIC is exposed to risks relating to its evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related and other recent regulations implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, are creating challenges for publicly-held companies, including NTIC. NTIC is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, NTIC’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, NTIC’s efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding NTIC’s assessment of its internal control over financial reporting have required and will continue to require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Although NTIC’s management concluded that NTIC’s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of August 31, 2010, no assurance can be provided that NTIC’s management will reach a similar conclusion as of any later date. NTIC’s business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect NTIC’s operating results, financial condition or business. NTIC’s business is subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect NTIC’s operating results, financial condition or business, such as natural or man-made disasters or global pandemics that may result in shortages of raw materials, higher commodity costs, an increase in insurance premiums and other adverse effects on NTIC’s business; the continued threat of terrorist acts and war that may result in heightened security and higher costs for import and export shipments of components or finished goods; and the ability of NTIC’s management to adapt to unplanned events. Risks Related to NTIC’s Common Stock A large percentage of NTIC’s outstanding common stock is held by insiders, and, as a result, the trading market for NTIC’s common stock is not as liquid as the stock of other public companies. As of November 15, 2010, NTIC had 4,314,249 shares of common stock outstanding, of which 16.4% of these outstanding shares were beneficially owned by directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their respective affiliates. The stock of companies with a substantial amount of stock held by insiders is usually not as liquid as the stock of other public companies where insider ownership is not as concentrated. Thus, the trading market for shares of NTIC’s common stock may not be as liquid as the stock of other public companies. The price and trading volume of NTIC’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price and trading volume of NTIC’s common stock price has fluctuated over a wide range during the past year or so. During fiscal 2010, the sale price of NTIC’s common stock ranged from a low of $7.00 to a high of $14.36, and the daily trading volume ranged from zero shares to 62,500 shares. It is likely that the price and trading volume of NTIC’s common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. The securities of small capitalization companies, including NTIC, from time to time experience 22 Table of Contents significant price and volume fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. NTIC may become the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm NTIC’s business, financial condition, and operating results, as well as the market price of its common stock. The trading volume of NTIC’s common stock is typically very low, leaving NTIC’s common stock open to risk of high volatility. The number of shares of NTIC’s common stock being traded on a daily basis is often very low and on some trading days, there is no trading volume at all. Any stockholder wishing to sell his, her or its stock may cause a significant fluctuation in the trading price of NTIC’s common stock. In addition, low trading volume of a stock increases the possibility that, despite rules against such activity, the price of the stock may be manipulated by persons acting in their own self-interest. NTIC may not have adequate market makers and market making activity to prevent manipulation in its common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about NTIC’s business, or if they adversely change their recommendations regarding shares of NTIC’s common stock, the market price for NTIC’s common stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for NTIC’s common stock has been influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about NTIC or its business. If one or more analysts who cover NTIC downgrade NTIC’s common stock, the market price for NTIC’s common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of NTIC or fail to regularly publish reports on NTIC, NTIC could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price or trading volume for NTIC’s common stock to decline. NTIC does not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Although in the past NTIC has paid dividends on its common stock, NTIC has not done so since fiscal 2005. The payment of any future dividends will be determined by NTIC’s Board of Directors in light of conditions then existing, including NTIC’s earnings (if any), financial condition, cash requirements, restrictions in financing agreements, business conditions and other factors. NTIC’s Board of Directors currently does not anticipate paying a dividend on NTIC’s common stock in the near future, but rather intends to retain all of its earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of its business. As a result, NTIC’s stockholders will only receive a return on their investment in NTIC’s common stock if the market price of the common stock increases. One of NTIC’s principal stockholders beneficially owns a significant percentage of NTIC’s outstanding common stock and is affiliated with NTIC’s President and Chief Executive Officer and thus may be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, and could discourage or otherwise impede a transaction in which a third party wishes to purchase NTIC’s outstanding shares at a premium. As of November 15, 2010, Inter Alia Holding Company, or Inter Alia, beneficially owned approximately 14.5% of NTIC’s outstanding common stock. Inter Alia is an entity owned by G. Patrick Lynch, NTIC’s President and Chief Executive Officer and a director, as well as three other members of the Lynch family. Mr. Lynch shares voting and dispositive power of shares of NTIC’s common stock held by Inter Alia with the other owners. As a result of his share ownership through Inter Alia and his position as President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of NTIC, Mr. Lynch may be able to influence the affairs and 23 Table of Contents actions of NTIC, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Lynch and Inter Alia may differ from the interests of NTIC’s other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of NTIC, could deprive NTIC’s stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of NTIC and may negatively affect the market price of NTIC’s common stock. Transactions that could be affected by this concentration of ownership include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of NTIC’s common stock. Future sales of NTIC common stock by Inter Alia or its pledgees if Inter Alia is subject to foreclosure proceedings or margin calls could adversely affect the price of NTIC’s common stock. As of November 15, 2010, Inter Alia beneficially owned approximately 14.5% of NTIC’s outstanding common stock. After the death of Philip M. Lynch in September 2008, NTIC’s former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and a former principal shareholder of Inter Alia, NTIC learned that Mr. Philip M. Lynch shortly prior to his death had pledged all of Inter Alia’s shares of NTIC’s common stock to various banks. NTIC understands that as of November 15, 2010, 83,160 shares of NTIC’s common stock held by Inter Alia, or approximately 2.0% of NTIC’s outstanding common stock, remained subject to a pledge agreement. Depending upon the status of the various loan obligations of which the shares serve as collateral and the trading price of NTIC’s common stock, Inter Alia may experience a foreclosure or margin call that could result in the sale of Inter Alia’s pledged shares of NTIC’s common stock by Inter Alia’s pledges into the open market or otherwise. Unlike Inter Alia, such pledgees would not be subject to the volume limitations of SEC Rule 144 in effecting such sales. Such sales could have a materially adverse effect on the trading price of NTIC’s common stock. In addition, NTIC understands that in order to diversify its stock holdings Inter Alia entered into a sales plan with Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC in May 2010 in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, pursuant to which Inter Alia may sell up to 5,000 shares of NTIC’s common stock each fiscal quarter through May 31, 2013, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. There are no contractual restrictions on the ability of Inter Alia to sell shares of NTIC common stock, although sales in the public market will be subject to the volume limitations and other requirements of SEC Rule 144. Pursuant to the volume limitations of Rule 144, an affiliate of NTIC may sell shares under Rule 144 only if the shares to be sold, together with the shares sold under Rule 144 during the past three months, do not exceed the greater of 1% of NTIC’s outstanding shares or the average weekly trading volume of NTIC’s shares during the preceding four calendar weeks. Future sales of a significant portion of NTIC’s common stock during a short time period in the public market by Inter Alia could adversely affect the market price of NTIC’s common stock. Any adverse effect on the market price of NTIC common stock could make it difficult for NTIC to raise additional capital through sales of equity securities at a time and at a price NTIC’s Board of Directors deems appropriate. Future equity issuances by NTIC may have dilutive and other effects on NTIC’s existing stockholders. As of November 15, 2010 there were 4,314,249 shares of NTIC’s common stock outstanding, and in addition, security holders held options, which, if vested and exercised, would obligate NTIC to issue up to 217,806 additional shares of common stock. It is expected that such shares, when NTIC issues them upon exercise, will be available for immediate resale in the public market. The market price of NTIC’s common stock could fall as a result of sales of these shares of common stock due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. In addition, NTIC has a shelf registration statement, which subject to certain limitations, permits NTIC to sell up to a total of approximately $50,000,000 of its securities, some or all of which may be shares of NTIC’s common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of NTIC’s common stock, and all of which would be available for resale in the 24 Table of Contents public market. Any issuances by NTIC of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of NTIC’s common stock and may have a dilutive impact on NTIC’s existing stockholders. These issuances or other dilutive issuances also would cause NTIC’s net income per share, if any, to decrease in future periods. As a result, the market price of NTIC’s common stock could decrease. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS This Item 1B is inapplicable to NTIC as a smaller reporting company. 