Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are the most significant factors known to NTIC that could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or operating results. Current worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect NTIC’s business, operating results and financial condition, as well as further decrease its stock price. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. NTIC’s business is not immune. NTIC believes the current worldwide economic crisis has resulted and may continue to result in a further decline in automobile and truck sales, which will likely result in decreased demand for NTIC’s ZERUST® products from its automotive customers. In addition, demand for ZERUST® products from NTIC’s other customers in other industries adversely affected by the current economic crisis, such as the customers in the electronics and retail consumer industries, may also decrease. The worldwide economic crisis also may have other adverse implications on NTIC’s business. For example, the ability of NTIC’s 11 Table of Contents customers to borrow money from their existing lenders or to obtain credit from other sources to purchase NTIC’s products may be impaired. Although NTIC maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments and such losses have historically been within NTIC’s expectations and the provisions established, NTIC cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience the same loss rates that it has in the past, especially given the current turmoil in the worldwide economy. A significant change in the liquidity or financial condition of NTIC’s customers could cause unfavorable trends in NTIC’s receivable collections and additional allowances may be required, which could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. In addition, the worldwide economic crisis may adversely impact the ability of suppliers to provide NTIC with materials and components, which could adversely affect NTIC’s business and operating results. Like many other stocks, NTIC’s stock price has decreased recently and if investors have concerns that NTIC’s business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn, NTIC’s stock price could further decrease. The automotive industry in the United States has experienced a significant downturn in recent years thus resulting in decreased demand for NTIC’s ZERUST® products in the United States, which has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect NTIC’s net sales from North American operations and net income. During the fiscal year ended August 31, 2008, almost 95% of NTIC’s consolidated net sales were derived from the sales of ZERUST® rust and corrosion inhibiting packaging products and services. Most of these products and services were sold to customers in the automotive industry and to a lesser extent to customers in the electronics, electrical, mechanical, military and retail consumer markets. The automotive industry in the United States has experienced a significant downturn in recent years, especially recently as a result of the current economic crisis, and is not expected to improve in the foreseeable future, which may result in a continued adverse effect on NTIC’s net sales from North American operations and net income. While NTIC intends to increase marketing efforts of its ZERUST® products and services to customers in other target industries, no assurance can be provided that NTIC will be successful in doing so or will recognize increased sales from such new target markets. NTIC’s liquidity and financial position rely on the receipt of fees for technical and other support services and dividend distributions from its corporate joint ventures. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will continue to receive such fees and dividend distributions in amounts NTIC historically has received. NTIC conducts business, either directly or indirectly through holding companies, in 29 corporate joint venture arrangements in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. Each of these joint ventures manufactures, markets and sells finished products in the geographic territory that it is assigned. NTIC’s international business has expanded significantly during the past several fiscal years. Total net sales of all of NTIC’s joint ventures increased 25.7% to $101,279,532 during fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. However, NTIC’s receipt of funds as a result of sales by its joint ventures is dependent upon NTIC’s receipt of fees for technical and other support services that NTIC provides to its joint ventures based on the revenues of the joint ventures and NTIC’s receipt of dividend distributions from the joint ventures. As a result of the increase in total net sales of NTIC’s joint ventures, NTIC’s fee income for technical and support services increased 19.7% to $5,956,403 in fiscal 2008 as compared to fiscal 2007. No assurance can be provided that NTIC’s international business as conducted through its corporate joint ventures will continue to expand or be successful in the future. NTIC’s liquidity and financial position rely on NTIC’s receipt of fee income for technical and support services and dividend distributions from its corporate joint ventures. During fiscal 2008, NTIC received approximately $1,983,316 in dividends received from its corporate joint ventures. Because NTIC typically owns only 50% or less of its joint venture entities, NTIC does not control the decisions of these entities regarding 12 Table of Contents whether to pay dividends and how much in dividends should be paid in any given year. Thus, NTIC cannot guarantee that any of its joint ventures will pay dividends in any given year. The failure of NTIC’s joint ventures to declare dividends or the failure of NTIC to receive fees for technical and other support services in amounts typically expected by NTIC could adversely affect NTIC’s liquidity and financial position. NTIC intends to invest additional research and development and marketing efforts and resources to expand its existing product lines and the distribution of its products into new target markets, such as the oil and gas industry. No assurance can be provided, however, that NTIC’s investments in such new products and markets will be successful and result in additional revenue. In an effort to increase net sales, NTIC is expanding its corrosion prevention solution products into new markets, such as the oil and gas industry, and expanding its product lines to include other products, such as additional biodegradable and compostable plastics and plastic recycling technology. During fiscal 2009, NTIC expects to invest additional research and development and marketing efforts and resources into these new product lines and markets. No assurance can be provided that such efforts and investments into NTIC’s new businesses will be successful or that NTIC will be successful in obtaining additional revenue. NTIC’s emerging new businesses may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available or may be available only on unfavorable terms. In addition, any equity financings may be dilutive to NTIC’s stockholders. The expansion of NTIC’s corrosion prevention solution products into new markets, such as the oil and gas industry, and the expansion of NTIC’s product lines to include other products, such as additional biodegradable and compostable plastics and plastic recycling technology will require significant resources during fiscal 2009 and beyond. To the extent that NTIC’s existing capital, including amounts available under its demand line of credit or other then existing financing arrangements, is insufficient to meet these requirements, NTIC may raise additional capital through financings or additional borrowings. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to NTIC. Equity financings could result in dilution to NTIC’s stockholders, and the securities issued in any future financings may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of NTIC’s common stock. NTIC’s emerging new businesses are risky and may not prove to be successful, which could harm NTIC’s operating results and financial condition. NTIC is undertaking its emerging new businesses either directly or through joint ventures. Such new businesses are risky and subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business enterprise, including: · the absence of an operating history; · the lack of commercialized products; · the lack of market acceptance of new products; · expected substantial and continual losses for such businesses for the foreseeable future; · the lack of manufacturing experience and limited marketing experience; · an expected reliance on third parties for the commercialization of some of the proposed products; 13 Table of Contents · a competitive environment characterized by numerous, well-established and well-capitalized competitors; · insufficient capital and other resources; and · reliance on key personnel. A significant portion of NTIC’s earnings is the result of NTIC’s income from its international corporate joint ventures and holding companies. NTIC’s international business conducted through its corporate joint ventures and holding companies requires management attention and financial resources and exposes NTIC to difficulties and risks presented by international economic, political, legal, accounting and business factors. NTIC sells products and technical services directly and via a network of independent distributors, manufacturers’ representatives and joint ventures in over 50 countries, including countries in North America, South America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East. One of NTIC’s strategic objectives is the continued expansion of its international operations. During the past three fiscal years, NTIC has entered into joint ventures in Indonesia, the Ukraine, Thailand and the United Arab Emirates. The expansion of NTIC’s existing international operations and entry into additional international markets require management attention and financial resources. The sale and shipping of products and services across international borders subject NTIC to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations. Compliance with such regulations is costly and exposes NTIC to penalties for non-compliance. Other laws and regulations that can significantly impact NTIC include various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, laws restricting business with suspected terrorists and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could impact NTIC in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments and restrictions on certain business activities. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of NTIC’s shipping and sales activities. Many of the countries in which NTIC sells its products directly or indirectly through its corporate joint ventures, are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. NTIC’s international operations expose NTIC and its joint venture partners, representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and the required infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting, information technology; · the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations, new trade restrictions and restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors, the imposition of costly and lengthy export licensing requirements and changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; · the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom NTIC does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; · pricing pressure that NTIC or its corporate joint ventures may experience internationally; 14 Table of Contents · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · longer payment cycles and difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; · difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and · multiple, changing and often inconsistent enforcement of laws and regulations. No assurance can be provided that one or more of the factors listed above will not harm its business. Any material decrease in NTIC’s international sales could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in NTIC’s reported net income and changes in NTIC’s foreign currency translation adjustments. Because the functional currency of NTIC’s foreign operations and investments in its foreign corporate joint ventures and holding companies is the applicable local currency, NTIC is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. NTIC’s principal exchange rate exposure is with the Euro, the Japanese yen, Korean won and the English pound against the U.S. dollar. NTIC’s fees for technical support and other services and dividend distributions from these foreign entities are paid in foreign currencies and thus fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could result in declines in NTIC’s reported net income. Since NTIC’s investments in its corporate joint ventures and holding companies are accounted for using the equity method, any changes in foreign currency exchange rates would be reflected as a foreign currency translation adjustment and would not change NTIC’s equity in income of joint ventures and holding companies reflected in its consolidated statements of income. NTIC does not hedge against its foreign currency exchange rate risk. NTIC’s compliance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and any changes in such principles might adversely affect NTIC’s operating results and financial condition. Any requirement to consolidate NTIC’s corporate joint ventures or subject them to compliance with the internal control provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results and financial condition. NTIC adopted accounting policy FASB Interpretation No. 46R (FIN 46R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, a revision of FIN 46” effective as of May 31, 2005. As a result of FIN 46R, NTIC consolidated React-NTI LLC, one of its corporate joint ventures that is 75% owned by NTIC. If the interpretation of FIN 46R were to change and NTIC were required to fully consolidate its remaining corporate joint ventures or if NTIC’s corporate joint ventures otherwise would be required to be in compliance with the internal control provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, NTIC would incur significant additional costs. NTIC estimates that the costs for each of its corporate joint ventures to become Sarbanes-Oxley compliant would range between $150,000 to $500,000 and that annual maintenance expenses would range from $50,000 to $100,000 per year per corporate joint venture thereafter. In addition, other accounting pronouncements issued in the future could have a material cost associated with NTIC’s implementation of such new accounting pronouncements. 15 Table of Contents NTIC’s business, properties and products are subject to governmental regulation and taxes, compliance with which may require NTIC to incur expenses or modify its products or operations, and which may expose NTIC to penalties for non-compliance. Governmental regulation may also adversely affect the demand for some of NTIC’s products and NTIC’s operating results. NTIC’s business, properties and products are subject to a wide variety of international, federal, state and local laws, rules, taxes and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources, and worker health and safety and the use, management, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes and other regulated materials. These laws, rules and regulations may affect the way NTIC conducts its operations, and the failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. Because NTIC owns and operates real property, various environmental laws also may impose liability on NTIC for the costs of cleaning up and responding to hazardous substances that may have been released on NTIC’s property, including releases unknown to NTIC. These environmental laws and regulations also could require NTIC to pay for environmental remediation and response costs at third-party locations where NTIC disposed of or recycled hazardous substances. NTIC’s future costs of complying with the various environmental requirements, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect NTIC’s financial condition and operating results. NTIC is also subject to other international, federal and state laws, rules and regulations, the future non-compliance with which may harm NTIC’s business or may adversely affect the demand for some of its products. Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and taxation changes, including tax rate changes, new tax laws, revised tax law interpretations, also may adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. NTIC intends to grow its business through additional joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions, which could be risky and harm its business. One of NTIC’s growth strategies is to expand its business by entering into additional joint ventures and alliances and acquiring businesses, technologies and products that complement or augment NTIC’s existing products. The benefits of a joint venture, alliance or acquisition may take more time than expected to develop, and NTIC cannot guarantee that any future joint ventures, alliances or acquisitions will in fact produce the intended benefits. In addition, joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: · diversion of management’s attention; · difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of a new joint venture or acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies, cost savings and revenue synergies; · potential loss of key employees or customers of the new joint venture or acquired business or adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · adverse impact on overall profitability if the new joint venture or acquired business does not achieve the financial results projected in NTIC’s valuation models; · reallocation of amounts of capital from other operating initiatives and/or an increase in NTIC’s leverage and debt service requirements to pay the joint venture capital contribution or the acquisition purchase price, which could in turn restrict NTIC’s ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of NTIC’s business strategy; · inaccurate assessment of undisclosed, contingent or other liabilities or problems and unanticipated costs associated with the new joint venture or acquisition; and · incorrect estimates made in the accounting for acquisitions, occurrence of non-recurring charges and write-off of significant amounts of goodwill that could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. 16 Table of Contents NTIC’s ability to grow through joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions will depend, in part, on the availability of suitable opportunities at an acceptable cost, NTIC’s ability to compete effectively for these opportunities and the availability of capital to complete such transactions. NTIC relies on its independent distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and corporate joint ventures to market and sell its products. In addition to its direct sales force, NTIC relies on its independent distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and corporate joint ventures to market and sell its products in the United States and internationally. NTIC’s independent distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and joint venture partners might terminate their relationship with NTIC, or devote insufficient sales efforts to NTIC’s products. NTIC does not control its independent distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and joint ventures and they may not be successful in implementing NTIC’s marketing plans. NTIC’s failure to maintain its existing relationships with its independent distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and joint ventures, or its failure to recruit and retain additional skilled independent distributors, manufacturer’s sales representatives and joint venture partners could have an adverse effect on NTIC’s operations. NTIC has very limited staffing and will continue to be dependent upon key employees. NTIC’s success is dependent upon the efforts of a small management team and staff. NTIC’s future success will depend in large part on its ability to retain these individuals and identify, attract and retain other highly qualified managerial, technical, sales and marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these individuals is intense, especially in the markets in which NTIC operates. NTIC may not succeed in identifying, attracting and retaining these personnel. NTIC’s current management, other than NTIC’s President and Chief Executive Officer, does not have any material stock ownership in NTIC or any contractual obligation to maintain their employment with NTIC. The loss or interruption of services of any of NTIC’s key personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future, delays in hiring qualified personnel, or any employee slowdowns, strikes or similar actions could make it difficult for NTIC to manage its business and meet key objectives, which could harm NTIC’s business, financial condition and operating results. NTIC relies on its management information systems for inventory management, distribution and other functions. If these information systems fail to adequately perform these functions or if NTIC experiences an interruption in their operation, NTIC’s business and operating results could be adversely affected. The efficient operation of NTIC’s business is dependent on its management information systems. NTIC relies on its management information systems to effectively manage accounting and financial functions; manage order entry, order fulfillment and inventory replenishment processes; and to maintain its research and development data. The failure of management information systems to perform as anticipated could disrupt NTIC’s business and product development and could result in decreased sales, causing NTIC’s business and operating results to suffer. In addition, NTIC’s management information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or man-made disasters, terrorist attacks and attacks by computer viruses or hackers, or power loss or computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any such interruption could adversely affect NTIC’s business and operating results. 17 Table of Contents NTIC’s reliance upon patents, trademark laws, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect its proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect its intellectual property from others who may sell similar products. NTIC holds patents relating to various aspects of its products and believes that proprietary technical know-how is critical to many of its products. Proprietary rights relating to NTIC’s products are protected from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are maintained in confidence as trade secrets. NTIC cannot be certain that it will be issued any patents from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to NTIC or that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect its technology. In the absence of patent protection, NTIC may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy NTIC’s products or gain access to its trade secrets and know-how. NTIC’s competitors may initiate litigation to challenge the validity of NTIC’s patents, or they may use their resources to design comparable products that do not infringe NTIC’s patents. NTIC may incur substantial costs if its competitors initiate litigation to challenge the validity of its patents or if it initiates any proceedings to protect its proprietary rights and if the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to NTIC, its business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, NTIC relies on trade secrets and proprietary know-how that it seeks to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with its employees, and consultants. These agreements may be breached and NTIC may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Even if these confidentiality agreements are not breached, NTIC’s trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If NTIC is unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance, NTIC may experience a decrease in demand for its products, and its business could suffer. One of NTIC’s strategies is to enhance its existing products and develop and market new products that respond to customer needs. NTIC may not be able to compete effectively with its competitors unless NTIC can keep up with existing or new products in the markets in which it competes. Product development requires significant financial and other resources. Although in the past NTIC has implemented lean manufacturing and other productivity improvement initiatives to provide investment funding for new products, no assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to continue to do so in the future. Product improvements and new product introductions also require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process levels and NTIC may not be able to timely develop product improvements or new products. NTIC’s competitors’ new products may beat NTIC’s products to market, may be more effective or less expensive than NTIC’s products or render NTIC’s products obsolete. Any new products that NTIC may develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for NTIC relative to its expectations, based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development. NTIC faces intense competition in almost all of its product lines, including from competitors that have substantially greater resources than NTIC does. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to compete effectively, which would harm its business and operating results. NTIC’s products are sold in highly competitive markets throughout the world. The principal competitive factors in NTIC’s markets are pricing, product innovation, quality and reliability, product support and customer service and reputation. NTIC often competes with numerous manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial, marketing, and other resources than NTIC does. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than NTIC can. In addition, competition could increase if new companies enter the market or if existing competitors expand their product lines or intensify efforts within existing product lines. NTIC’s current products, 18 Table of Contents products under development and its ability to develop new and improved products may be insufficient to enable NTIC to compete effectively with its competitors. No assurance can be provided that NTIC will be able to compete effectively, which would harm its business and operating results. NTIC’s dependence on key suppliers puts NTIC at risk of interruptions in the availability of its products, which could reduce its net sales and adversely affect its operating results. In addition, increases in prices for raw materials and components used in NTIC’s products could adversely affect NTIC’s operating results. NTIC relies on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials and components used in its products. For reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness or availability, NTIC procures certain raw materials and components from sole and limited source suppliers. NTIC generally acquires such raw materials and components through purchase orders placed in the ordinary course of business, and as a result NTIC does not have a significant inventory of these materials and components and does not have any guaranteed or contractual supply arrangements with many of these suppliers. NTIC’s dependence on third-party suppliers involves several risks, including limited control over pricing, availability, quality and delivery schedules, as well as manufacturing yields and costs. Suppliers of raw materials and components may decide, or be required, for reasons beyond NTIC’s control to cease supplying raw materials and components to NTIC or to raise their prices. Shortages of raw materials, quality control problems, production capacity constraints or delays by suppliers could negatively affect NTIC’s ability to meet its production obligations and result in increased prices for affected parts. Any such shortage, constraint or delay may result in delays in shipments of products or components, which could adversely affect NTIC’s net sales and operating results. Increases in prices for raw materials and components used in NTIC’s products could also adversely affect its operating results. NTIC is currently involved in several litigation matters and an audit matter with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, which are costly to defend and the resolution of which could have a material adverse effect on NTIC’s operating results and financial position. NTIC is party to several litigation matters and an audit matter with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service as described in more detail in note 18 to NTIC’s consolidated financial statements. Such litigation and audit matter are costly and may adversely affect NTIC’s operating results and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of such matters may also have a material adverse effect on NTIC’s operating results and financial condition. NTIC is exposed to risks relating to its evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related and other recent regulations implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, are creating challenges for publicly-held companies, including NTIC. NTIC is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, NTIC’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, NTIC’s efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding NTIC’s assessment of its internal control over financial reporting required the expenditure of financial and managerial resources in fiscal 2008. Because NTIC’s management was required to complete an assessment of the effectiveness of NTIC’s internal controls over financial reporting in fiscal 2008 and will continue to be required to do so in future years, NTIC expects these expenditures to continue. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to NTIC’s Common Stock A large percentage of NTIC’s outstanding common stock is held by insiders, and, as a result, the trading market for NTIC’s common stock is not as liquid as the stock of other public companies. NTIC has approximately 3.7 million shares of common stock outstanding and approximately 30.7% of the shares are beneficially owned by directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and their respective affiliates. The stock of companies with a substantial amount of stock held by insiders is usually not as liquid as the stock of other public companies where insider ownership is not as concentrated. The price and trading volume of NTIC’s common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The market price and trading volume of NTIC’s common stock price has fluctuated over a wide range during the past year or so. During fiscal 2008, the sale price of NTIC’s common stock ranged from a low of $6.40 to a high of $20.85, and the daily trading volume ranged from zero shares to 373,800 shares. It is likely that the price and trading volume of NTIC’s common stock will continue to fluctuate in the future. The securities of small capitalization companies, including NTIC, from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Securities class action litigation is sometimes brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities or for other reasons. NTIC may become the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could harm NTIC’s business and financial condition, as well as the market price of its common stock. NTIC does not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Although in the past NTIC has paid dividends on its common stock, NTIC has not done so since fiscal 2005. The payment of any future dividends will be determined by NTIC’s Board of Directors in light of conditions then existing, including NTIC’s earnings, financial condition, cash requirements, restrictions in financing agreements, business conditions and other factors. The Board of Directors currently does not anticipate paying a dividend on NTIC’s common stock in the near future, but rather intends to retain all of its earnings for the foreseeable future to finance the operation and expansion of its business. As a result, NTIC’s stockholders will only receive a return on their investment in NTIC’s common stock if the market price of the common stock increases. One of NTIC’s principal stockholders beneficially owns 24.3% of NTIC’s outstanding common stock and is affiliated with NTIC’s President and Chief Executive Officer and thus may be able influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, and could discourage or otherwise impede a transaction in which a third party wishes to purchase NTIC’s outstanding shares at a premium. As of November 25, 2008, Inter Alia Holding Company beneficially owned approximately 24.3% of NTIC’s outstanding common stock. Inter Alia is an entity owned by G. Patrick Lynch, NTIC’s President and Chief Executive Officer and a director, and three other members of the Lynch family. Mr. Lynch shares voting and dispositive power of shares of NTIC’s common stock held by Inter Alia Holding Company with the other owners. As a result of his share ownership through Inter Alia and his position as President and Chief Executive Officer and a director of NTIC, Mr. Lynch may be able to influence the affairs and actions of NTIC, including matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Lynch and Inter Alia may differ from the interests of NTIC’s other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of NTIC, could deprive NTIC’s 20 Table of Contents stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale or merger of NTIC and may negatively affect the market price of NTIC’s common stock. Transactions that could be affected by this concentration of ownership include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of NTIC’s common stock. Future sales of NTIC common stock by Inter Alia Holding Company or its pledgees if Inter Alia is subject to margin calls could adversely affect NTIC’s stock price. As of November 25, 2008, Inter Alia Holding Company beneficially owned approximately 24.3% of NTIC’s outstanding common stock. After the recent death of Philip M. Lynch, NTIC’s former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and a principal shareholder of Inter Alia Holding Company, NTIC learned that Mr. Philip M. Lynch had pledged all of Inter Alia’s NTIC shares to various banks. Depending upon the trading price of NTIC’s common stock, Inter Alia may experience a margin call that could result in the sale of Inter Alia’s pledged shares of NTIC’s common stock by NTIC’s pledgees. Such sales could have an adverse effect on trading price of NTIC’s common stock. In addition, it is NTIC’s understanding that as a result of the recent death of Mr. Philip M. Lynch, Inter Alia intends to diversify its stock holdings by selling a significant portion of its NTIC stock holdings in the public market, in private negotiated transactions and otherwise. There are no contractual restrictions on the ability of Inter Alia to sell shares of NTIC common stock, although sales in the public market will be subject to the volume limitations and other requirements of SEC Rule 144. Pursuant to the volume limitations of Rule 144, an affiliate of NTIC may sell shares under Rule 144 only if the shares to be sold, together with the shares sold under Rule 144 during the past three months, do not exceed the greater of one percent of the issuer’s outstanding shares or the average weekly trading volume of the issuer’s shares during the preceding four calendar weeks. Future sales of NTIC common stock in the public market by Inter Alia could adversely affect the market price of NTIC common stock. Any adverse effect on the market price of NTIC common stock could make it difficult for NTIC to raise additional capital through sales of equity securities at a time and at a price NTIC’s Board of Directors deems appropriate. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS This Item 1B is inapplicable to NTIC as a smaller reporting company. 