ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Dependence on Continued Demand for the Company’s Existing Products A substantial portion of the Company’s business depends on the continued demand for products using our batteries sold by original equipment manufacturers (OEM). Therefore, the Company’s success depends significantly upon the success of those OEMs’ products in the marketplace. The Company sells much of its products through OEM supply agreements and contracts. While OEM agreements and contracts contain volume-based pricing based on expected volumes, industry practices dictate that pricing is rarely adjusted retroactively when contract volumes are not achieved. Every effort is made to adjust future prices accordingly, but the ability to adjust prices is generally based on market conditions. The Company is subject to many risks beyond its control that influence the success or failure of a particular product manufactured by an OEM, including: • competition faced by the OEM in its particular industry, • market acceptance of the OEM’s product, • the engineering, sales, marketing and management capabilities of the OEM, • technical challenges unrelated to our technology or products faced by the OEM in developing its products, and • the financial and other resources of the OEM For instance, in the year ended December 31, 2005, 32% of the Company’s revenues were comprised of sales of its 9-volt batteries, and of this, approximately 21% pertained to sales to smoke alarm OEMs. In 2004, 22% of the Company’s revenues were comprised of sales of its 9-volt batteries, and of this, approximately 19% pertained to smoke alarm OEMs. If 15 Table of Contents the retail demand for long-life smoke alarms decreases significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Growth and Expansion Rapid growth of the Company’s battery business could significantly strain management, operations and technical resources. If the Company is successful in obtaining rapid market growth of its batteries, the Company will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. For example, the large contracts recently received from the U.S. military for the Company’s batteries using cylindrical cells could strain the current capacity capabilities of the Company’s U.K. facility and require additional equipment and time to build a sufficient support infrastructure at that location. This demand could also create working capital issues for the Company, as it may need increased liquidity to fund purchases of raw materials and supplies. The Company cannot assure, however, that business will rapidly grow or that its efforts to expand manufacturing and quality control activities will be successful or that the Company will be able to satisfy commercial scale production requirements on a timely and cost-effective basis. In addition to organic growth, the Company has recently adopted a strategy to grow its business through the acquisition of complementary businesses. The Company’s inability to acquire such businesses, or increased competition which could increase the Company’s acquisition costs, could impede the Company’s ability to close identified acquisitions, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth strategy and results of operations. In addition, the Company’s inability to improve the operating margins of businesses it acquires or operate such acquired businesses profitably or to effectively integrate the operations of those acquired businesses could also adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company will also be required to continue to improve its operations, management and financial systems and controls. The failure to manage growth and expansion effectively could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Risks Related to Government Contracts A significant portion of the Company’s business comes from sales of product to the U.S. military through various government contracts. These contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations that lay out uniform policies and procedures for acquiring goods and services by the U.S. government. The regulations also contain guidelines for managing contracts after they are awarded, including conditions under which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience or for default. Failure to comply with the procurement laws or regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines, penalties, suspension of payments, or suspension or disbarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. The Company has had certain “exigent”, non-bid contracts with the government which have been subject to an audit and final price adjustment which have resulted in decreased margins compared with the original terms of the contracts. As of December 31, 2005, there were no outstanding exigent contracts with the government. As part of its due diligence, the government has conducted post-audits of the completed exigent contracts to ensure that information used in supporting the pricing of exigent contracts did not differ materially from actual results. In September 2005, the Defense Contracting Audit Agency (DCAA) presented its findings related to the audits of three of the exigent contracts, suggesting a potential pricing adjustment of approximately $1,400,000 related to reductions in the cost of materials that occurred prior to the final negotiation of these contracts. The Company has reviewed these audit reports, has submitted its response to these audits and believes, taken as a whole, the proposed audit adjustments can be offset with the consideration of other compensating cost increases that occurred prior to the final negotiation of the contracts. While the Company believes that potential exposure exists relating to any final negotiation of these proposed adjustments, it cannot reasonably estimate what, if any, adjustment may result when finalized. Such adjustments could reduce margins and have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on U.S. Military Procurement of Batteries The Company will continue to develop both non-rechargeable and rechargeable battery products to meet the needs of the U.S. military forces. The Company remains confident in its abilities to compete successfully in solicitations for awards of contracts for these batteries, as well as meeting delivery schedules for orders released under contract. The receipt of an award, however, does not usually result in the immediate release of an order. Any delay of solicitations or anticipated purchase orders by, or future failure of, the U.S. government to purchase batteries manufactured by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the 16 Table of Contents Company is typically required to successfully meet contractual specifications and to pass various qualification testing for the batteries under contract by the military. An inability by the Company to pass these tests in a timely fashion could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. When a government contract is awarded, there is a government procedure that allows for companies to formally protest such award if they believe they were unjustly treated in the evaluation process. As a result of these protests, the government is precluded from progressing under these contracts until the protests are resolved. A prolonged delay in the resolution of a protest, or a reversal of an award resulting from such a protest could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, approximately 45%, 65%, and 56%, respectively, of the Company’s revenues were comprised of sales of batteries made directly or indirectly to the U.S. military. If the demand for batteries from the U.S. military were to decrease significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Concentration of Credit Risk The Company has one major customer, the U.S. Department of Defense, that comprised 25%, 56%, and 51% of the Company’s revenue in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of the total company revenues in those years. Currently, the Company does not experience significant seasonal trends in non-rechargeable battery revenues. However, a downturn in the U.S. economy, which affects retail sales and which could result in fewer sales of smoke detectors to consumers, could potentially result in lower Company sales to this market segment. The smoke detector OEM market segment comprised approximately 8% of total non-rechargeable revenues in 2005. Additionally, a lower demand from the U.S. and U.K. Governments could result in lower sales to military and government users. The Company generally does not distribute its products to a concentrated geographical area nor is there a significant concentration of credit risks arising from individuals or groups of customers engaged in similar activities, or who have similar economic characteristics. While sales to the U.S. military have been substantial during 2005, the Company does not consider this customer to be a significant credit risk. The Company does not normally obtain collateral on trade accounts receivable. Risks Related to Development of Rechargeable Battery Business Although the Company is involved with developing certain rechargeable cells and is in production of rechargeable batteries, it cannot assure that volume acceptance of its rechargeable products will occur due to the highly competitive nature of the business. There are many new company and technology entrants into the marketplace, and the Company must continually reassess the market segments in which its products can be successful and seek to engage customers in these segments that will adopt the Company’s products for use in their products. In addition, these companies must be successful with their products in their markets for the Company to gain increased business. Increased competition, failure to gain customer acceptance of products, the introduction of disruptive technologies or failure of the Company’s customers in their markets could have a further adverse effect on the Company’s rechargeable battery business. Risks Related to Product Warranty Claims The Company typically offers warranties against any defects due to product malfunction or workmanship for a period up to one year from the date of purchase. The Company also offers a 10-year warranty on its 9-volt batteries that are used in ionization-type smoke alarms. The Company provides for a reserve for this potential warranty expense, which is based on an analysis of historical warranty issues. There is no assurance that future warranty claims will be consistent with past history, and in the event the Company experiences a significant increase in warranty claims, there is no assurance that the Company’s reserves are sufficient. This could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Safety Risks; Demands of Environmental and Other Regulatory Compliance Due to the high energy density inherent in lithium batteries, the Company’s batteries can pose certain safety risks, including the risk of fire. Although the Company incorporates safety procedures in research, development, manufacturing processes and the transportation of batteries that are designed to minimize safety risks, the Company cannot assure that accidents will not occur. Although the Company currently carries insurance policies which cover loss of the plant and machinery, leasehold improvements, inventory and business interruption, any accident, whether at the manufacturing 17 Table of Contents facilities or from the use of the products, may result in significant production delays or claims for damages resulting from injuries. These types of losses could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations. National, state and local laws impose various environmental controls on the manufacture, storage, use and disposal of lithium batteries and/or of certain chemicals used in the manufacture of lithium batteries. Although the Company believes that its operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations and that, except as noted below, there are no environmental conditions that will require material expenditures for clean-up at the present or former facilities or at facilities to which it has sent waste for disposal, there can be no assurance that changes in such laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on the Company or otherwise subject it to future liabilities. Moreover, state and local governments may enact additional restrictions relating to the disposal of lithium batteries used by customers that could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the U.S. Department of Transportation and certain international regulatory agencies that consider lithium to be a hazardous material regulate the transportation of lithium-ion batteries and batteries that contain lithium metal. The Company currently ships lithium batteries in accordance with regulations established by the U.S. Department of Transportation and other international regulatory agencies. There can be no assurance that additional or modified regulations relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture the Company’s batteries or restricting disposal of batteries will not be imposed or how these regulations will affect the Company or its customers. In conjunction with the Company’s purchase/lease of its Newark, New York facility in 1998, the Company entered into a payment-in-lieu of tax agreement, which provides the Company with real estate tax concessions upon meeting certain conditions. In connection with this agreement, a consulting firm performed a Phase I and II Environmental Site Assessment, which revealed the existence of contaminated soil and ground water around one of the buildings. The Company, in conjunction with various environmental assessments of the property on which its Newark, New York facility is located, has submitted various work plans to the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation regarding further environmental testing and sampling in order to determine the scope of any additional remediation. The Company is awaiting the results of laboratory analysis. The ultimate resolution of this matter may result in the Company incurring additional costs. Risks Related to Changes in Transportation Regulations The transportation of non-rechargeable and rechargeable lithium batteries is regulated by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and corresponding International Air Transport Association (IATA) Dangerous Goods Regulations and the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code (IMDG), and in the U.S. by the Department of Transportation (DOT). These regulations are based on the UN Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations and the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria. The Company currently ships its products pursuant to ICAO, IATA and DOT hazardous goods regulations. New regulations that pertain to all lithium battery manufacturers went into effect in 2003 and additional regulations are expected to go into effect in 2006. The new regulations require companies to meet certain new testing, packaging, labeling and shipping specifications for safety reasons. The Company complies with all current U.S. and international regulations for the shipment of its products, and will comply with any new regulations that are imposed. The Company has established its own testing facilities to ensure that it complies with these regulations. If the Company were unable to comply with the new regulations, however, or if regulations are introduced that limit the Company’s ability to transport its products to customers in a cost-effective manner, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Limited Sources of Supply and Increases in Material Costs Certain materials used in the Company’s products are available only from a single or a limited number of suppliers. As such, some materials could become in short supply resulting in limited availability and/or increased costs. Additionally, the Company may elect to develop relationships with a single or limited number of suppliers for materials that are otherwise generally available. Due to the Company’s involvement with supplying military batteries to the government, the Company could receive a government preference to continue to obtain critical supplies to meet military production needs. However, if the government did not provide the Company with a government preference in such circumstances, the difficulty in obtaining supplies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. Although the Company believes that alternative suppliers are available to supply materials that could replace materials currently used and that, if necessary, the Company would be able to redesign its products to make use of such alternatives, any interruption in the supply from any supplier that serves as a sole source could delay product shipments and have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company has experienced interruptions of product deliveries by sole source suppliers, these interruptions have not had a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company cannot guarantee that it will not experience a material 18 Table of Contents interruption of product deliveries from sole source suppliers. Additionally, the Company could face increasing pricing pressure from its suppliers dependent upon volume, due to rising costs by these suppliers that could be passed on to the Company in higher prices for its raw materials, which could have a material effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on Proprietary Technologies The Company’s success depends more on the knowledge, ability, experience and technological expertise of its employees than on the legal protection of patents and other proprietary rights. The Company claims proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. The Company cannot guarantee the degree of protection these various claims may or will afford, or that competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Company’s technology. The Company protects its proprietary rights in its products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, customers, consultants and strategic partners. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection these contractual measures may or will afford. The Company, however, has had patents issued and patent applications pending in the U.S. and elsewhere. The Company cannot assure (i) that patents will be issued from any pending applications, or that the claims allowed under any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect its technology, (ii) that any patents issued to the Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or (iii) as to the degree or adequacy of protection any patents or patent applications may or will afford. If the Company is found to be infringing third party patents, there can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain licenses with respect to such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain necessary licenses could delay product shipment or the introduction of new products, and costly attempts to design around such patents could foreclose the development, manufacture or sale of products. Dependence on Key Personnel Because of the specialized, technical nature of the business, the Company is highly dependent on certain members of management, marketing, engineering and technical staff. The loss of these services or these members could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to developing manufacturing capacity to produce high volumes of batteries, the Company must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. The Company’s ability to pursue effectively its business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced managerial, marketing, engineering and technical personnel, and the integration of such personnel obtained through business acquisitions. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to retain or recruit this type of personnel. An inability to hire sufficient numbers of people or to find people with the desired skills could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Competition and Technological Obsolescence The Company competes with large and small manufacturers of alkaline, carbon-zinc, seawater, and high-rate batteries as well as other manufacturers of lithium batteries, both rechargeable and non-rechargeable. The Company cannot assure that it will successfully compete with these manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, marketing, sales and other resources. The market for the Company’s products is characterized by changing technology and evolving industry standards, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product lifecycles. Although the Company believes that its batteries are comprised of state-of-the-art technology, there can be no assurance that competitors will not develop technologies or products that would render the Company’s technology and products obsolete or less marketable. Many of the companies with which the Company competes have substantially greater resources than the Company, and some have the capacity and volume of business to be able to produce their products more efficiently than the Company at the present time. In addition, these companies are developing batteries using a variety of battery technologies and chemistries that are expected to compete with the Company’s technology. If these companies successfully market their batteries before, during or after the introduction of the Company’s products, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Inability to Insure Against Losses Because certain of the Company’s products are used in a variety of applications, including high risk scenarios, it may be exposed to liability claims if such a product fails to function properly. The Company maintains what it believes to 19 Table of Contents be sufficient liability insurance coverage to protect against potential claims; however, there can be no assurance that the liability insurance will continue to be available, or that any such liability insurance would be sufficient to cover any claim or claims. Risks Related to Currency Fluctuations The Company maintains manufacturing operations in the U.S. and the U.K., and exports products to various countries. The Company purchases materials and sells its products in foreign currencies, and therefore currency fluctuations may impact the Company’s pricing of products sold and materials purchased. In addition, the Company’s foreign subsidiary maintains its books in local currency, and the translation of those subsidiary financial statements into U.S. dollars for its consolidated financial statements could have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial results, due to changes in local currency relative to the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Limiting the Use of Net Operating Loss Carryforwards At December 31, 2005, the Company had approximately $82,418,000 of net operating loss carryforwards available to offset current and future taxable income. In addition, the Company reflected a net deferred tax asset of $23,729,000 on its Consolidated Balance Sheet associated with the future tax benefit it expects to receive related to its U.S. operations. The amount of the net deferred tax asset could be reduced if actual or expected future U.S. income or income tax rates are lower than estimated, or if there are differences in the timing or amount of future reversals of existing taxable or deductible temporary differences. Achieving its business plan targets, particularly those relating to revenue and profitability, is integral to the Company’s assessment regarding the recoverability of its net deferred tax asset. The Company has determined that a change in ownership as defined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 occurred during 2003 and again during 2005. As such, the domestic net operating loss carryforward will be subject to an annual limitation estimated to be in the range of approximately $12,000,000. This limitation did not have an impact on income taxes determined for 2005. Such a limitation could result in the possibility of a cash outlay for income taxes in a future year when earnings exceed the amount of NOLs that can be used by the Company. Quarterly Fluctuations in Operating Results and Possible Volatility of Stock Price The Company’s future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on factors such as the timing and shipment of significant orders, new product introductions, delays in customer releases of purchase orders, the mix of distribution channels through which the Company sells its products and general economic conditions. Frequently, a substantial portion of the Company’s revenues in each quarter is generated from orders booked and shipped during that quarter. As a result, revenue levels are difficult to predict for each quarter. If revenue results are below expectations, operating results will be adversely affected as the Company has a sizeable base of fixed overhead costs that do not vary much with the changes in revenue. In addition to the uncertainties of quarterly operating results, future announcements concerning the Company or its competitors, including technological innovations or commercial products, litigation or public concerns as to the safety or commercial value of one or more of its products, may cause the market price of its Common Stock to fluctuate substantially for reasons which may be unrelated to operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Risks Related to Company’s Ability to Finance Ongoing Operations and Projected Growth While the Company believes that its revenue growth projections and its ongoing cost controls will allow it to generate cash and achieve profitability in the foreseeable future, there is no assurance as to when or if the Company will be able to achieve its projections. The Company’s future cash flows from operations, combined with its accessibility to cash and credit, may not be sufficient to allow the Company to finance ongoing operations or to make required investments for future growth. The Company may need to seek additional credit or access capital markets for additional funds. There is no assurance that the Company would be successful in this regard. The Company has certain debt covenants that must be maintained. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to meet these debt covenants in the future. If the Company defaults on any of its debt covenants and it is unable to renegotiate credit terms in order to comply with such covenants, this could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. On November 1, 2005, the Company amended its $25,000,000 credit facility to change the financial metrics that must be met to remain in compliance with the debt covenants for the third and fourth quarters of 2005 and thereafter, to accommodate the Company’s revised financial 20 Table of Contents outlook. As a result of the uncertainty of the Company’s ability to comply with the financial covenants within the next year, the Company is continuing to classify all of the debt associated with this credit facility as a current liability on its balance sheet. While the Company believes relations with its lenders are good and has received waivers as necessary in the past, there can be no assurance that such waivers will always be obtained. In such case, the Company believes it has, in the aggregate, sufficient cash, cash generation capabilities from operations, working capital and financing alternatives at its disposal, including but not limited to alternative borrowing arrangements and other available lenders, to fund operations in the normal course. If the Company is unable to achieve its plans or unforeseen events occur, the Company may need to implement alternative plans to provide it with sufficient levels of liquidity and working capital. While the Company believes it could complete its original plans or alternative plans, if necessary, there can be no assurance that such alternatives would be available on acceptable terms and conditions or that the Company would be successful in its implementation of such plans. Risks Related to Company’s Relationship with Ultralife Taiwan, Inc. In June 2004, the Company recorded a $3,951,000 non-cash, non-operating charge related to the Company’s ownership interest in Ultralife Taiwan, Inc. (“UTI”) that consisted of a write-off of its $2,401,000 note receivable from UTI, including accrued interest, and the book value of its $1,550,000 equity investment in UTI. The Company decided to record this charge due to events that had caused increasing uncertainty over UTI’s near-term financial viability, including a failure by UTI to meet commitments made to the Company and its other creditors to secure additional financial support before July 1, 2004. Based on these factors, and UTI’s operating losses over several years, the Company determined that its investment had an other than temporary decline in fair value and the Company believes that the probability of being reimbursed for the note receivable is remote. The Company continues to hold a 9.2% equity interest in UTI. UTI is no longer supplying products to the Company and the Company has established alternate sources of supply. Risks Related to Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Company maintains and monitors various internal control processes over its financial reporting. While the Company works to ensure a stringent control environment, it is possible that the Company, through its ongoing internal control assessment, may determine that it has deficiencies in certain internal controls that are considered to be material weaknesses. Such material weaknesses in internal controls would be indicative of potential factors that could impact the financial results being reported. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 