Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business or financial position. 15 Risks Related to Our Limited Sources of Revenue Our future revenue is primarily dependent upon option, milestone and contingent royalty payments from Auxilium and technical assistance payments and contingent earn out payments from DFB. Our primary sources of revenues are from (i) option, milestone and contingent royalty payments from Auxilium under the Auxilium Agreement, (ii) payments from DFB for technical assistance we provide and contingent earn out payments from DFB and (iii) the sale of small amounts of collagenase for laboratory research. Under the Auxilium Agreement, in exchange for the right to receive royalties and other rights, we granted to Auxilium the right to develop, manufacture, market and sell worldwide products (other than dermal formulations for topical administration) that contain collagenase for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s diseases and frozen shoulder, subject to certain reversionary rights. However, we may not receive any royalty payments from Auxilium because we have no control over Auxilium’s decision to pursue commercialization, or its ability to successfully manufacture, market and sell candidate products for the treatment of Dupuytren’s and Peyronie’s diseases, and frozen shoulder. Subject to certain conditions, we have retained an option to manufacture a portion of the developed product for the Auxilium Territory licensed to Auxilium after it has been marketed for several years. We have received in the past, and are entitled to receive in the future, certain milestone payments from Auxilium in respect of its efforts to commercialize such candidate products. However, we have no control over Auxilium’s ability to achieve the milestones. Additionally, under the Auxilium Agreement, we are entitled to receive 8.5% of all sublicense income that Auxilium receives from Pfizer under the Pfizer Agreement, which payments are dependent on the achievement by Pfizer of certain regulatory and sales related milestones, of which we have no control. We have also retained the right to pursue other clinical indications for injectable collagenase, and have granted to Auxilium an option to expand its license and development rights to one or more additional indications (“Additional Indications”) for injectable collagenase not currently licensed to Auxilium, including lipomas and cellulite. The option is exercisable as to any such Additional Indications for which we have submitted a Phase II clinical trial report to Auxilium and which meet other criteria provided in the Auxilium Agreement. Upon Auxilium’s exercise of the option with respect to any Additional Indication, it must pay to us a one-time license fee for the rights to such new indication. In addition, we are also entitled to receive milestone payments and, subject to commercialization of any Additional Indications, royalty payments with respect to any such Additional Indications. If Auxilium does not exercise its option as to any Additional Indication, we may offer to any third party such development rights with regard to products in the Auxilium Territory, provided that we first offer the same terms to Auxilium, or to develop the product ourselves. Auxilium has no obligation to exercise its option with respect to any such Additional Indication, and its decision to do so is in its complete discretion. Clinical trials can be expensive and the results are subject to different interpretations, therefore, there is no assurance that after conducting Phase II clinical trials on any Additional Indication, and incurring the associated expenses, Auxilium will exercise its option or we will receive any revenue from it. Under the Auxilium Agreement, we may only offer to a third party development rights with regard to products in the Auxilium Territory and not in the Pfizer Territory. Auxilium’s ability to develop or commercialize Additional Indications in the Pfizer Territory are subject to negotiation with Pfizer under the terms of the Pfizer Agreement. As part of the sale of our topical collagenase business to DFB, we are entitled to receive earn out payments in respect of sales of certain products developed and manufactured by DFB that contain collagenase for topical administration. However, our right to receive earn out payments from DFB is dependent upon DFB’s decision to pursue, and its ability to succeed in, the manufacture and commercialization of such products, and achieve certain sales thresholds at which its obligations to pay earn out payments to us would commence. We are aware that DFB has certain competitive products that may adversely affect the volume of sales of those topical collagenase products for which we are entitled to earn out payments. We also agreed to provide technical assistance to DFB’s affiliate, DPT Lakewood, for a fixed period of time in consideration for certain payments and we are required to maintain certain scientific resources and records in order to provide such assistance and be entitled to receive such payments. 16 Our dependence upon revenue from Auxilium and DFB make us subject to the commercialization and other risk factors affecting those two companies over which we have limited or no control. Auxilium has disclosed in its securities filings a number of risk factors to consider when evaluating its business and future prospects. Given our dependence upon revenue from Auxilium, Auxilium’s operating success or failure has a significant impact on our potential royalty stream and other payment rights. As such, we refer you to the full text of Auxilium’s disclosed risk factors in its securities filings, which were most recently included on its Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2009. DFB is not a publicly traded company and therefore we have little information about its business and future prospects. Although we cannot be certain, we presume that many of the risk factors affecting Auxilium’s business may have some bearing in evaluating DFB’s ability to meet its payment obligations to us for technical assistance or to generate sufficient sales of topical collagenase products entitling us to receive any earn out payments. Unstable market conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. The recent economic downturn and market instability has made the business climate more volatile and more costly. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary equity or debt financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. While we believe we have adequate capital resources to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements until at least the first half of 2012, a radical economic downturn or increase in our expenses could require additional financing on less than attractive rates or on terms that are excessively dilutive to existing stockholders. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price. There is a risk that one or more of our partners may encounter difficulties during challenging economic times, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Limited Supply of Clinical Materials The FDA’s action in December 2005 to place on hold a clinical trial related to hypertrophic scarring being conducted on our behalf by an independent investigator, because of questions regarding certain of our clinical materials, may limit our ability to conduct other clinical trials and to obtain the associated option, milestone and contingent royalty payments under the Auxilium Agreement. One of the independent investigators who has performed a clinical trial on hypertrophic scarring was notified by the FDA that a clinical hold has been placed on an investigational new drug (an “IND”) application for that indication. Prior to commencing clinical trials in U.S. interstate commerce, there must be an effective IND for each of our product candidates. As a result of the clinical hold, the independent investigators are not permitted to conduct a clinical trial for that indication under the IND until the FDA releases the hold. Although we believe that the clinical hold only applies to the use of our clinical materials in connection with the indication specified in the clinical hold notification, it is possible that the FDA might broaden the scope of the clinical hold to cover use of our clinical materials in clinical trials for other indications that we may want to pursue. If the FDA’s hold also limits our ability to conduct clinical trials on other indications, it may make it difficult for us to conduct clinical trials on Additional Indications under the Auxilium Agreement. Consequently, it may limit our ability to obtain the option, milestone and contingent royalty payments under the Auxilium Agreement. We have a limited supply of clinical material, which may limit our ability to conduct other clinical trials and to obtain the associated option, milestone and contingent royalty payments under our agreement with Auxilium. Although we currently have our own clinical material, if this clinical material is damaged or otherwise becomes unusable, then we may have insufficient clinical material to conduct other clinical trials. Although Auxilium has agreed to provide us with additional clinical material, there is no guaranty that Auxilium will do so. Consequently, the lack of availability of clinical material may limit our ability to obtain the option, milestone and contingent royalty payments under the Auxilium Agreement. Risks Related to our Agreements with Auxilium and DFB Our ability to conduct clinical trials and develop products for dermal formulations for topical or injectable administration of collagenase is limited by the agreements we have signed with Auxilium and DFB. Under our agreements with Auxilium and DFB, we have sold, licensed, or granted options to certain of our rights to conduct clinical trials and develop products for dermal formulations for topical or injectable administration of collagenase. Under the terms of the Auxilium Agreement and our agreement with DFB, we have agreed to certain non-competition provisions, which limit our clinical development activities. 17 Risks Related to our Limited Financial and Employee Resources Our limited financial and employee resources limit our ability to develop other indications or products. We currently have only four employees and the sources of revenue described above. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon independent investigators, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to conduct clinical trials, sell or license products or technologies to us. To end our reliance on Auxilium and DFB for the majority of our revenues, we would need to in-license, acquire, develop and market other products and product candidates. However, we may not be able to successfully identify any commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop given our limited financial and employee resources. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may, if we decide to follow this strategy, compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates our ability to grow our business or increase our profits could be severely limited. If we are unable to obtain option payments, milestone and earn out or contingent royalty payments from Auxilium or DFB or meet our needs for additional funding from other sources, we may be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations. Our negative cash flows from operations are expected to continue for at least the foreseeable future. Our business strategy contains elements that we will not be able to execute if we do not receive the anticipated option, milestone, royalty or earn out payments from Auxilium or DFB, or secure additional funding from other sources. Specifically, we may need to raise additional capital to: acquire or in-license approved products or product candidates or technologies for development; fund our product development, including clinical trials relating to in-licensed technology and the remaining indications; and commercialize any resulting product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval. We believe that our existing cash resources and interest on these funds will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating requirements until at least the first half of 2012. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: DFB’s ability to meet its payment obligations and to manufacture and commercialize topical collagenase products for which we would receive earn out payments; Auxilium’s ability to manufacture and commercialize injectable product for which we would receive milestone and royalty payments; Pfizer’s ability to develop and commercialize the product in the Pfizer Territory and Auxilium’s receipt of milestone payments from Pfizer under the Pfizer Agreement for which we would receive a percentage of sublicense income and royalty payments (for more information regarding Auxilium’s financial risks associated with Pfizer under the Pfizer Agreement, we refer you to the full text of Auxilium’s disclosed risk factors in its securities filings, which were most recently included on its Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2009); The amount actually owed to Auxilium for lyophilization related costs; the scope, rate of progress, cost and results of our clinical trials on remaining Additional Indications, including lipomas and cellulite, and whether Auxilium exercises its option to acquire rights to them; the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing, co-promotion and other arrangements that we may establish; and the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights or defending against any other litigation. 18 These factors could result in variations from our currently projected operating requirements. If our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our operating requirements, we may need to limit, scale back or cease operations or, in the alternative, borrow money. Given our operations and history, we may not be able to borrow money on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we issue any equity or debt securities, the terms of such issuance may not be acceptable to us and would likely result in substantial dilution of our stockholders’ investment. If we do not receive revenues from Auxilium or DFB, and are unable to secure additional financing, we may be required to cease operations. In order to finance and to secure the rights to conduct clinical trials for products we have licensed to Auxilium, we have granted to third parties significant rights to share in royalty payments received by us. To finance and secure the rights to conduct clinical trials for products we have licensed to Auxilium, we have granted to third parties certain rights to share in royalty payments received by us from Auxilium under the Auxilium Agreement. Consequently, we will be required to share a significant portion of the payments due from Auxilium under the Auxilium Agreement. Risks Related to the Age and Qualifications of the Members of Our Board of Directors Because of the age of some of our independent Board members, we may have to find replacements shortly, and due to our financial condition and SEC compliance history this may be difficult, which could impact our ability to remain listed on Nasdaq. The four independent members of our Board, who are also members of our audit committee (the “Audit Committee”), are eighty-eight, sixty-nine, sixty-eight and sixty years old, respectively, as of December 31, 2008. Upon the retirement, incapacity or death of one or more of our independent Board members, we would have to find replacements in a short period of time. In light of our financial condition and SEC compliance history, it may be difficult to find any replacements for our independent Board members. If we fail to find replacements in a timely manner, our ability to remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market (“Nasdaq”) and our common stock price may be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Regulatory Requirements We are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. Conducting clinical trials, and the testing, development and manufacturing and distribution of any product candidates are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, if we desire to export the resulting products to such other jurisdictions. These regulations govern or affect the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record-keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of any product candidates, as well as safe working conditions. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in suspension or termination of any ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate or refusal of the government to approve product candidate for commercialization, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. The FDA and comparable governmental authorities have the authority to suspend or terminate any ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate or withdraw product approvals that have been previously granted. Currently, there is a substantial amount of congressional and administrative review of the FDA and the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. As a result, there may be significant changes made to the regulatory approval process in the U.S. In addition, the regulatory requirements relating to the development, manufacturing, testing, promotion, marketing and distribution of product candidates may change in the U.S. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. 19 Additionally, failure to comply with or changes to the regulatory requirements that are applicable, or may become applicable to us or any product candidates we may develop or obtain, may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; warning letters; withdrawal of a product candidate from the market; voluntary or mandatory recall of a product candidate; fines; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for a product candidate; refusal to permit the import or export of our products; refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; product seizure; and injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have the operating effectiveness of our internal controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual reports, including Form 10-KSB. We were subject to this requirement commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and a report of our management is included under Item 9A(T) of this Report. In addition, SOX 404 requires the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements to also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of such company’s internal controls. However, this Report does not include an attestation report because under current securities laws, we are not subject to these requirements until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event that we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations and we have and will continue to incur costs relating to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. We are a small company and we rely heavily on third parties and outside consultants to conduct many important functions. As a biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including SOX, some of which have only recently been revised or adopted. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our common stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or list our securities on certain securities exchanges. The new rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with these rules and regulations. 20 Risks Related to Growth and Employees Our failure to successfully in-license or acquire additional technologies, product candidates or approved products could impair our ability to grow or continue to operate. We may decide to pursue other opportunities to in-license, acquire, develop and market additional products and product candidates so that we are not solely reliant on Auxilium and DFB sales for our revenues. Because we have limited internal research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers and independent investigators to sell or license products or technologies to us. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire the right pharmaceutical product candidates, products and technologies. We may not be able to successfully identify any commercial products or product candidates to in-license, acquire or internally develop. Moreover, negotiating and implementing an economically viable in-licensing arrangement or acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the in-licensing or acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or in-license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. If we are unable to in-license or acquire additional commercial products or product candidates we may be reliant solely on Auxilium and DFB sales for revenues. As a result, our ability to grow our business or increase our revenues could be severely limited. If we are able to develop any product candidates for Additional Indications of injectable collagenase, we may not be able to obtain option, milestone or royalty payments under the Auxilium Agreement, which could impair our ability to grow and could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. The process of conducting clinical trials and developing product candidates involves a high degree of risk and may take several years. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including: clinical trials may show product candidates to be ineffective or not as effective as anticipated or to have harmful side effects or any unforeseen result; product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market; manufacturing costs, the inability to scale up to produce supplies for clinical trials or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; and the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent product candidates from being effectively commercialized or to obtain exclusivity. Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Currently, there is substantial congressional and administration review of the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. Any changes to the U.S. regulatory approval process could significantly increase the timing or cost of regulatory approval for a product candidates making further development uneconomical or impossible. In addition, once Auxilium exercises its option with respect to any product candidate for any Additional Indications, further clinical trials, development, manufacturing, marketing and selling of such product is out of our control. Our interest is limited to receiving option, milestone and royalty payment, and the option in certain circumstances to manufacture according to particular specifications set by Auxilium. 21 Any product acquisition or development efforts also could result in large and immediate write-offs, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could negatively impact our financial results. Adverse events or lack of efficacy in clinical trials may force us and/or our partners whom we are wholly dependent upon to stop development of our product candidates or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. If we decide to proceed with conducting clinical trials with respect to any Additional Indications, adverse events or lack of efficacy may force us to stop development of our product candidates or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. In addition, any adverse events or lack of efficacy may force Auxilium to stop development of the products we have licensed to them or prevent regulatory approval of such products, which could materially impair all or a material part of the future revenue we hope to receive from Auxilium. We face competition in our product development efforts from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other not-for-profit institutions. We face competition in our product development from entities that have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and greater financial, scientific, marketing and human resources. These entities include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and not-for-profit institutions. Our competitors may succeed in developing products or intellectual property earlier than we do, entering into successful collaborations before us, obtaining approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for such products before us, or developing products that are more effective than those we could develop. The success of any one competitor in these or other respects will have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to receive option payments from Auxilium or ability to generate revenues from third party arrangements with respect to the Additional Indications (to the extent that Auxilium does not exercise its option with respect to an Additional Indication). Because of the specialized nature of our business, the termination of relationships with key management, consulting and scientific personnel or the inability to recruit and retain additional personnel could prevent us from developing our technologies, conducting clinical trials and obtaining financing. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense, and we rely heavily on our ability to attract and contract with qualified independent scientific and medical investigators, and technical and managerial personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. To the extent we are unable to attract and retain any of these individuals on favorable terms our business may be adversely affected. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. We continue to have product liability exposure for topical product sold by us prior to the sale of our topical business to DFB. In addition, under the Auxilium Agreement, we are obligated to indemnify Auxilium and its affiliates for any harm or losses they suffered relating to any personal injury and other product liability resulting from our development, manufacture or commercialization of any injectable collagenase product. In addition, the clinical testing and, if approved, commercialization of our product candidates involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have clinical trial and product liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $3 million dollars that covers us and the clinical trials of our other product candidates that we believe is adequate in both scope and amount and has been placed with what we believe are reputable insurers. Our current and future coverage may, however, not be adequate to protect us from all the liabilities that we may incur. If losses from product liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which could impair our business. We may not be able to maintain our clinical trial and product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. If we are required to pay a product liability claim, we may not have sufficient financial resources and our business and results of operations may be harmed. 22 Risks Related to Intellectual Property Rights If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are critical to our business and our business could be harmed. We are a party to a number of license agreements by which we have acquired rights to use the intellectual property of third parties that are necessary for us to operate our business. If any of the parties terminate their agreements, whether by their terms or due to a breach by us, our right to use their intellectual property may negatively affect our licenses to Auxilium or DFB and, in turn, their obligation to make option, milestone, contingent royalty or other payments to us. Our ability and the ability of out licensors, licensees and collaborators to develop and license products based on our patents may be impaired by the intellectual property of third parties. Auxilium’s, DFB’s and our commercial success in developing and manufacturing collagenase products based on our patents is dependent on these products not infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. While we currently believe that we, our licensees, licensors and collaborators have freedom to operate in the collagenase market, others may challenge that position in the future. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Third parties could bring legal actions against us, our licensees, licensors or collaborators claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or products. A third party might request a court to rule that the patents we in-licensed or licensed to others, or those we may in-license in the future, are invalid or unenforceable. In such a case, even if the validity or enforceability of those patents were upheld, a court might hold that the third party’s actions do not infringe the patent we in-license or license to others thereby, in effect, limiting the scope of our patent rights and those of our licensees, licensors or collaborators. We are obligated by our agreements with Auxilium and DFB to indemnify them against any claims for infringement based on the use of our technology. If we become involved in any litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If Auxilium or DFB becomes involved in such litigation, it could also consume a substantial portion of their resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation, thereby jeopardizing their ability to commercialize candidate products and/or their ability to make option, milestone or royalty payments to us. If any of these actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license to permit ourselves, our licensees, licensors or our collaborators to conduct clinical trials, manufacture or market the affected product, in which case we may be required to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents. However, there can be no assurance that any such license will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Ultimately, we, our licensees, licensors or collaborators could be prevented from commercializing a product, or forced to cease some aspect of their or our business, as a result of patent infringement claims, which could harm our business or right to receive option, milestone and contingent royalty payments. Risks Related to our Common Stock Although we currently meet the listing requirements for Nasdaq, our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq. The National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. has established certain standards for the continued listing of a security on Nasdaq, which are applicable to the continued listing of our common stock. In light of the current economic slowdown, Nasdaq has temporarily suspended certain of its continued listing requirements regarding minimum bid price and market value of publicly held shares. These rules will be reinstated on July 20, 2009. Nasdaq has not indicated any further suspension of those requirements beyond that date. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining our Nasdaq listing, then we may pursue listing and trading of our common stock on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board or another securities exchange or association with different listing standards than Nasdaq. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade us or our or our sector, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We are not currently covered by any research analysts. Furthermore, if the analysts who cover us in the future downgrade us or the industry in which we operate or the stock of any of our competitors, the price of our common stock will probably decline. 23 Future sales of our common stock could negatively affect our stock price. If our common stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stock price may decline and our existing stockholders may experience dilution of their interests. Because we historically have not declared dividends, stockholders must rely on an increase in the stock price for any return on their investment in us. Our stock price has, in the past, been volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop below the current price. Our stock price has, at times, been volatile. Currently, our common stock is traded on Nasdaq and is thinly traded. Market prices for securities of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies have been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: listing of our common stock on a securities exchange or market; results of our clinical trials; failure of any product candidates we have licensed to Auxilium or sold to DFB to achieve commercial success; regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; litigation involving us or our general industry, or both; future sales of our common stock by the estate of our former Chairman and CEO or others; changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems, including developments in price control legislation; departure of key personnel; announcements of material events by those companies that are our competitors or perceived to be similar to us; changes in estimates of our financial results; investors’ general perception of us; and general economic, industry and market conditions. If any of these risks occurs, or continues to occur, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. We have no current plan to pay dividends on our common stock and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares. We cannot assure investors of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares nor can we assure that investors will not lose the entire amount of their investment. 24 Our outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock could have a possible dilutive effect. As of December 31, 2008, options to purchase 1,427,100 shares of common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2008 a total of 194,098 options were available for grant under our stock option plans. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights agreement may prevent or frustrate a change in control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws (as amended) and stockholder rights agreement may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions: provide for a classified board of directors; give our Board the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; limit the ability of the stockholders to call special meetings; and impose advance notice requirements on stockholders concerning the election of directors and other proposals to be presented at stockholder meetings. In addition, during May 2002, the Board implemented a rights agreement (commonly known as a “Poison Pill”), which effectively discourages or prevents acquisitions of more than 15% of our common stock in transactions (mergers, consolidations, tender offer, etc.) that have not been approved by our Board. These provisions could make it more difficult for common stockholders to replace members of the Board. Because our Board is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. If our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations, acting in their own best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of March 2, 2009 our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned shares representing approximately 34.9% of our common stock, although sales by the estate of Edwin H. Wegman, our former Chairman and CEO, may result in a change of control of certain of these shares. Beneficial ownership includes shares over which an individual or entity has investment or voting power and includes shares that could be issued upon the exercise of options within 60 days. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they may be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these individuals, if they chose to act together, could control the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to other stockholders. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Changes in the expensing of stock-based compensation will result in unfavorable accounting charges and may require us to change our compensation practices. Any change in our compensation practices may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. In the past, we have relied on stock options to compensate existing directors, employees and attract new employees and consultants. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has announced new rules for recording expense for the fair value of stock options. As a result of these new rules, commencing on January 1, 2006, we will expense the fair value of stock options, thereby increasing our operating expenses and reported losses. Although we may continue to include various forms of equity in our compensation plans, if the extent to which we use forms of equity in our plans is reduced due to the negative effects on earnings, it may be difficult for us to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. 25 Item IB. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On January 6, 2009 the Company announced that it will hold its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on June 17, 2009 at the New York offices of Bingham McCutchen LLP, located at 399 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022 and that the deadline for stockholders to submit proposals to be included in our proxy statement with respect to the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was February 6, 2009. On January 9, 2009 the Company’s common became listed and commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “BSTC.” On January 30, 2009, the Company received an upfront sublicense payment of $6.375 million from Auxilium in accordance with the terms of the Auxilium Agreement. In a press release dated February 2, 2009, Auxilium announced that it has completed patient enrollment in its Phase IIb trial of XIAFLEX for the treatment of Peyronie’s disease and that all patients have received their first injection of either XIAFLEX or placebo in accordance with the study design. In a press release dated March 2, 2009, Auxilium announced that it filed a BLA for the treatment of Dupuytren’s disease on February 27, 2009. Auxilium also announced that it has requested a Priority Review designation for the BLA submission from the FDA and that it expects to hear from the FDA on Priority Review designation within approximately 60 days of the filing date. 