ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A decline in demand for products using our batteries could reduce demand for our batteries. A substantial portion of our business depends on the continued demand for products using our batteries and communications accessories sold by original equipment manufacturers, OEMs. Our success depends significantly upon the success of those OEMs’ products in the marketplace. We sell much of our products through OEM supply agreements and contracts. While OEM agreements and contracts contain volume-based pricing based on expected volumes, industry practices dictate that pricing is rarely adjusted retroactively when contract volumes are not achieved. Every effort is made to adjust future prices accordingly, but the ability to adjust prices is generally based on market conditions. We are subject to many risks beyond our control that influence the success or failure of a particular product manufactured by an OEM, including: • competition faced by the OEM in its particular industry, • market acceptance of the OEM’s product, • the engineering, sales, marketing and management capabilities of the OEM, • technical challenges unrelated to our technology or products faced by the OEM in developing its products, and • the financial and other resources of the OEM. For instance, in the year ended December 31, 2006, 27% of our revenues were comprised of sales of our 9-volt batteries, and of this, approximately 47% pertained to sales to smoke alarm OEMs. Similarly, in the year ended December 31, 2005, 32% of our revenues were comprised of sales of our 9-volt batteries, and of this, approximately 21% pertained to sales to smoke alarm OEMs. In 2004, 22% of our revenues were comprised of sales of our 9-volt batteries, and of this, approximately 19% pertained to smoke alarm OEMs. If the retail demand for long-life smoke alarms decreases significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth and expansion strategy could strain or overwhelm our resources. Rapid growth of our business could significantly strain management, operations and technical resources. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our products, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. For example, the large contracts recently received from the U.S. military for our batteries using cylindrical cells could strain the current capacity capabilities of our U.K. facility and require additional equipment and time to build a sufficient support infrastructure at that location. This demand could also create working capital issues for us, as we may need increased liquidity to fund purchases of raw materials and supplies. We cannot assure, however, that business will grow rapidly or that our efforts to expand manufacturing and quality control activities will be successful or that we will be able to satisfy commercial scale production requirements on a timely and cost-effective basis. In addition to organic growth, we have recently adopted a strategy to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses. Our inability to acquire such businesses, or increased competition which could increase our acquisition costs, could impede our ability to close identified acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. In addition, our inability to improve the operating margins of businesses we acquire or operate such acquired businesses profitably or to effectively integrate the operations of those acquired businesses could also adversely affect our business and results of operations. In 2006, we acquired the businesses of McDowell Research and ABLE New Energy Co., which added new facilities and operations to our overall business. We have faced some initial operational challenges at McDowell that are requiring a greater amount of management’s time to resolve than we had expected. Our management team remains essentially the same, however, which places an increased burden and responsibility on a team which had little capacity to absorb such added responsibility. In addition, these acquisitions have strained our production capacity, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to meet customer demands for product delivery. We will also be required to continue to improve our operations, management and financial systems and controls. The failure to manage growth and expansion effectively could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. 16 Table of Contents Our recent acquisitions may not result in the revenue growth that we expect. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions. During the second quarter of 2006, we acquired ABLE New Energy Co., Ltd., a manufacturer of lithium batteries located in Shenzhen, China, and during the beginning of the third quarter of 2006, we acquired substantially all of the assets of McDowell Research, Ltd., a manufacturer of military communications accessories located in Waco, Texas. We have begun the process of integrating these acquisitions into our business and assimilating their operations, services, products and personnel with our management policies, procedures and strategies. We cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. To effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls. If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. The U.S. government can audit our contracts with the U.S. military and, under certain circumstances, can adjust the economic terms of those contracts. A significant portion of our business comes from sales of product to the U.S. military through various government contracts. These contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations that lay out uniform policies and procedures for acquiring goods and services by the U.S. government. The regulations also contain guidelines for managing contracts after they are awarded, including conditions under which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience or for default. Failure to comply with the procurement laws or regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines, penalties, suspension of payments, or suspension or disbarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. We have had certain “exigent”, non-bid contracts with the U.S. government that have been subject to an audit and final price adjustment and have resulted in decreased margins compared with the original terms of the contracts. As of December 31, 2006, there were no outstanding exigent contracts with the government. As part of its due diligence, the U.S. government has conducted post-audits of the completed exigent contracts to ensure that information used in supporting the pricing of exigent contracts did not differ materially from actual results. In September 2005, the Defense Contracting Audit Agency, or DCAA, presented its findings related to the audits of three of the exigent contracts, suggesting a potential pricing adjustment of approximately $1,400,000 related to reductions in the cost of materials that occurred prior to the final negotiation of these contracts. We have reviewed these audit reports, have submitted our response to these audits and believe, taken as a whole, the proposed audit adjustments can be offset with the consideration of other compensating cost increases that occurred prior to the final negotiation of the contracts. While we believe that potential exposure exists relating to any final negotiation of these proposed adjustments, we cannot reasonably estimate what, if any, adjustment may result when finalized. Such adjustments could reduce margins and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the contract rules and procedures of the U.S. government because we do business with the U.S. military. These rules and procedures create significant risks and uncertainties for us that are not usually present in contracts with private parties. We will continue to develop both non-rechargeable and rechargeable battery products and related products to meet the needs of the U.S. military. We remain confident in our abilities to compete successfully in solicitations for awards of contracts for these products, as well as meeting delivery schedules for orders released under contract. The receipt of an award, however, does not usually result in the immediate release of an order. Any delay of solicitations or anticipated purchase orders by, or future failure of, the U.S. government to purchase products manufactured by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we are typically required to successfully meet contractual specifications and to pass various qualification-testing for the products under contract by the military. Our inability to pass these tests in a timely fashion could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. When a government contract is awarded, there is a government procedure that permits unsuccessful companies to formally protest such award if they believe they were unjustly treated in the evaluation process. As a result of these protests, the government is precluded from proceeding under these contracts until the protests are resolved. A prolonged delay in the resolution of a protest, or a reversal of an award resulting from such a protest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our products are sold for ultimate use overseas in countries where the U.S. military is deployed. Government decisions regarding military deployment and budget allocations to fund overseas military operations have an impact on the demand for our products. In the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately 47%, 45%, and 65%, respectively, of our revenues were comprised of sales made directly or indirectly to the U.S. military. If the demand for products 17 Table of Contents from the U.S. military were to decrease significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from contracts with the U.S. military or OEMs that supply the U.S. military. We have one major customer, the U.S. Department of Defense, that comprised 20%, 25%, and 56% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total revenues in those years. We have one customer that comprised 22% of our trade accounts receivable as of December 31, 2006. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total trade accounts receivable as of December 31, 2006. In addition, there were no customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total trade accounts receivable as of December 31, 2005. Currently, we do not experience significant seasonal trends in our product revenues. However, a downturn in the U.S. economy, which affects retail sales and which could result in fewer sales of smoke detectors to consumers, could potentially result in lower sales in our non-rechargeable battery market segment. The smoke detector OEM market segment comprised approximately 17% of total non-rechargeable revenues in 2006. Additionally, a lower demand from the U.S. and U.K. governments could result in lower sales to military and government users. We generally do not distribute our products to a concentrated geographical area nor is there a significant concentration of credit risks arising from individuals or groups of customers engaged in similar activities, or who have similar economic characteristics. While sales to the U.S. military have been substantial during 2006, we do not consider this customer to be a significant credit risk. We do not normally obtain collateral on trade accounts receivable. Our efforts to develop new commercial applications for our products could fail. Although we are involved with developing certain products for new commercial applications, such as back-up batteries for the automotive telematics market, batteries for emergency locator transmitters and RF amplifiers for portable radio communications, we cannot assure that volume acceptance of our products will occur due to the highly competitive nature of the business. There are many new product and technology entrants into the marketplace, and we must continually reassess the market segments in which our products can be successful and seek to engage customers in these segments that will adopt our products for use in their products. In addition, these companies must be successful with their products in their markets for us to gain increased business. Increased competition, failure to gain customer acceptance of products, the introduction of disruptive technologies or failure of our customers in their markets could have a further adverse effect on our business. We may incur significant costs because of the warranties we supply with our products. With respect to our battery products, we typically offer warranties against any defects due to product malfunction or workmanship for a period up to one year from the date of purchase. With respect to our communications accessory products, we typically offer a four-year warranty. We also offer a 10-year warranty on our 9-volt batteries that are used in ionization-type smoke alarms. We provide for a reserve for these potential warranty expenses, which is based on an analysis of historical warranty issues. There is no assurance that future warranty claims will be consistent with past history, and in the event we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, there is no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur significant costs because of known and unknown environmental matters. Due to the high energy density inherent in lithium batteries, our batteries can pose certain safety risks, including the risk of fire. Although we incorporate safety procedures in research, development, manufacturing processes and the transportation of batteries that are designed to minimize safety risks, we cannot assure that accidents will not occur. Although we currently carry insurance policies which cover loss of the plant and machinery, leasehold improvements, inventory and business interruption, any accident, whether at the manufacturing facilities or from the use of the products, may result in significant production delays or claims for damages resulting from injuries. Although we maintain what we believe to be sufficient casualty and liability insurance coverage to protect against such occurrences, these types of losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. National, state and local laws impose various environmental controls on the manufacture, storage, use and disposal of lithium batteries and/or of certain chemicals used in the manufacture of lithium batteries. Although we believe that our 18 Table of Contents operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations and that, except as noted below, there are no environmental conditions that will require material expenditures for clean-up at the present or former facilities or at facilities to which we have sent waste for disposal, there can be no assurance that changes in such laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. Moreover, state and local governments may enact additional restrictions relating to the disposal of lithium batteries used by our customers that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT, and certain international regulatory agencies that consider lithium to be a hazardous material regulate the transportation of lithium-ion batteries and batteries that contain lithium metal. We currently ship lithium batteries in accordance with regulations established by the DOT and other international regulatory agencies. There can be no assurance that additional or modified regulations relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our batteries or restricting disposal of batteries will not be imposed or how these regulations will affect us or our customers. In conjunction with our purchase/lease of our Newark, New York facility in 1998, we entered into a payment-in-lieu of tax agreement, which provides us with real estate tax concessions upon meeting certain conditions. In connection with this agreement, a consulting firm performed a Phase I and II Environmental Site Assessment, which revealed the existence of contaminated soil and ground water around one of the buildings. We have submitted various work plans to the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, or NYSDEC, regarding further environmental testing and sampling in order to determine the scope of any additional remediation. We subsequently met with the NYSDEC in March 2006 to present the test results. In November 2006, the NYSDEC completed its review of the final investigation report and requested additional groundwater, soil and sediment sampling. A work plan to address the additional investigation is being developed. The ultimate resolution of this matter may result in us incurring additional costs. The future regulatory direction of the RoHS and WEEE Directives, as they pertain to our products, is uncertain. Their potential impact to our business would become material if battery packs were to be included in new guidelines and we were unable to procure materials in a timely manner. Other associated risks under this scenario include excess or inventory risk due to a write off of non-compliant inventory. We continue to monitor the regulatory activity of the EU to ascertain such risks. China’s “Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products Regulation” (“China RoHS”) provides a broad regulatory framework including similar hazardous substance restrictions as are imposed by the European RoHS Directive, and apply to methods for the control and reduction of pollution and other public hazards to the environment caused during the production, sale, and import of electronic information products in China affecting a broad range of electronic products and parts, with an effective implementation date of March 1, 2007. However, these methods do not apply to the production of products destined for export. Our compliance system should be sufficient to meet such requirements. Our current estimated costs associated with our compliance with this regulation based on our current market share are not significant. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of this regulation, and actual costs could differ from our current estimates. Our inability to comply with changes to the regulations for the shipment of our products could limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner The transportation of non-rechargeable and rechargeable lithium batteries is regulated by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), and corresponding International Air Transport Association (IATA), Dangerous Goods Regulations and the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code (IMDG), and in the U.S. by the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA). These regulations are based on the United Nations (UN) Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations and the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria. We currently ship our products pursuant to ICAO, IATA and PHMSA hazardous goods regulations. New regulations that pertain to all lithium battery manufacturers went into effect in 2003 and 2004, and additional regulations will go into effect in 2009. The regulations require companies to meet certain testing, packaging, labeling and shipping specifications for safety reasons. We comply with all current U.S. and international regulations for the shipment of our products, and will comply with any new regulations that are imposed. We have established our own testing facilities to ensure that we comply with these regulations. If we were unable to comply with the new regulations, however, or if regulations are introduced that limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our supply of raw materials could be disrupted. Certain materials used in our products are available only from a single or a limited number of suppliers. As such, some materials could become in short supply resulting in limited availability and/or increased costs. Additionally, we may 19 Table of Contents elect to develop relationships with a single or limited number of suppliers for materials that are otherwise generally available. Due to our involvement with supplying military batteries to the government, we could receive a government preference to continue to obtain critical supplies to meet military production needs. However, if the government did not provide us with a government preference in such circumstances, the difficulty in obtaining supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Although we believe that alternative suppliers are available to supply materials that could replace materials currently used and that, if necessary, we would be able to redesign our products to make use of such alternatives, any interruption in the supply from any supplier that serves as a sole source could delay product shipments and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have experienced interruptions of product deliveries by sole source suppliers, these interruptions have not typically had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, as we increased production at our Waco, Texas facility in the fourth quarter of 2006, our operations were hindered by certain suppliers’ inability to provide timely deliveries of materials. We cannot guarantee that we will not experience a material interruption of product deliveries from sole source suppliers. Additionally, we could face increasing pricing pressure from our suppliers dependent upon volume, due to rising costs by these suppliers that could be passed on to us in higher prices for our raw materials, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to protect our proprietary and intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce competing products based on our proprietary and intellectual property rights. Our success depends more on the knowledge, ability, experience and technological expertise of our employees than on the legal protection of patents and other proprietary rights. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. We cannot guarantee the degree of protection these various claims may or will afford, or that competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, customers, consultants and strategic partners. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection these contractual measures may or will afford. We have had patents issued and have patent applications pending in the U.S. and elsewhere. We cannot assure (1) that patents will be issued from any pending applications, or that the claims allowed under any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology, (2) that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or (3) as to the degree or adequacy of protection any patents or patent applications may or will afford. If we are found to be infringing third party patents, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses with respect to such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain necessary licenses could delay product shipment or the introduction of new products, and costly attempts to design around such patents could foreclose the development, manufacture or sale of products. The loss of key personnel could significantly harm our business, and the ability and technical competence of persons we hire will be critical to the success of our business. Because of the specialized, technical nature of our business, we are highly dependent on certain members of our management, marketing, engineering and technical staff. The loss of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to developing manufacturing capacity to produce high volumes of batteries, we must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. Our ability to pursue effectively our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced managerial, marketing, engineering and technical personnel, and the integration of such personnel obtained through business acquisitions. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain or recruit this type of personnel. An inability to hire sufficient numbers of people or to find people with the desired skills could result in greater demands being placed on limited management resources which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products could become obsolete. We compete with large and small manufacturers of alkaline, carbon-zinc, seawater, and high-rate batteries as well as other manufacturers of lithium batteries, both rechargeable and non-rechargeable, and communications accessories. We cannot assure that we will successfully compete with these manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, marketing, sales and other resources. 20 Table of Contents The market for our products is characterized by changing technology and evolving industry standards, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product lifecycles. Although we believe that our products are comprised of state-of-the-art technology, there can be no assurance that competitors will not develop technologies or products that would render our technology and products obsolete or less marketable. Many of the companies with which we compete have substantially greater resources than us, and some have the capacity and volume of business to be able to produce their products more efficiently than we can at the present time. In addition, these companies are developing or have developed products using a variety of technologies that are expected to compete with our technologies. If these companies successfully market their products in a manner that renders our technologies obsolete, there will be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. We maintain manufacturing operations in the U.S., the U.K. and China, and export products to various countries. We purchase materials and sell our products in foreign currencies, and therefore currency fluctuations may impact our pricing of products sold and materials purchased. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries maintain their books in local currency, and the translation of those subsidiary financial statements into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results, due to changes in local currency relative to the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards in the future may be limited, which could have an adverse impact on our tax liabilities. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $84.7 million of net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, available to offset future taxable income. At the end of 2004, based on our assessment, we recorded a deferred tax asset related to the future tax benefit expected to be received relating to our U.S. operations. This was due to our profitable track record and expected continued profitability. The asset was recorded since it was determined to be more likely then not to be realized. We continually assess the carrying value of this asset based on the relevant accounting standards. As a result of our assessment in the fourth quarter of 2006, we concluded that a full valuation allowance against the net deferred tax asset was appropriate. The establishment of the valuation allowance was based upon the most recent operating losses in the U.S. as well as other factors. Therefore, as of December 31, 2006, we reflected a net deferred tax asset of $0 in the United States and in the United Kingdom. As we continue to assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets, the amount of the valuation allowance could be reduced. Achieving our business plan targets, particularly those relating to revenue and profitability, is integral to our assessment regarding the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset. We have determined that a change in ownership, as defined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382, occurred during 2003 and again during 2005. As such, the domestic net operating loss carryforward will be subject to an annual limitation estimated to be in the range of approximately $12 million. This limitation did not have an impact on income taxes determined for 2006. Such a limitation could result in the possibility of a cash outlay for income taxes in a future year when earnings exceed the amount of NOLs that can be used by us. Our quarterly results and the price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter depending on factors such as the timing and shipment of significant orders, new product introductions, delays in customer releases of purchase orders, the mix of distribution channels through which we sell our products and general economic conditions. Frequently, a substantial portion of our revenue in each quarter is generated from orders booked and shipped during that quarter. As a result, revenue levels are difficult to predict for each quarter. If revenue results are below expectations, operating results will be adversely affected as we have a sizeable base of fixed overhead costs that do not vary much with the changes in revenue. In addition to the uncertainties of quarterly operating results, future announcements concerning us or our competitors, including technological innovations or commercial products, litigation or public concerns as to the safety or commercial value of one or more of our products, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially for reasons which may be unrelated to our operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We may be unable to obtain financing to fund ongoing operations and future growth. While we believe that our revenue growth projections and our ongoing cost controls will allow us to generate cash and achieve profitability in the foreseeable future, there is no assurance as to when or if we will be able to achieve our projections. Our future cash flows from operations, combined with our accessibility to cash and credit, may not be 21 Table of Contents sufficient to allow us to finance ongoing operations or to make required investments for future growth. We may need to seek additional credit or access capital markets for additional funds. There is no assurance that we would be successful in this regard. We have certain debt covenants that must be maintained. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to meet these debt covenants in the future. If we default on any of our debt covenants and we are unable to renegotiate credit terms in order to comply with such covenants, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On November 1, 2005, we amended our $25 million credit facility to change the financial metrics that must be met to remain in compliance with the debt covenants for the third and fourth quarters of 2005 and thereafter, to accommodate our revised financial outlook. Effective July 3, 2006, in connection with our acquisitions of ABLE New Energy Co., Ltd. and McDowell Research, Ltd., we amended the credit facility to increase the amount of the revolving credit component from $15 million to $20 million, extend the maturity date for revolving loans and revise the covenants regarding debt-to-earnings ratio and EBIT-to-interest-expense ratio. Effective February 14, 2007, we entered into Forbearance and Amendment Number Six to the Credit Agreement (“Forbearance and Amendment”) with JPMorgan Chase and M&T Bank. The Forbearance and Amendment provides that JPMorgan Chase and M&T Bank will forbear from exercising their rights under the credit facility arising from our failure to comply with certain financial covenants in the credit facility with respect to the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2006. Specifically, we were not in compliance with the terms of the credit facility because we failed to maintain the required debt-to-earnings and EBIT-to-interest ratios provided for in the credit facility. JPMorgan Chase and M&T Bank have agreed to forbear from exercising their respective rights and remedies under the credit facility until March 23, 2007 (“Forbearance Period”), unless we breach the Forbearance and Amendment or unless another event or condition occurs that constitutes a default under the credit facility. Once the Forbearance Period ends, JPMorgan Chase and M&T Bank may exercise their rights and remedies under the credit facility without further notice or action. During the Forbearance Period, JPMorgan Chase and M&T Bank each have agreed to continue to make revolving loans available to us. Pursuant to the Forbearance and Amendment, the aggregate amount of JPMorgan Chase’s and M&T Bank’s revolving loan commitment has been reduced from $20 million to $15 million. During the Forbearance Period, the applicable revolving interest rate and the applicable term interest rate, in each case as set forth in the credit agreement, both shall be increased by 25 basis points. In addition to a number of technical and conforming amendments, the Forbearance and Amendment revised the definition of “Change in Control” in the credit facility to provide that the acquisition of equity interests representing more than 30% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding equity interests of us shall constitute a “Change in Control” for purposes of the credit facility. Previously, the equity interest threshold had been set at 20%. As a result of the uncertainty of our ability to comply with the financial covenants within the next year, we are continuing to classify all of the debt associated with this credit facility as a current liability on our balance sheet. While we believe relations with our lenders are good and have received waivers as necessary in the past, there can be no assurance that such waivers will always be obtained when needed. In such case, we believe we have, in the aggregate, sufficient cash, cash generation capabilities from operations, working capital and financing alternatives at our disposal, including but not limited to alternative borrowing arrangements and other available lenders, to fund operations in the normal course. If we are unable to achieve our plans or unforeseen events occur, we may need to implement alternative plans to provide us with sufficient levels of liquidity and working capital. While we believe we could complete our original plans or alternative plans, if necessary, there can be no assurance that such alternatives would be available on acceptable terms and conditions or that we would be successful in our implementation of such plans. The re-payment of the debt outstanding under our credit facility and the vesting of options under certain of our equity compensation plans may both be accelerated if any single shareholder owns more than 30% of our stock. Currently, our largest shareholder owns almost 30% of our stock. Our largest single shareholder is Grace Brothers, Ltd., which, as of its most recent Schedule 13D/A filing, beneficially owned 29.4% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. Also in that same filing, it is noted that Mr. Bradford T. Whitmore, general partner of Grace Brothers, Ltd., has expressed his desire to become a member of our Board of Directors. If Grace Brothers, Ltd. were to increase its ownership to more than 30%, it would be deemed a “change in control” for purposes of our credit facility administered by JP Morgan Chase and for purposes of options granted under our 2004 Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan (“LTIP”). If a “change in control” were to occur, our commercial lenders would be able to demand payment of all amounts outstanding under our existing credit facility and the vesting of all outstanding options granted under our LTIP would be accelerated resulting in a significant expense being charged against our income statement for the period during which the “change in control” occurred, all of which would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in China are subject to unique risks and uncertainties. Our operating facility in China presents risks including, but not limited to, political changes, civil unrest, labor disputes, currency restrictions and changes in currency exchange rates, taxes, and boycotts and other civil disturbances 22 Table of Contents that are outside of our control. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately maintain and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting. We maintain and monitor various internal control processes over our financial reporting. Whenever we acquire a new business or operations, we need to integrate those operations with our existing control processes, which can prove to be a challenge if the acquired business had not been required to have such controls in effect. We are in the process of integrating McDowell into our business and assimilating McDowell’s operations, services, products and personnel with our management policies, procedures and strategies. We are in the process of remediating several noted internal control deficiencies that have been identified at McDowell. (See Item 9A for additional information.) While we work to ensure a stringent control environment, it is possible that we may fail to adequately maintain and monitor our various internal control processes over our financial reporting. Any such failure could result in internal control deficiencies that might be considered to be material weaknesses. Such material weaknesses in internal controls would be indicative of potential factors that could impact the financial results we report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 