ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A decline in demand for products or services using our batteries or communications systems could reduce demand for our products or services. A substantial portion of our business depends on the continued demand for products or services using our batteries and communications systems sold by our customers, including OEM’s. Our success depends significantly upon the success of those customers’ products or services in the marketplace. We are subject to many risks beyond our control that influence the success or failure of a particular product or service offered by a customer, including: • competition faced by the customer in its particular industry, • market acceptance of the customer’s product or service, • the engineering, sales, marketing and management capabilities of the customer, • technical challenges unrelated to our technology or products faced by the customer in developing its products or services, and • the financial and other resources of the customer. For instance, in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006, 2007, 32%, 27% and 17% of our revenues, respectively, were comprised of sales of our 9-volt batteries, and of this, approximately 21%, 47% and 41%, respectively, pertained to sales to smoke alarm OEMs. If the retail demand for long-life smoke alarms decreases significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers may not meet the volume requirements in our supply agreements. We sell most of our products and services through supply agreements and contracts. While supply agreements and contracts contain volume-based pricing based on expected volumes, industry practices dictate that pricing is rarely adjusted retroactively when contract volumes are not achieved. Every effort is made to adjust future prices accordingly, but the ability to adjust prices is generally based on market conditions. Our growth and expansion strategy could strain or overwhelm our resources. Rapid growth of our business could significantly strain management, operations and technical resources. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our products and services, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products and increased levels of services to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. For example, the large contracts received from the U.S. military for our batteries using cylindrical cells could strain the current capacity capabilities of our manufacturing facilities and require additional equipment and time to build a sufficient support infrastructure. This demand could also create working capital issues for us, as we may need increased liquidity to fund purchases of raw materials and supplies. We cannot assure, however, that business will grow rapidly or that our efforts to expand manufacturing and quality control activities will be successful or that we will be able to satisfy commercial scale production requirements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We have a strategy to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses or through business partnerships, for example joint ventures, in addition to organic growth. Our inability to acquire such businesses, or increased competition for such businesses which could increase our acquisition costs, could adversely affect our growth strategy and results of operations. In addition, our inability to improve the operating margins of businesses we acquire or operate such acquired businesses profitably or to effectively integrate the operations of those acquired businesses could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2006 we acquired McDowell and ABLE, and in 2007 we acquired ISC, SPS and RPS, which added new facilities and operations to our overall business. We experienced some initial operational challenges at McDowell that required a greater amount of management’s time to resolve than we expected. The integration of recent, and future, acquisitions could place an increased burden on our management team which could adversely impact our ability to effectively manage these businesses. We also will be required to continue to improve our operations, management and financial systems and controls in order to remain competitive. The failure to manage growth and expansion effectively could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our acquisitions and business partnerships may not result in the revenue growth and profitability that we expect. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions. We are integrating our acquisitions into our business and assimilating their operations, services, products and personnel with our management policies, procedures and strategies. We cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth and profitability that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with the integration of these acquisitions. To effectively manage our expected growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational and information technology systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls to accommodate these acquisitions. If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. The U.S. and foreign governments can audit our contracts with their respective military and government agencies and, under certain circumstances, can adjust the economic terms of those contracts. A significant portion of our business comes from sales of products and services to the U.S. and foreign governments through various contracts. These contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations that lay out policies and procedures for acquiring goods and services. The regulations also contain guidelines for managing contracts after they are awarded, including conditions under which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience or for default. Failure to comply with the procurement laws or regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines, penalties, suspension of payments, or suspension or disbarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. We have had certain “exigent”, non-bid contracts with the U.S. government that have been subject to an audit and final price adjustment and have resulted in decreased margins compared with the original terms of the contracts. As of December 31, 2007, there were no outstanding exigent contracts with the U.S. government. As part of its due diligence, the U.S. government has conducted post-audits of the completed exigent contracts to ensure that information used in supporting the pricing of exigent contracts did not differ materially from actual results. In September 2005, the Defense Contracting Audit Agency (“DCAA”) presented its findings related to the audits of three of the exigent contracts, suggesting a potential pricing adjustment of approximately $1,400 related to reductions in the cost of materials that occurred prior to the final negotiation of these contracts. We have reviewed these audit reports, have submitted our response to these audits and believe, taken as a whole, the proposed audit adjustments can be offset with the consideration of other compensating cost increases that occurred prior to the final negotiation of the contracts. While we believe that potential exposure exists relating to any final negotiation of these proposed adjustments, we cannot reasonably estimate what, if any, adjustment may result when finalized. In addition, in June 2007, we received a request from the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Defense (“DoD IG”) seeking certain information and documents relating to our business with the Department of Defense. We are cooperating with the DoD IG inquiry and have furnished the requested information and documents. At this time we have no basis for assessing whether we might face any penalties or liabilities on account of the DoD IG inquiry. The aforementioned DCAA-related adjustments could reduce margins and, along with the aforementioned DoD IG inquiry, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to the contract rules and procedures of the U.S. and foreign governments. These rules and procedures create significant risks and uncertainties for us that are not usually present in contracts with private parties. We will continue to develop battery products, communications systems and services to meet the needs of the U.S. and foreign governments. We compete in solicitations for awards of contracts. The receipt of an award, however, does not usually result in the immediate release of an order and does not guarantee in any way any given volume of orders. Any delay of solicitations or anticipated purchase orders by, or future failure of, the U.S. or foreign governments to purchase products manufactured by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in these scenarios we are typically required to successfully meet contractual specifications and to pass various qualification-testing for the products under contract. Our inability to pass these tests in a timely fashion, as well as meet delivery schedules for orders released under contract, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. When a government contract is awarded, there is a government procedure that permits unsuccessful companies to formally protest such award if they believe they were unjustly treated in the evaluation process. As a result of these protests, the government is precluded from proceeding under these contracts until the protests are resolved. A prolonged delay in the resolution of a protest, or a reversal of an award resulting from such a protest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenues is derived from certain key customers. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from contracts with the U.S. and foreign militaries or OEMs that supply the U.S. and foreign militaries. In the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, approximately 45%, 47%, and 67% respectively, of our revenues were comprised of sales made directly or indirectly to the U.S. and foreign militaries. We have three major customers: the U.S. Department of Defense, that comprised 25%, 20%, and 14% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively; the U.K. Ministry of Defence, that comprised 6%, 7%, and 12% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively; and Raytheon Company, that comprised 1%, 3%, and 13% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total revenues in those years. While sales to these customers were substantial during 2007, we do not consider these customers to be significant credit risks. Government decisions regarding military deployment and budget allocations to fund military operations may have an impact on the demand for our products and services. If the demand for products and services from the U.S. or foreign militaries were to decrease significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not distribute our products to a concentrated geographical area nor is there a significant concentration of credit risks arising from individuals or groups of customers engaged in similar activities, or who have similar economic characteristics. Two customers comprised 42% of our trade accounts receivables as of December 31, 2007. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total trade accounts receivables as of December 31, 2007. One customer comprised 22% of our total trade accounts receivables as of December 31, 2006. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total trade accounts receivables as of December 31, 2006. We do not normally obtain collateral on trade accounts receivable. Our efforts to develop new commercial applications for our products could fail. Although we are involved with developing certain products for new commercial applications, we cannot assure that volume acceptance of our products will occur due to the highly competitive nature of the business. There are many new product and technology entrants into the marketplace, and we must continually reassess the market segments in which our products can be successful and seek to engage customers in these segments that will adopt our products for use in their products. In addition, these companies must be successful with their products in their markets for us to gain increased business. Increased competition, failure to gain customer acceptance of products, the introduction of competitive technologies or failure of our customers in their markets could have a further adverse effect on our business. We may incur significant costs because of the warranties we supply with our products. With respect to our battery products, we typically offer warranties against any defects due to product malfunction or workmanship for a period up to one year from the date of purchase. With respect to our communications systems products, we typically offer up to a four-year warranty. We also offer a 10-year warranty on our 9-volt batteries that are used in ionization-type smoke alarms. We provide for a reserve for these potential warranty expenses, which is based on an analysis of historical warranty issues. There is no assurance that future warranty claims will be consistent with past history, and in the event we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, there is no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to certain safety risks, including the risk of fire, inherent in the manufacture and use of lithium batteries. Due to the high energy inherent in lithium batteries, our lithium batteries can pose certain safety risks, including the risk of fire. We incorporate procedures in research, development, product design, manufacturing processes and the transportation of lithium batteries that are intended to minimize safety risks, but we cannot assure that accidents will not occur or that our products will not be subject to recall for safety concerns. Although we currently carry insurance policies which cover loss of the plant and machinery, leasehold improvements, inventory and business interruption, any accident, whether at the manufacturing facilities or from the use of the products, may result in significant production delays or claims for damages resulting from injuries. While we maintain what we believe to be sufficient casualty liability coverage to protect against such occurrences, these types of losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may incur significant costs because of known and unknown environmental matters. National, state and local laws impose various environmental controls on the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of batteries and of certain chemicals used in the manufacture of batteries. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations and that, except as noted below, there are no environmental conditions that will require material expenditures for clean-up at our present or former facilities or at 19 Table of Contents facilities to which we have sent waste for disposal, there can be no assurance that changes in such laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. There can be no assurance that additional or modified regulations relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our batteries or restricting disposal of batteries will not be imposed or how these regulations will affect us or our customers, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In conjunction with our purchase/lease of our Newark, New York facility in 1998, we entered into a payment-in-lieu of tax agreement, which provides us with real estate tax concessions upon meeting certain conditions. In connection with this agreement, a consulting firm performed a Phase I and II Environmental Site Assessment, which revealed the existence of contaminated soil and ground water around one of the buildings. We have submitted various work plans to the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (“NYSDEC”) regarding further environmental testing and sampling in order to determine the scope of any additional remediation. We subsequently met with the NYSDEC in March 2006 to discuss the results. On June 30, 2006, the Final Investigation Report was delivered to the NYSDEC by our outside environmental firm. In November 2006, the NYSDEC completed its review of the Final Investigation Report and requested additional groundwater, soil and sediment sampling. A work plan to address the additional investigation was submitted to the NYSDEC in January 2007 and was approved in April 2007. Additional investigative work was performed in May 2007. A preliminary report of results was prepared by our outside environmental consulting firm in August 2007, and a meeting with the NYSDEC and the New York State Department of Health (“NYSDOH”) took place in September 2007. As a result of this meeting, NYSDEC and NYSDOH have requested additional investigation work. A work plan to address this additional investigation was submitted to and approved by the NYSDEC in November 2007. Additional investigation work was performed in December 2007 and we are awaiting the results of the work from our environmental consulting firm. The results of the additional investigation requested by the NYSDEC may increase the estimated remediation costs modestly. At December 31, 2007, we have reserved $85 for this matter. The ultimate resolution of this matter may result in us incurring costs in excess of what we have reserved. The future regulatory direction of the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directives, as they pertain to our products, is uncertain. Their potential impact to our business would become material if battery packs were to be included in new guidelines and we were unable to procure materials in a timely manner. Other associated risks related to these directives include excess inventory risk due to a write off of non- compliant inventory. We continue to monitor the regulatory activity of the European Union to ascertain such risks. China’s “Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products Regulation” (“China RoHS”) provides a two-step, broad regulatory framework, including similar hazardous substance restrictions as are imposed by the European Union’s RoHS Directive, and apply to methods for the control and reduction of pollution and other public hazards to the environment caused during the production, sale, and import of electronic information products (“EIP”) in China affecting a broad range of electronic products and parts, with an implementation date of March 1, 2007. Currently, only the first step of the regulatory framework of China RoHS, which details marking and labeling requirements under Standard SJT11364-2006 (“Marking Standard”), is in effect. However, the methods under China RoHS only apply to EIP placed in the marketplace in China. Additionally, the Marking Standard does not apply to components sold to OEMs for use in other EIP. Our sales in China are limited to sales to OEMs and to distributors who supply to OEMs. Should our sales strategy change to include direct sales to end-users, our compliance system is sufficient to meet our requirements under China RoHS. Our current estimated costs associated with our compliance with this regulation based on our current market share and strategy are not significant. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of China RoHS, and actual costs could differ from our current estimates. Any inability to comply with changes to the regulations for the shipment of our products could limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner. The transportation of non-rechargeable and rechargeable lithium batteries is regulated by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”) and corresponding International Air Transport Association (“IATA”) Dangerous Goods Regulations and the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code (“IMDG”) and in the U.S. by the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”). These regulations are based on the United Nations Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations and the United Nations Manual of Tests and Criteria. We currently ship our products pursuant to ICAO, IATA and PHMSA hazardous goods regulations. New regulations that pertain to all lithium battery manufacturers went into effect in January 2008, and additional regulations will go into effect in 2009 and 2010. The regulations require companies to meet certain testing, packaging, labeling and shipping specifications for safety reasons. We comply with all current U.S. and international regulations for the shipment of our products, and we intend and expect to comply with any new regulations that are imposed. We have established our own testing facilities to ensure that we comply with these regulations. If we are unable to comply with the new regulations, however, or if regulations are introduced that limit our ability to transport our 20 Table of Contents products to customers in a cost-effective manner, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our supply of raw materials and components could be disrupted. Certain materials and components used in our products are available only from a single or a limited number of suppliers. As such, some materials and components could become in short supply resulting in limited availability and/or increased costs. Additionally, we may elect to develop relationships with a single or limited number of suppliers for materials and components that are otherwise generally available. Due to our involvement with supplying military products to the government, we could receive a government preference to continue to obtain critical supplies to meet military production needs. However, if the government did not provide us with a government preference in such circumstances, the difficulty in obtaining supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that alternative suppliers are available to supply materials and components that could replace materials and components currently used and that, if necessary, we would be able to redesign our products to make use of such alternatives, any interruption in the supply from any supplier that serves as a sole source could delay product shipments and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced interruptions of product deliveries by sole source suppliers in the past, and we cannot guarantee that we will not experience a material interruption of product deliveries from sole source suppliers in the future. Additionally, we could face increasing pricing pressure from our suppliers dependent upon volume, due to rising costs by these suppliers that could be passed on to us in higher prices for our raw materials, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any inability to protect our proprietary and intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce competing products based on our proprietary and intellectual property. Our success depends more on the knowledge, ability, experience and technological expertise of our employees than on the legal protection of patents and other proprietary rights. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. We cannot guarantee the degree of protection these various claims may or will afford, or that competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, customers, consultants and strategic partners. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection these contractual measures may or will afford. We have had patents issued and have patent applications pending in the U.S. and elsewhere. We cannot assure (1) that patents will be issued from any pending applications, or that the claims allowed under any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology, (2) that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or (3) as to the degree or adequacy of protection any patents or patent applications may or will afford. If we are found to be infringing third party patents, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses with respect to such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain necessary licenses could delay product shipment or the introduction of new products, and costly attempts to design around such patents could foreclose the development, manufacture or sale of products. The loss of key personnel could significantly harm our business, and the ability and technical competence of persons we hire will be critical to the success of our business. Because of the specialized, technical nature of our business, we are highly dependent on certain members of our management, marketing, engineering and technical staff. The loss of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to developing manufacturing capacity to produce high volumes of batteries, we must attract, recruit and retain a sizeable workforce of technically competent employees. Our ability to pursue effectively our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful recruitment and retention of additional highly skilled and experienced managerial, marketing, engineering and technical personnel, and the integration of such personnel obtained through business acquisitions. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain or recruit this type of personnel. An inability to hire sufficient numbers of people or to find people with the desired skills could result in greater demands being placed on limited management resources which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to competition from other manufacturers and suppliers of portable and standby batteries, communications systems and services. We compete with other manufacturers and suppliers of non-rechargeable and rechargeable portable and standby batteries, communications systems and services. We cannot assure that we will successfully compete with these manufacturers and suppliers, many of which have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, marketing, sales and other resources. Our products could become obsolete. The market for our products is characterized by changing technology and evolving industry standards, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product lifecycles. Although we believe that our products are comprised of state-of-the-art technology, there can be no assurance that competitors will not develop technologies or products that would render our technologies and products obsolete or less marketable. Many of the companies with which we compete have substantially greater resources than us, and some have the capacity and volume of business to be able to produce their products more efficiently than we can at the present time. In addition, these companies are developing or have developed products using a variety of technologies that are expected to compete with our technologies. If these companies successfully market their products in a manner that renders our technologies obsolete, there will be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. We maintain manufacturing operations in the North America, Europe and Asia, and we export products to various countries. We purchase materials and sell our products in foreign currencies, and therefore currency fluctuations may impact our pricing of products sold and materials purchased. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries maintain their books in local currency, and the translation of those subsidiary financial statements into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results, due to changes in local currency relative to the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards in the future may be limited, which could have an adverse impact on our tax liabilities. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $83,700 of net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, available to offset future taxable income. We continually assess the carrying value of this asset based on the relevant accounting standards. As of December 31, 2007, we reflected a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax asset and have reflected a net deferred tax asset of $0 in the United States and in the United Kingdom due to our current assessment that it is more likely than not to not be realized. As we continue to assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets, the amount of the valuation allowance could be reduced. In addition, certain of our NOL carryforwards are subject to U.S. alternative minimum tax such that carryforwards can offset only 90% of alternative minimum taxable income. Achieving our business plan targets, particularly those relating to revenue and profitability, is integral to our assessment regarding the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset. We have determined that a change in ownership, as defined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382, has occurred. As such, the domestic net operating loss carryforward will be subject to an annual limitation estimated to be in the range of approximately $12,000. This limitation did not have an impact on income taxes determined for 2007. Such a limitation could result in the possibility of a cash outlay for income taxes in a future year when earnings exceed the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that can be used by us. Our quarterly and annual results and the price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year depending on factors such as the timing and shipment of significant orders, new product introductions, delays in customer releases of purchase orders, delays in receiving raw materials from vendors, the mix of distribution channels through which we sell our products and services and general economic conditions. Frequently, a substantial portion of our revenue in each quarter is generated from orders booked and fulfilled during that quarter. As a result, revenue levels are difficult to predict for each quarter. If revenue results are below expectations, operating results will be adversely affected as we have a sizeable base of fixed overhead costs that do not fluctuate much with the changes in revenue. Due to such variances in operating results, we have sometimes failed to meet, and in the future may not meet, market expectations or even our own guidance regarding our future operating results. 22 Table of Contents In addition to the uncertainties of quarterly and annual operating results, future announcements concerning us or our competitors, including technological innovations or commercial products, litigation or public concerns as to the safety or commercial value of one or more of our products may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially for reasons which may be unrelated to our operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We may be unable to obtain financing to fund ongoing operations and future growth. While we believe that our revenue growth projections and our ongoing cost controls will allow us to generate cash and achieve profitability in the foreseeable future, there is no assurance as to when or if we will be able to achieve our projections. Our future cash flows from operations, combined with our accessibility to cash and credit, may not be sufficient to allow us to finance ongoing operations or to make required investments for future growth. In addition, recent significant orders have required us to ramp up our supply chain quickly, and this will result in a need for additional working capital. We may need to seek additional credit or access capital markets for additional funds. There is no assurance that we would be successful in this regard. We have certain debt covenants that must be maintained in accordance with the provisions of our credit facility. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to meet these debt covenants in the future. If we default on any of our debt covenants and we are unable to renegotiate credit terms in order to comply with such covenants, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe relations with our lenders are good and have received waivers as necessary in the past, there can be no assurance that such waivers will always be obtained when needed. In such case, we believe we have, in the aggregate, sufficient cash, cash generation capabilities from operations, working capital and financing alternatives at our disposal, including but not limited to alternative borrowing arrangements and other available lenders, to fund operations in the normal course for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to achieve our plans or unforeseen events occur, we may need to implement alternative plans to provide us with sufficient levels of liquidity and working capital. While we believe we could complete our original plans or alternative plans, if necessary, there can be no assurance that such alternatives would be available on acceptable terms and conditions or that we would be successful in our implementation of such plans. The re-payment of the debt outstanding under our credit facility and the vesting of options under certain of our equity compensation plans may both be accelerated if any single shareholder owns more than 30% of our stock. Currently, our largest shareholder owns in excess of 25% of our stock. Our largest single shareholder is Grace Brothers, Ltd., which, as of its most recent Schedule 13D/A filing, beneficially owned 26.3% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. On June 6, 2007, Mr. Bradford T. Whitmore, general partner of Grace Brothers, Ltd., became a member of our Board of Directors. If Grace Brothers, Ltd. were to increase its ownership to more than 30%, it would be deemed a “change in control” for purposes of our credit facility administered by JP Morgan Chase and for purposes of options granted under our 2004 Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan, or LTIP. If a “change in control” were to occur, our commercial lenders would be able to demand payment of all amounts outstanding under our existing credit facility and the vesting of all outstanding options granted under our LTIP would be accelerated resulting in a significant expense being charged against our income for the period during which the “change in control” occurred, all of which would have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations in China are subject to unique risks and uncertainties. Our operating facility in China presents risks including, but not limited to, political changes, civil unrest, labor disputes, currency restrictions and changes in currency exchange rates, taxes, duties, import and export laws and boycotts and other civil disturbances that are outside of our control. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately maintain and monitor our internal controls over financial reporting. We maintain and monitor various internal control processes over our financial reporting. Whenever we acquire a new business or operations, we need to integrate those operations with our existing control processes, which can prove to be a challenge if the acquired business had not been required to have such controls in effect. We are in the process of 23 Table of Contents integrating our recently acquired companies into our business and assimilating their operations, services, products and personnel with our management policies, procedures and strategies. While we work to ensure a stringent control environment, it is possible that we may fail to adequately maintain and monitor our various internal control processes over our financial reporting. Any such failure could result in internal control deficiencies that might be considered to be material weaknesses. Such material weaknesses in internal controls would be indicative of potential factors that affect the reliability of our financial statements and other reported financial information and impact the financial results we report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 