ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A significant portion of our revenues is derived from certain key customers. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from contracts with the U.S. and foreign militaries or OEMs that supply the U.S. and foreign militaries. In the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 65%, 65%, and 75% respectively, of our revenues were comprised of sales made directly or indirectly to the U.S. and foreign militaries. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we had two major customers, U.S Department of Defense and Port Electronics Corp., which comprised 11% and 10% of our revenue, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we had one major customer, the U.S. Department of Defense, which comprised 26% of our revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we had two major customers, Raytheon Company and Port Electronics Corp., which comprised 29% and 16% of our revenue, respectively. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total revenues during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. While sales to these customers were substantial during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we do not consider these customers to be significant credit risks. Government decisions regarding military deployment and budget allocations to fund military operations may have an impact on the demand for our products and services. If the demand for products and services from the U.S. or foreign militaries were to decrease significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our overall operating results are affected by many factors, including the timing of orders from our key customers and the timing of expenditures to manufacture parts and purchase inventory in anticipation of future orders of products and services. Because we make significant sales to U.S. and foreign militaries or OEMS that supply the U.S. or foreign militaries, we are subject to the effects of delays in the government budget process and the decisions to deploy resources to support military purchases of our products. The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our key customers for any reason or the loss of one or more of our key customers could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We neither distribute our products to a concentrated geographical area nor is there a significant concentration of credit risks arising from individuals or groups of customers engaged in similar activities, or who have similar economic characteristics. We have no customers that comprised greater than 10% of our trade accounts receivables as of December 31, 2010. We have two customers that comprised 45% of our trade accounts receivables as of December 31, 2009. There were no other customers that comprised greater than 10% of our total trade accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009. We do not normally obtain collateral on trade accounts receivable. A decline in demand for products or services using our batteries or communications systems could reduce demand for our products or services. A substantial portion of our business depends on the continued demand for products or services using our batteries and communications systems sold by our customers, including OEM’s. Our success depends significantly upon the success of those customers’ products or services in the marketplace. We are subject to many risks beyond our control that influence the success or failure of a particular product or service offered by a customer, including: • competition faced by the customer in its particular industry, • market acceptance of the customer’s product or service, • the engineering, sales, marketing and management capabilities of the customer, • technical challenges unrelated to our technology or products faced by the customer in developing its products or services, and • the financial and other resources of the customer. For instance, in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 11%, 11% and 8% of our revenues, respectively, were comprised of sales of our 9-volt batteries, and of this, approximately 25%, 34% and 39%, respectively, pertained to sales to smoke alarm OEMs. If the retail demand for long-life smoke alarms decreases significantly, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers may not meet the volume requirements in our supply agreements. We sell most of our products and services through supply agreements and contracts. While supply agreements and contracts contain volume-based pricing based on expected volumes, industry practices dictate that pricing is rarely adjusted retroactively when contract volumes are not achieved. Every effort is made to adjust future prices accordingly, but our ability to adjust prices is generally based on market conditions. 17 Table of Contents Any impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and other intangible assets, could negatively impact our results of operations. Our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired. Any excess goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets value resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business which adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We are constantly reviewing the costs and the benefits of retiring several of our current brands, the retirement of which could result in a non-cash impairment charge of the associated indefinite-lived intangible asset, reducing operating earnings by the associated amount or amounts on the balance sheet. We have completed our annual impairment analysis for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance, and have concluded that we do have an impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets in the standby power business reporting unit for the year ended December 31, 2010. We recognized an impairment charge of $13,793 to fully write-off the goodwill and intangible assets and partially write-off the fixed assets associated with our standby power business, which is included in the Energy Services segment. There were no other impairments to be recognized in any of the other tested reporting units. However, due to the narrow margin of passing the Step 1 goodwill impairment testing for 2010 in the RedBlack reporting unit, there is potential for a partial or full impairment of the goodwill value in 2011 if our projected operational results are not achieved. One of the key assumptions for achieving the projected operational results includes significant revenue growth. As of December 31, 2010, the RedBlack reporting unit had a goodwill book value of $2,025. Our acquisitions and business partnerships may not result in the revenue growth and profitability that we expect. In addition, we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions. We are integrating our acquisitions into our business and assimilating their operations, services, products and personnel with our management policies, procedures and strategies. We can provide no assurances that we will achieve revenue growth and profitability that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with the integration of these acquisitions. To effectively manage our expected growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational and information technology systems, internal procedures and management, financial and operational controls to accommodate these acquisitions. If we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. In 2007 we acquired RedBlack, Stationary Power and RPS, in 2008 we formed a joint venture in India and acquired USE, and in 2009 we acquired AMTI, which added new facilities and operations to our overall business. The integration of recent, and future, acquisitions could place an increased burden on our management team which could adversely impact our ability to effectively manage these businesses. Our 2007 and 2008 acquisitions of Stationary Power, RPS and USE, respectively, now collectively referred to as UES, were impacted by overall market conditions including delays in capital spending by the customer base, as well as market disruption caused by the pricing actions of a key supplier. Our ability to quickly rebound from these conditions may strain our management resources and increase our overall spending base to ensure that our other core businesses are not neglected. On March 8, 2011, our senior management, as authorized by our Board of Directors, decided to exit our Energy Services business. As a result of management’s ongoing review of our business segments and products, and taking into account the growth and profitability potential of the Energy Services segment as well as its sizeable operating losses over the last several years, we determined it was appropriate to refocus our operations on profitable growth opportunities presented in our other segments, Battery & Energy Products and Communications Systems. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $13,793 to write-off the goodwill and intangible assets and certain fixed assets associated with the standby power portion of our Energy Services business. We anticipate that the actions taken to exit our Energy Services business will result in the elimination of approximately 40 jobs and the closing of five facilities, primarily in California, Florida and Texas, over several months. We expect to complete all exit activities with respect to our Energy Services segment by the end of the third quarter. Upon completion, we will reclassify our Energy Services segment as a discontinued operation. 18 Table of Contents In connection with the exit activities described above, we expect that we will record total restructuring charges of approximately $3,200, the majority of which are related to employee-related costs, including termination benefits, lease termination costs and inventory and fixed asset write-downs, of which approximately $1,200 will be recorded in the first quarter of 2011. The cash component of the aggregate charge is expected to be approximately $2,200. Our operations in China are subject to unique risks and uncertainties. Our operating facility in China presents risks including, but not limited to, political changes, civil unrest, labor disputes, increase in labor costs, currency restrictions and changes in currency exchange rates, taxes, duties, import and export laws and boycotts and other civil disturbances that are outside of our control. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Delays in the transition of the manufacturing of our 9-volt battery from our Newark, New York manufacturing facility to our manufacturing facility in Shenzhen, China could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In 2010, we announced that we will be transitioning a significant portion of our 9-volt battery manufacturing from our Newark, New York manufacturing facility to our Shenzhen, China manufacturing facility. At December 31, 2010, the transition was still ongoing. Delays in the transition of the manufacturing of our 9-volt battery to China could increase the costs and expenditures of the transition and delay the realization of the anticipated cost savings from the transition. The U.S. and foreign governments can audit our contracts with their respective defense and government agencies and, under certain circumstances, can adjust the economic terms of those contracts. A significant portion of our business comes from sales of products and services to the U.S. and foreign governments through various contracts. These contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations that lay out policies and procedures for acquiring goods and services. The regulations also contain guidelines for managing contracts after they are awarded, including conditions under which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience or for default. Failure to comply with the procurement laws or regulations can result in civil, criminal or administrative proceedings involving fines, penalties, suspension of payments, or suspension or disbarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. We have had certain “exigent”, non-bid contracts with the U.S. government that have been subject to an audit and final price adjustment, which have resulted in decreased margins compared with the original terms of the contracts. As of December 31, 2010, there were no outstanding exigent contracts with the government. As part of its due diligence, the government has conducted post-audits of the completed exigent contracts to ensure that information used in supporting the pricing of exigent contracts did not differ materially from actual results. In September 2005, the Defense Contracting Audit Agency (“DCAA”) presented its findings related to the audits of three of the exigent contracts, suggesting a potential pricing adjustment of approximately $1,400 related to reductions in the cost of materials that occurred prior to the final negotiation of these contracts. We have reviewed these audit reports, have submitted our response to these audits and believe, taken as a whole, the proposed audit adjustments can be offset with the consideration of other compensating cost increases that occurred prior to the final negotiation of the contracts. While we believe that potential exposure exists relating to any final negotiation of these proposed adjustments, we cannot reasonably estimate what, if any, adjustment may result when finalized. In addition, in June 2007, we received a request from the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Defense (“DoD IG”) seeking certain information and documents relating to our business with the Department of Defense. We continue to cooperate with the DCAA Audit and DoD IG inquiry by making available to government auditors and investigators our personnel and furnishing the requested information and documents. The DCAA Audit and DoD IG inquiry have now been consolidated and the US Attorney’s Office is representing the government in connection with these matters. We recently received a settlement proposal from the US Attorney which was based on the non-acceptance of various positions submitted by us in discussions and exchanges related to these matters. We are now reviewing the settlement proposal for purposes of preparing our response. At this time we have no basis for quantifying any penalties or liabilities we might face on account of the DCAA Audit and DoD IG inquiry. The aforementioned DCAA-related adjustments could reduce margins and, along with the aforementioned DoD IG inquiry, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to the contract rules and procedures of the U.S. and foreign governments. These rules and procedures create significant risks and uncertainties for us that are not usually present in contracts with private parties. We will continue to develop battery products, communications systems and services to meet the needs of the U.S. and foreign governments. We compete in solicitations for awards of contracts. The receipt of an award, however, does not always result in the immediate release of an order and does not guarantee in any way any given volume of orders. Any delay of solicitations or anticipated purchase orders by, or future failure of, the U.S. or foreign governments to purchase products manufactured by us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in these scenarios we are typically required to successfully meet contractual specifications and to pass various qualification-testing for the products under contract. Our inability to pass these tests in a timely fashion, as well as meet delivery schedules for orders released under contract, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. When a government contract is awarded, there is a government procedure that permits unsuccessful companies to formally protest such award if they believe they were unjustly treated in the evaluation process. As a result of these protests, the government is precluded from proceeding under these contracts until the protests are resolved. A prolonged delay in the resolution of a protest, or a reversal of an award resulting from such a protest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth and expansion strategy could strain or overwhelm our resources. Rapid growth of our business could significantly strain management, operations and technical resources. If we are successful in obtaining rapid market growth of our products and services, we will be required to deliver large volumes of quality products and increased levels of services to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. For example, the large contracts received from the U.S. military for our batteries using cylindrical cells could strain the current capacity capabilities of our manufacturing facilities and require additional equipment and time to build a sufficient support infrastructure. This demand could also create working capital issues for us, as we may need increased liquidity to fund purchases of raw materials and supplies. We cannot assure, however, that our business will grow rapidly or that our efforts to expand manufacturing and quality control activities will be successful or that we will be able to satisfy commercial scale production requirements on a timely and cost-effective basis. One of our strategies has been to strategically grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses or through business partnerships, for example joint ventures, in addition to organic growth. Our inability to acquire such businesses, or increased competition for such businesses which could increase our acquisition costs, could adversely affect our overall strategy and results of operations. In addition, our inability to improve the operating margins of businesses we acquire or operate such acquired businesses profitably or to effectively integrate or leverage the operations of those acquired businesses could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also will be required to continue to improve our operations, management and financial systems and controls in order to remain competitive. The failure to manage growth and expansion effectively could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The loss of key personnel could significantly harm our business, and the ability and technical competence of persons we hire will be critical to the success of our business. Because of the specialized, technical nature of our business, we are highly dependent on certain members of our management, sales, engineering and technical staffs. The loss of these employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to effectively pursue our business strategy will depend upon, among other factors, the successful retention of our key personnel, recruitment of additional highly skilled and experienced managerial, sales, engineering and technical personnel, and the integration of such personnel obtained through business acquisitions. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain or recruit this type of personnel. An inability to hire sufficient numbers of people or to find people with the desired skills could result in greater demands being placed on limited management resources which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. During the latter half of 2009, we experienced unusually high turnover in our management ranks. Our Chief Operating Officer, our Vice-President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer, our Vice-President of Manufacturing, our Vice-President of Sales and our Director of Technology resigned. During 2010, our Executive Vice-President of Business Development resigned and our Vice-President — Corporate Communications Officer passed away. While these individuals have been replaced by qualified, experienced personnel, or through the restructuring of our operations, it is too early to determine the overall impact on our business of such turnover and the additional responsibilities placed on existing personnel. In addition, in December 2010, our President and Chief Executive Officer retired. While this individual has been replaced by a qualified, experienced individual, it is too early to determine any impact on our business of such change in leadership. 20 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain financing to fund ongoing operations and future growth. While we believe our improved gross margins and cost control actions will allow us to generate cash and achieve profitability in the future, there is no assurance as to when or if we will be able to achieve our projections. Our future cash flows from operations, combined with our accessibility to cash and credit, may not be sufficient to allow us to finance ongoing operations or to make required investments for future growth. We may need to seek additional credit or access capital markets for additional funds. There is no assurance, given our historical operating performance, that we would be successful in this regard. We may not generate a sufficient amount of cash or generate sufficient funds from operations to fund our operations or repay our indebtedness at maturity or otherwise. Our ability to draw funds and make payments on our asset-based credit facility will depend on our ability to consistently generate cash flow from operations in the future. This ability, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs or to repay our indebtedness. We may not be able to achieve the covenants as set forth in our asset based lending facility with RBS Capital. Our ability to successfully meet the covenants as set forth in our lending facility will depend on our generation of EBITDA from each of our domestic legal entities in line with our projections. Our lending facility includes a fixed charge ratio which we must achieve on a quarterly basis to avoid default. The existence of an event of default would significantly impact our ability to draw funds from our credit facility, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to ensure compliance with the covenants of our lending facility. In the event of a default, our interest rate will increase by 200 basis points during the default period. We face risks related to general domestic and global economic conditions. In general, our operating results can be significantly affected by negative economic conditions, high labor, material and commodity costs and unforeseen changes in demand for our products and services. These risks are heightened as economic conditions globally have deteriorated significantly and may not fully recover to historical levels in the short-term. The current economic conditions could continue to have a negative impact on demand for our products and services, which may have a direct negative impact on our sales and profitability, as well as our ability to generate sufficient internal cash flows or access credit at reasonable rates to meet future operating expenses, service debt and fund capital expenditures. Our efforts to develop new commercial applications for our products could fail. Although we are involved with developing certain products for new commercial applications, we cannot provide assurance that acceptance of our products will occur due to the highly competitive nature of the business. There are many new product and technology entrants into the marketplace, and we must continually reassess the market segments in which our products can be successful and seek to engage customers in these segments that will adopt our products for use in their products. In addition, these companies must be successful with their products in their markets for us to gain increased business. Increased competition, failure to gain customer acceptance of products, the introduction of competitive technologies or failure of our customers in their markets could have a further adverse effect on our business. We may incur significant costs because of the warranties we supply with our products and services. With respect to our battery products, we typically offer warranties against any defects due to product malfunction or workmanship for a period up to one year from the date of purchase. With respect to our communications systems products, we now offer up to a three-year warranty. Previously, we had offered up to a four-year warranty. We also offer a 10-year warranty on our 9-volt batteries that are used in ionization-type smoke alarms. With respect to the installation of our standby power systems, we offer a warranty over the installation, generally restrictive to meeting the customers’ performance specifications. We provide for a reserve for these potential warranty expenses, which is based on an analysis of historical warranty issues. There is no assurance that future warranty claims will be consistent with past history, and in the event we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, there is no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to certain safety risks, including the risk of fire, inherent in the manufacture, use and transportation of lithium batteries. Due to the high energy inherent in lithium batteries, our lithium batteries can pose certain safety risks, including the risk of fire. We incorporate procedures in research, development, product design, manufacturing processes and the transportation of lithium batteries that are intended to minimize safety risks, but we cannot assure that accidents will not occur or that our products will not be subject to recall for safety concerns. Although we currently carry insurance policies which cover loss of the plant and machinery, leasehold improvements, inventory and business interruption, any accident, whether at the manufacturing facilities or from the use of the products, may result in significant production delays or claims for damages resulting from injuries. While we maintain what we believe to be sufficient casualty liability coverage to protect against such occurrences, these types of losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We may incur significant costs because of known and unknown environmental matters. National, state and local laws impose various environmental controls on the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of batteries and of certain chemicals used in the manufacture of batteries. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental regulations and that, except as noted below, there are no environmental conditions that will require material expenditures for clean-up at our present or former facilities or at facilities to which we have sent waste for disposal, there can be no assurance that changes in such laws and regulations will not impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. There can be no assurance that additional or modified regulations relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our batteries or restricting disposal of batteries will not be imposed or how these regulations will affect us or our customers, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The future regulatory direction of the European Union’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directives, as they pertain to our products, is uncertain. Their potential impact to our business would become material if battery packs were to be included in new guidelines and we were unable to procure materials in a timely manner. Other associated risks related to these directives include excess inventory risk due to a write off of non-compliant inventory. We continue to monitor the regulatory activity of the European Union to ascertain such risks. China’s “Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products Regulation” (“China RoHS”) provides a two-step, broad regulatory framework, including similar hazardous substance restrictions as are imposed by the European Union’s RoHS Directive, and apply to methods for the control and reduction of pollution and other public hazards to the environment caused during the production, sale, and import of electronic information products (“EIP”) in China affecting a broad range of electronic products and parts, which was implemented on March 1, 2007. Currently, only the first step of the regulatory framework of China RoHS, which details marking and labeling requirements under Standard SJT11364-2006 (“Marking Standard”), is in effect. However, the methods under China RoHS only apply to EIP placed in the marketplace in China. Additionally, the Marking Standard does not apply to components sold to OEMs for use in other EIP. Our sales in China are limited to sales to OEMs and to distributors who supply to OEMs. Should our sales strategy change to include direct sales to end-users, our compliance system is sufficient to meet our requirements under China RoHS. Our current estimated costs associated with our compliance with this regulation based on our current market share are not significant. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of this regulation, and actual costs could differ from our current estimates. A number of domestic and international communities are prohibiting the landfill disposal of batteries and requiring companies to make provisions for product recycling. Of particular note are the European Union’s Batteries Directive and the New York State Rechargeable Battery Recycling law. We are committed to responsible product stewardship and ongoing compliance with these and future regulations. The compliance costs associated with current recycling regulations are not expected to be significant at this time. However, we continue to evaluate the impact of this regulation, and actual costs could differ from our current estimates. In conjunction with our purchase/lease of our Newark, New York facility in 1998, a consulting firm performed a Phase I and II Environmental Site Assessment, which revealed the existence of contaminated soil and ground water around one of the buildings. We have submitted various work plans to the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (“NYSDEC”) and the New York State Department of Health (“NYSDOH”) regarding further environmental testing and sampling in order to determine the scope of any additional remediation. Our environmental consulting firm prepared and submitted a Final Investigation Report in January 2009 to the NYSDEC for review. The NYSDEC reviewed and approved the Final Investigation Report in June 2009 and requested the 22 Table of Contents development of a Remedial Action Plan. Our environmental consulting firm developed and submitted the requested plan for review and approval by the NYSDEC. In October 2009, we received comments back from the NYSDEC regarding the content of the remediation work plan. Our environmental consulting firm incorporated the requested changes and submitted a revised work plan to the NYSDEC in January 2010 for review and approval. Upon approval from the NYSDEC, environmental remediation work was completed in July and August 2010. Our environmental consulting firm prepared a Final Engineering report which was submitted to the NYSDEC for review and approval in October 2010. Comments on the Final Engineering report and associated documents were received from the NYSDEC in December 2010. Our environmental consulting firm revised the Final Engineering report and submitted the report and associated documents to the NYSDEC for review and approval in January 2011. At December 31, 2010, we have reserved $22 for this matter. The ultimate resolution of this matter may result in us incurring costs in excess of what we have reserved. Any inability to comply with changes to the regulations for the shipment of our products could limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner. The transportation of lithium batteries is regulated by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”) and corresponding International Air Transport Association (“IATA”) Dangerous Goods Regulations and the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code (“IMDG”) and in the U.S. by the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”). These regulations are based on the United Nations Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations and the United Nations Manual of Tests and Criteria. We currently ship our products pursuant to ICAO, IATA and PHMSA hazardous goods regulations. The regulations require companies to meet certain testing, packaging, labeling and shipping specifications for safety reasons. We have not incurred, and do not expect to incur, any significant costs in order to comply with these regulations. We believe we comply with all current U.S. and international regulations for the shipment of our products, and we intend and expect to comply with any new regulations that are imposed. We have established our own testing facilities to ensure that we comply with these regulations. If we are unable to comply with the new regulations, however, or if regulations are introduced that limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our lead acid products have been tested and have been deemed to meet all requirements as specified in 49CFR 173.159 (d) for exception as hazardous material classification. Our lead acid batteries have been tested and have been deemed to meet all requirements as specified in the special provision 238 for determination of “Non-Spillable” and are not subject to the provision of 49CFR 173.159 (d). Our supply of raw materials and components could be disrupted. Certain materials and components used in our products are available only from a single or a limited number of suppliers. As such, some materials and components could become in short supply resulting in limited availability and/or increased costs. Additionally, we may elect to develop relationships with a single or limited number of suppliers for materials and components that are otherwise generally available. Due to our involvement with supplying defense products to the government, we could receive a government preference to continue to obtain critical supplies to meet military production needs. However, if the government did not provide us with a government preference in such circumstances, the difficulty in obtaining supplies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe that alternative suppliers are available to supply materials and components that could replace materials and components currently used and that, if necessary, we would be able to redesign our products to make use of such alternatives, any interruption in the supply from any supplier that serves as a sole source could delay product shipments and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced interruptions of product deliveries by sole source suppliers in the past, and we cannot guarantee that we will not experience a material interruption of product deliveries from sole source suppliers in the future. Additionally, we could face increasing pricing pressure from our suppliers dependent upon volume due to rising costs by these suppliers that could be passed on to us in higher prices for our raw materials, which could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Any inability to protect our proprietary and intellectual property could allow our competitors and others to produce competing products based on our proprietary and intellectual property. Our success depends more on the knowledge, ability, experience and technological expertise of our employees than on the legal protection of patents and other proprietary rights. We claim proprietary rights in various unpatented technologies, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks relating to products and manufacturing processes. We cannot guarantee the degree of protection these various claims may or will afford, or that competitors will not independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. We protect our proprietary rights in our products and operations through contractual obligations, including nondisclosure agreements with certain employees, customers, consultants and strategic partners. There can be no assurance as to the degree of protection these contractual measures may or will afford. We have had patents issued and have patent applications pending in the U.S. and elsewhere. We cannot assure (1) that patents will be issued from any pending applications, or that the claims allowed under any patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology, (2) that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or (3) as to the degree or adequacy of protection any patents or patent applications may or will afford. If we are found to be infringing third party patents, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain licenses with respect to such patents on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain necessary licenses could delay product shipments or the introduction of new products, and costly attempts to design around such patents could foreclose the development, manufacture or sale of products. Our products could become obsolete. The market for our products is characterized by changing technology and evolving industry standards, often resulting in product obsolescence or short product lifecycles. Although we believe that our products are comprised of state-of-the-art technology, there can be no assurance that competitors will not develop technologies or products that would render our technologies and products obsolete or less marketable. Many of the companies with which we compete have substantially greater resources than we do, and some have the capacity and volume of business to be able to produce their products more efficiently than we can at the present time. In addition, these companies are developing or have developed products using a variety of technologies that are expected to compete with our technologies. If these companies successfully market their products in a manner that renders our technologies obsolete, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. We maintain manufacturing operations in North America, Europe and Asia, and we export products to various countries. We purchase materials and sell our products in foreign currencies, and therefore currency fluctuations may impact our pricing of products sold and materials purchased. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries maintain their books in local currency, and the translation of those subsidiary financial statements into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial results, due to changes in local currency relative to the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to use our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards in the future may be limited, which could have an adverse impact on our tax liabilities. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $53,188 of net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL’s”) available to offset future taxable income. We continually assess the carrying value of this asset based on the relevant accounting standards. As of December 31, 2010, we reflected a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax asset to the extent the asset is not able to be offset by future reversing temporary differences. As a result, we have reflected a net deferred tax liability of $3,698 in the U.S. We have reflected a net deferred tax asset of $-0- in the U. K. and China due to our current assessment that it is more likely than not to not be realized. As we continue to assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets, the amount of the valuation allowance could be reduced. In addition, certain of our NOL carryforwards are subject to U.S. alternative minimum tax such that carryforwards can offset only 90% of alternative minimum taxable income. Achieving our business plan targets, particularly those relating to revenue and profitability, is integral to our assessment regarding the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset. We have determined that a change in ownership, as defined under Internal Revenue Code Section 382, occurred in 2005 and 2006. As such, the domestic NOL carryforward will be subject to an annual limitation estimated to be in the range of approximately $12,000 to $14,500. This limitation did not have an impact on income taxes determined for 2010. Such a limitation could result in the possibility of a cash outlay for income taxes in a future year when earnings exceed the amount of NOL carryforwards that can be used by us. The use of our U.K. NOL carryforwards may be limited due to the change in the U.K. operation during 2008 from a manufacturing and assembly center to primarily a distribution and service center. 24 Table of Contents Our quarterly and annual results and the price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year depending on factors such as the timing and shipment of significant orders, new product introductions, delays in customer releases of purchase orders, delays in receiving raw materials from vendors, the mix of distribution channels through which we sell our products and services and general economic conditions. Frequently, a substantial portion of our revenue in each quarter is generated from orders booked and fulfilled during that quarter. As a result, revenue levels are difficult to predict for each quarter. If revenue results are below expectations, operating results will be adversely affected as we have a sizeable base of fixed overhead costs that do not fluctuate much with the changes in revenue. Due to such variances in operating results, we have sometimes failed to meet, and in the future may not meet, market expectations or even our own guidance regarding our future operating results. In addition to the uncertainties of quarterly and annual operating results, future announcements concerning us or our competitors, including technological innovations or commercial products, litigation or public concerns as to the safety or commercial value of one or more of our products may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially for reasons which may be unrelated to our operating results. These fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The re-payment of the debt outstanding under our credit facility and the vesting of options under certain of our equity compensation plans may both be accelerated by the triggering of a “change in control” as defined in our credit facility and Long-Term Incentive Plan. Our largest single shareholder is Grace Brothers, Ltd., which beneficially owns, along with Bradford T. Whitmore, 29.6% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. On June 6, 2007, Mr. Bradford T. Whitmore, general partner of Grace Brothers, Ltd., became a member of our Board of Directors and was elected Chair of the Board of Directors on March 25, 2010. If Grace Brothers, Ltd. or any other beneficial owner were to increase its ownership to more than 30%, it would be deemed a “change in control” for purposes of our 2004 Amended and Restated Long Term Incentive Plan, or LTIP. If a “change in control” were to occur, the vesting of most of the outstanding options granted under our LTIP would be accelerated resulting in a significant expense being charged against our income for the period during which the “change in control” occurred. An increase in ownership to 49% or more by any beneficial owner with 5% ownership as of February 17, 2010, or to 30% by any new owner, or any owner with less than 5% ownership as of February 17, 2010, would result in a default under our new credit facility with RBS Capital. Either of these events could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 