Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position or results of operations. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from what we projected. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business or financial position. Risks Related to Our Limited Sources of Revenue Our future revenue is primarily dependent upon option, milestone and contingent royalty payments from Auxilium and contingent earn out payments from DFB. Our primary sources of revenues are from (i) option, milestone and contingent royalty payments from Auxilium under the Auxilium Agreement, (ii) contingent earn out payments from DFB and (iii) the sale of small amounts of collagenase for laboratory research. As described in Item 1 above, under the Auxilium Agreement, in exchange for the right to receive royalties and other payments, we granted to Auxilium the right to develop, manufacture, market and sell worldwide products (other than dermal formulations for topical administration) that contain collagenase for the treatment of Dupuytren’s contracture, Peyronie’s disease, and frozen shoulder. However, we have no control over Auxilium’s ability to successfully market, sell and manufacture candidate products for the treatment of Dupuytren’s contracture, or, in the case of Peyronie’s disease and frozen shoulder, to pursue commercialization, and we may receive limited, if any, royalty payments from Auxilium. In addition, there is no guarantee that the XIAFLEX-specific CPT codes for the injection procedure and the finger extension or manipulation procedure administered after the injection will meet the expectations of physicians or significantly or quickly increase sales of XIAFLEX. Moreover, under the Auxilium Agreement, royalty payments are subject to set-off for certain expenses we owe Auxilium related to development and patent costs. We received our first royalty payment from Auxilium in November 2011 because the amount of royalties exceeded accrued set-off expenses for the first time. We anticipate that the amount of royalties due to us will exceed the amount of any set-offs on a going forward basis. We have received in the past, and are entitled to receive in the future, certain milestone payments from Auxilium in respect of its efforts to commercialize candidate products, but we have no control over Auxilium’s ability to achieve the milestones. Additionally, we have received in the past, and are entitled to receive in the future, 8.5% of all sublicense income that Auxilium receives from Pfizer under the Pfizer Agreement, which payments are dependent on the achievement by Pfizer of certain regulatory and sales related milestones, of which we have no control. We have also granted to Auxilium the right to initiate early stage development of XIAFLEX for the treatment of cellulite, and Auxilium will be responsible for all costs associated with such early stage development. Auxilium has the option, upon completion of such early stage development and upon its payment to us of a one-time fee of $500,000, to add the treatment of cellulite to the list of Auxilium exercised indications, in which case we would receive milestone payments and royalties for further cellulite development. Even if Auxilium exercises its option with respect to cellulite, its obligations to develop the product for such indication are limited to initiating Stage II Development (as defined in the Auxilium Agreement) for such indication within one year of exercising the option as to such indication. In addition, we have granted to Auxilium an option to expand its license and development rights to one or more additional indications for injectable collagenase not currently licensed to Auxilium, including for the treatment of human and canine lipoma. If Auxilium exercises its option with respect to an additional indication, we are entitled to receive a one-time license fee for the rights to, as well as potential milestone, royalty and other payments with respect to, such new indication. If Auxilium does not exercise its option as to any additional indication, we may offer to any third party such development rights with regard to products in the Auxilium Territory, provided that we first offer the same terms to Auxilium, or develop the product ourselves. Auxilium has no obligation to exercise its option with respect to any such additional indication, and its decision to do so is in its complete discretion. Clinical trials can be expensive and the results are subject to different interpretations, therefore, there is no assurance that after conducting Phase II clinical trials on any additional indication, and incurring the associated expenses, Auxilium will exercise its option or we will receive any revenue from it. Under the Auxilium Agreement, we may only offer to a third party development rights with regard to products in the Auxilium Territory and not in the Pfizer Territory. Auxilium’s ability to develop or commercialize additional indications in the Pfizer Territory are subject to negotiation with Pfizer under the terms of the Pfizer Agreement. Even if Auxilium exercises its option as to any additional indication, its obligations to develop the product for such indication are limited to initiating Stage II Development (as defined in the Auxilium Agreement) for such additional indication within one year of exercising the option as to such indication. 16 Table of Content As part of the sale of our topical collagenase business to DFB, we are entitled to receive earn out payments in respect of sales of certain products developed and manufactured by DFB that contain collagenase for topical administration. However, our right to receive earn out payments from DFB is dependent upon DFB’s decision to pursue the manufacture and commercialization of such products and its ability to achieve certain sales thresholds. We also agreed to provide technical assistance to DFB’s affiliate, DPT Lakewood, for a fixed period of time in consideration for certain payments and we are required to maintain certain scientific resources and records in order to provide such assistance and be entitled to receive such payments. These obligations expired during March 2011. Our dependence upon revenue from Auxilium and DFB make us subject to the commercialization and other risk factors affecting those two companies over which we have limited or no control. Auxilium has disclosed in its securities filings a number of risk factors to consider when evaluating its business and future prospects. Given our dependence upon revenue from Auxilium, Auxilium’s operating success or failure has a significant impact on our potential royalty stream and other payment rights. As such, we refer you to the full text of Auxilium’s disclosed risk factors in its securities filings, which were most recently included in the Auxilium 10-K. DFB is not a publicly traded company and therefore we have little information about its business and future prospects. Although we cannot be certain, we presume that many of the risk factors affecting Auxilium’s business may have some bearing in evaluating DFB’s ability to generate sufficient sales of topical collagenase products to entitle us to receive any earn out payments. If we are unable to obtain option, milestone, earn out and royalty payments from Auxilium or DFB or meet our needs for additional funding from other sources, we may be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations. Our business strategy contains elements that we will not be able to implement if we do not receive the anticipated option, milestone, royalty or earn out payments from Auxilium or DFB, or secure additional funding from other sources. While we anticipate being profitable on an ongoing, annual basis, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: ● DFB’s ability to meet its payment obligations and to manufacture and commercialize topical collagenase products for which we would receive earn out payments until June 2013, when DFB’s obligations to us terminate, absent the introduction of a second generation product as defined in the DFB Agreement; ● Auxilium’s ability to manufacture and commercialize XIAFLEX for which we would receive milestone and royalty payments; ● Pfizer’s ability to develop and commercialize XIAPEX in the Pfizer Territory and Auxilium’s receipt of milestone payments from Pfizer under the Pfizer Agreement for which we would receive a percentage of sublicense income and royalty payments (for more information regarding Auxilium’s financial risks associated with Pfizer under the Pfizer Agreement, we refer you to the full text of Auxilium’s disclosed risk factors in its securities filings, which were most recently included in the Auxilium 10-K); ● the amount actually owed to Auxilium for certain patent costs; ● the scope, rate of progress, cost and results of our clinical trials on additional indications, including human and canine lipoma, for which Auxilium could exercise its option to acquire rights to them, and whether Auxilium exercises the option; ● the rate of progress and results of Auxilium’s development of XIAFLEX for the treatment of cellulite, for which we granted Auxilium the right to initiate clinical studies and Auxilium is responsible for development costs, and whether Auxilium pursues development beyond the early stages; 17 Table of Content ● the terms and timing of any future collaborative, licensing, co-promotion and other arrangements that we may establish; and ● the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights or defending against any other litigation. These factors could result in variations from our currently projected operating requirements. If our existing resources are insufficient to satisfy our operating requirements, we may need to limit, scale back or cease operations or, in the alternative, borrow money. Given our operations and history, we may not be able to borrow money on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we issue any equity or debt securities, the terms of such issuance may not be acceptable to us and would likely result in substantial dilution of our stockholders’ investment. If we do not receive revenues from Auxilium or DFB, and are unable to secure additional financing, we may be required to cease operations. In order to finance and to secure the rights to conduct clinical trials for products we have licensed to Auxilium, we have granted to third parties significant rights to share in royalty payments received by us. To finance and secure the rights to conduct clinical trials for products we have licensed to Auxilium, we have granted to third parties certain rights to share in royalty payments received by us from Auxilium under the Auxilium Agreement. Consequently, we will be required to share a significant portion of the payments due from Auxilium under the Auxilium Agreement. If we breach our agreements with third parties, our business could be materially harmed. Our agreements with third parties impose on us various obligations, such as those related to intellectual property rights, non-competition, and development of products, as described throughout this Item 1A of this Report. If we fail to comply with such obligations, or a counterparty to our agreements believes that we have failed to comply with such obligations, we may be sued and the costs of the resulting litigation could materially harm our business. Risks Related to Clinical Trials and Development of Drug Candidates Our ability to conduct clinical trials may be limited by the Auxilium Agreement. Under the Auxilium Agreement, we have the right to conduct trials, studies or development work for, among other things, indications in canine lipomas and human lipomas, and, upon approval by the parties’ joint development committee (“JDC”), additional indications. Auxilium has pre-approved our protocols for canine lipomas and human lipomas. However, certain material changes to the protocols must be approved by the JDC, and the JDC may decide not to approve such changes if the JDC has reasonable safety concerns. In addition, the JDC has the right to stop a study or trial in canine lipomas and human lipomas if the rate of serious adverse events exceeds certain thresholds. If the JDC fails to approve changes to our protocols for canine lipomas and human lipomas or if the JDC stops our studies or trials in canine lipomas and human lipomas due to safety concerns, our ability to obtain option, milestone and royalty payments with respect to those indications would be limited. We may only conduct trials, studies or development work for additional indications beyond the pre-approved indications upon submission to and approval by the JDC of our development plan. In the case of indications in keloids, capsular contraction after breast augmentation, arthrofibrosis following total joint replacement in humans and equine suspensory ligament desmitis, the JDC may reject our submission only for reasonable safety concerns. The JDC may reject our submission for any other additional indications for safety or commercial concerns. If the JDC rejects our submissions in any additional indications, our ability to obtain option, milestone and royalty payments with respect to those additional indications would be limited. 18 Table of Content We are dependent on Auxilium for access to XIAFLEX, which may limit our ability to conduct clinical trials and to obtain the associated option, milestone and contingent royalty payments under the Auxilium Agreement. Under the Auxilium Agreement, we have agreed to buy at cost plus a mark-up XIAFLEX from Auxilium for conducting our trials, studies and development work. If Auxilium does not supply XIAFLEX to us, our ability to conduct clinical trials using XIAFLEX would be limited because we do not have the right to make XIAFLEX or to purchase it from third parties. Moreover, our ability to use our own clinical material may be limited both by lack of availability and by certain potential regulatory restrictions. Without adequate supply of clinical material our ability to obtain additional option, milestone and royalty payments under the Auxilium Agreement would be limited. If clinical trials in humans or veterinarian trials for our potential new indications are delayed, we may not be able to obtain option, milestone or royalty payments under the Auxilium Agreement for new indications. Clinical trials that we or our investigators may conduct may not begin on time or may need to be restructured or temporarily suspended after they have begun. Clinical trials can be delayed or may need to be restructured for a variety of reasons, including delays or restructuring related to: · changes to the regulatory approval process for product candidates; · obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; · timing of responses required from regulatory authorities; · negotiating acceptable clinical trial agreement terms with prospective investigators or trial sites; · obtaining institutional review board, or equivalent, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; · recruiting subjects to participate in a clinical trial; · competition in recruiting clinical investigators; · shortage or lack of availability of clinical trial supplies from external and internal sources; · the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or poorly executed testing; · failure to validate a patient-reported outcome questionnaire; · the placement of a clinical hold on a study; · the failure of third parties conducting and overseeing the operations of our clinical trials to perform their contractual or regulatory obligations in a timely fashion; and · exposure of clinical trial subjects to unexpected and unacceptable health risks or noncompliance with regulatory requirements, which may result in suspension of the trial. The process of conducting clinical trials and developing product candidates involves a high degree of risk and may take several years, and may ultimately not be successful. Product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for several reasons, including: ● clinical trials may show product candidates to be ineffective or not as effective as anticipated or to have harmful side effects or any unforeseen result; ● product candidates may fail to receive regulatory approvals required to bring the products to market; ● manufacturing costs, the inability to scale up to produce supplies for clinical trials or other factors may make our product candidates uneconomical; and ● the proprietary rights of others and their competing products and technologies may prevent product candidates from being effectively commercialized or from obtaining exclusivity. 19 Table of Content Success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that large-scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by a regulatory authority varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Any changes to the U.S. regulatory approval process could significantly increase the timing or cost of regulatory approval for product candidates making further development uneconomical or impossible. In addition, with respect to cellulite and, once Auxilium exercises its option with respect to any additional indications, further clinical trials, development, manufacturing, marketing and selling of such product are out of our control. Our interest is limited to receiving option, milestone and royalty payments, and the option in certain circumstances to manufacture according to particular specifications set by Auxilium. Successful development of drug candidates is inherently difficult and uncertain, and our long-term prospects depend upon our ability and the ability of our partners, particularly with respect to XIAFLEX, to continue to successfully commercialize these drug candidates. Successful development of drugs is inherently difficult and uncertain. Our business requires investments in research and development over many years, often for drug candidates that may fail during the research and development process. Even if the Company is able to successfully complete the development of our drug candidates, our long-term prospects depend upon our ability and the ability of our partners, particularly with respect to XIAFLEX, to continue to successfully commercialize these drug candidates. There is significant uncertainty regarding our ability to successfully develop drug candidates in other indications. These risks include the uncertainty of: · the nature, timing and estimated costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our drug candidate projects; · the anticipated completion dates for our drug candidate projects; · the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials that we are currently running or may commence in the future with respect to our drug candidate projects; · the scope, rate of progress of our preclinical studies and other research and development activities related to our drug candidate projects; · clinical trial results for our drug candidate projects; · the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights relating to our drug candidate projects; · the terms and timing of any strategic alliance, licensing and other arrangements that we have or may establish in the future relating to our drug candidate projects; · the cost and timing of regulatory approvals with respect to our drug candidate projects; and · the cost of establishing clinical supplies for our drug candidate projects. Risks Related to Our Agreements with Auxilium and DFB Our ability to conduct clinical trials and develop products for injectable administration of collagenase is limited by the Auxilium Agreement. Under the Auxilium Agreement, we have licensed or granted options to certain of our rights to conduct clinical trials and develop products for injectable administration of collagenase. We agreed, for example, to certain non-competition provisions, which may limit our clinical development activities. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and develop products for topical administration of collagenase is limited by the agreement we have signed with DFB. Under the DFB Agreement, we have sold, licensed, or granted options to certain of our rights to conduct clinical trials and develop products for topical administration of collagenase. Under the terms of the DFB Agreement, we have agreed to certain non-competition provisions, which may limit our clinical development activities. 20 Table of Content Risks Related to Regulatory Requirements We are subject to numerous complex regulatory requirements and failure to comply with these regulations, or the cost of compliance with these regulations, may harm our business. Conducting clinical trials for human drugs and, in certain circumstances, veterinarian trials for animal drugs, and the testing, development and manufacturing and distribution of product candidates are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, if we desire to export the resulting products to such other jurisdictions. These regulations govern or affect the testing, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record-keeping, approval, distribution, advertising and promotion of product candidates, as well as safe working conditions. Noncompliance with any applicable regulatory requirements can result in suspension or termination of any ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate or refusal of the government to approve a product candidate for commercialization, criminal prosecution and fines, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, prohibitions or limitations on the commercial sale of products or refusal to allow the entering into of federal and state supply contracts. The FDA and comparable governmental authorities have the authority to suspend or terminate any ongoing clinical trials of a product candidate or withdraw product approvals that have been previously granted. Even after a product candidate has been approved, the FDA and comparable governmental authorities subject such product to continuing review and regulatory requirements including, for example, requiring the conducting and reporting of the results of certain clinical studies or trials and commitments to voluntarily conduct additional clinical trials. In addition, regulatory approval could impose limitations on the indicated or intended uses for which product candidates may be marketed. With respect to its approval of XIAFLEX for the treatment of adult Dupuytren’s contracture patients with a palpable cord, for example, the FDA has required a REMS program consisting of a communication plan and a medication guide. Currently, there is a substantial amount of congressional and administrative review of the FDA and the regulatory approval process for drug candidates in the U.S. As a result, there may be significant changes made to the regulatory approval process in the U.S. In addition, the regulatory requirements relating to the development, manufacturing, testing, promotion, marketing and distribution of product candidates may change in the U.S. Such changes may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Additionally, failure to comply with, or changes to applicable regulatory requirements may result in a variety of consequences, including the following: ● restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes; ● warning letters; ● withdrawal of a product from the market; ● voluntary or mandatory recall of a product; ● fines; ● suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for a product; ● refusal to permit the import or export of our products; ● refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; ● denial of permission to file an application or supplement in a jurisdiction; ● product seizure; and ● injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties against us. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs relating to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. 21 Table of Content We are a small company and we rely heavily on third parties and outside consultants to conduct many important functions. As a biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to a large body of legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, as a publicly traded company we are subject to significant regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”), some of which have only recently been revised or adopted. We cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with all potentially applicable laws and regulations could lead to the imposition of fines, cause the value of our common stock to decline, impede our ability to raise capital or list our securities on certain securities exchanges. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with these rules and regulations. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls over external financial reporting or such controls may fail or be circumvented. SOX requires us to report annually on our internal controls over financial reporting, and our business and financial results could be adversely effected if we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine that these controls are not effective. In addition, any failure or circumvention of our internal controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations concerning controls and procedures could have a material effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees and as executive officers. Risks Related to Growth and Employees Adverse events or lack of efficacy in clinical trials may force us and/or our partners upon whom we are wholly dependent to stop development of our product candidates or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates or significant safety issues could arise after regulatory approval of our products, any of which could materially harm our business. The prescribing information for XIAFLEX for Dupuytren’s contracture made available by Auxilium lists “tendon ruptures or other serious injury to the injected extremity” as a reported serious adverse reaction to XIAFLEX and states that the most frequently reported adverse drug reactions in XIAFLEX clinical trials included swelling of the injected hand, contusion, injection site reaction, injection site hemorrhage, and pain in the treated extremity. The prescribing information notes that adverse reaction rates observed in clinical trials of a drug may not reflect those observed in practice because such trials “are conducted under widely varying conditions.” Auxilium reported in the Auxilium 10-K that the most common adverse events in the Peyronie’s phase IIb clinical trial were “injection site bruising, injection site pain, injection site edema, contusion, penile edema and penile pain.” Adverse events or lack of efficacy may force us to stop development of our product candidates or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates, which could materially harm our business. In addition, any adverse events or lack of efficacy may force Auxilium to stop development of the products we have licensed to it or prevent regulatory approval of such products, which could materially impair all or a material part of the future revenue we hope to receive from Auxilium. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, new safety issues may be reported and we or our partners may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. We and our licensees face competition in our product development and marketing efforts from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other not-for-profit institutions. We and our licensees face competition in our product development and marketing efforts from entities that have substantially greater research and product development capabilities and greater financial, scientific, marketing and human resources. These entities include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and not-for-profit institutions. Our and our licensees’ competitors may succeed in developing products or intellectual property earlier than we or our licensees do, entering into successful collaborations before us or our licensees, obtaining approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for such products before us or our licensees, or developing or marketing products that are more effective than those we or our licensees could develop or market. The success of any one competitor in these or other respects will have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to receive option payments from Auxilium or our ability to generate revenues from third party arrangements with respect to additional indications for which Auxilium does not exercise its option. 22 Table of Content Because of the specialized nature of our business, the termination of relationships with key management, consulting and scientific personnel or the inability to recruit and retain additional personnel could prevent us from developing our technologies, conducting clinical trials and/or obtaining financing. The competition for qualified personnel in the biotechnology field is intense, and we rely heavily on our ability to attract and contract with qualified independent scientific and medical investigators, and technical and managerial personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and other research institutions. To the extent we are unable to attract and retain any of these individuals on favorable terms our business may be adversely affected. If product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities. We continue to have product liability exposure for topical product sold by us prior to the sale of our topical business to DFB. In addition, under the Auxilium Agreement, we are obligated to indemnify Auxilium and its affiliates for any harm or losses they suffer relating to any personal injury and other product liability resulting from our development, manufacture or commercialization of any injectable collagenase product. In addition, the clinical testing and, if approved, commercialization of our product candidates involves significant exposure to product liability claims. We have clinical trial and product liability insurance in the aggregate amount of $5 million dollars that we believe is adequate in both scope and amount and has been placed with what we believe are reputable insurers. We may not be able to maintain our clinical trial and product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all, and this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential claims or losses. If losses from product liability claims exceed our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial liabilities that exceed our financial resources, and our business and results of operations may be harmed. Whether or not we are ultimately successful in product liability litigation, such litigation could consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources, and might result in adverse publicity, all of which could impair our business. If we are unable to negotiate a new lease for our corporate headquarters or relocate, our existing operations and our operating results could be adversely affected. As described in this Report under “Item 2 - Description of Property”, we are holding over in our current premises on a month-to-month basis. If we are unable to negotiate a new lease for our current premises or relocate to other premises, our existing operations and operating results could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Rights If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are critical to our business and our business could be harmed. We are a party to a number of license agreements by which we have acquired rights to use the intellectual property of third parties that are necessary for us to operate our business. If any of the parties terminates its agreement, whether by its terms or due to our breach, our right to use the party’s intellectual property may negatively affect our licenses to Auxilium or DFB and, in turn, their obligation to make option, milestone, contingent royalty or other payments to us. Our ability and the ability of our licensors, licensees and collaborators to develop and license products based on our patents may be impaired by the intellectual property of third parties. Auxilium’s, DFB’s and our commercial success in developing and manufacturing collagenase products based on our patents is dependent on these products not infringing the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. While we currently believe that we, our licensees, licensors and collaborators have freedom to operate in the collagenase market, others may challenge that position in the future. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. 23 Table of Content Third parties could bring legal actions against us, our licensees, licensors or collaborators claiming damages and seeking to enjoin clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing of the affected product or products. A third party might request a court to rule that the patents we in-licensed or licensed to others, or those we may in-license in the future, are invalid or unenforceable. In such a case, even if the validity or enforceability of those patents were upheld, a court might hold that the third party’s actions do not infringe the patent we in-license or license to others, which could, in effect, limit the scope of our patent rights and those of our licensees, licensors or collaborators. Our agreements with Auxilium and DFB require us to indemnify them against any claims for infringement based on the use of our technology. If we become involved in any litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If Auxilium or DFB becomes involved in such litigation, it could also consume a substantial portion of their resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation, thereby jeopardizing their ability to commercialize candidate products and/or their ability to make option, milestone or royalty payments to us. If any of these actions is successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license to permit ourselves, our licensees, licensors or our collaborators to conduct clinical trials, manufacture or market the affected product, in which case we may be required to pay substantial royalties or grant cross-licenses to our patents. However, there can be no assurance that any such license will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Ultimately, we, our licensees, licensors or collaborators could be prevented from commercializing a product, or forced to cease some aspect of their or our business, as a result of patent infringement claims, which could harm our business or right to receive option, milestone and contingent royalty payments. Risks Related to our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock could negatively affect our stock price. If our common stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stock price may decline and our existing stockholders may experience dilution of their interests. Because we historically have not declared dividends, stockholders must rely on an increase in the stock price for any return on their investment in us. Our stock price has, in the past, been volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop below the current price. Our stock price has, at times, been volatile. Currently, our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Market (“Nasdaq”) and is thinly traded. Market prices for securities of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and specialty pharmaceutical companies have been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: ● results of our clinical trials; ● failure of any product candidates we have licensed to Auxilium or sold to DFB to achieve commercial success; ● regulatory developments in the U.S. and foreign countries; ● developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; ● litigation involving us or our general industry, or both; ● future sales of our common stock by the estate of our former Chairman and CEO or others; ● changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems, including developments in price control legislation; ● departure of key personnel; ● announcements of material events by those companies that are our competitors or perceived to be similar to us; ● changes in estimates of our financial results; ● investors’ general perception of us; and ● general economic, industry and market conditions. 24 Table of Content If any of these risks occurs, or continues to occur, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. In addition, purchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program may, depending on the timing and volume of such repurchases, result in our stock price being higher than it would be in the absence of such repurchases. If repurchases pursuant to the program are discontinued, our stock price may fall. We may become subject to stockholder activism efforts that could cause material disruption to our business. Certain influential institutional investors, hedge funds and other stockholders have taken steps to involve themselves in the governance and strategic direction of certain companies due to governance or strategic related disagreements between such companies and such stockholders. If we become subject to such stockholder activism efforts, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have no current plan to pay dividends on our common stock and investors may lose the entire amount of their investment. We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, investors will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares. We cannot assure investors of a positive return on their investment when they sell their shares nor can we assure that investors will not lose the entire amount of their investment. Our outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock could have a possible dilutive effect. As of December 31, 2011, options to purchase 1,261,425 shares of common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of December 31, 2011 a total of 269,098 options were available for grant under our stock option plans. The issuance of common stock upon the exercise of these options could adversely affect the market price of the common stock or result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. If securities analysts do not publish research reports about our business or if they downgrade us or our sector, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on research reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If analysts downgrade us or any of our licensees, or other research analysts downgrade the industry in which we operate or the stock of any of our competitors or licensees, the price of our common stock will probably decline. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or frustrate a change in control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions: ● provide for a classified board of directors; ● give our Board the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of our common stock; ● limit the ability of the stockholders to call special meetings; and ● impose advance notice requirements on stockholders concerning the election of directors and other proposals to be presented at stockholder meetings. 25 Table of Content In addition, during May 2002, the Board implemented a rights agreement (commonly known as a “Poison Pill”), which effectively discourages or prevents acquisitions of more than 15% of our common stock in transactions (mergers, consolidations, tender offer, etc.) that have not been approved by our Board. The Board amended the Poison Pill in February 2011 to increase the threshold from 15% to 18% and extended the expiration date of the Poison Pill for an additional two years, to May 31, 2014. These provisions could make it more difficult for common stockholders to replace members of the Board. Because our Board is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. If our principal stockholders, executive officers and directors choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations, acting in their own best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of March 12, 2012 our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned shares representing approximately 29.6% of our common stock. Beneficial ownership includes shares over which an individual or entity has investment or voting power and includes shares that could be issued upon the exercise of options within 60 days. As a result, if these stockholders were to choose to act together, they may be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, these individuals, if they chose to act together, could control the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to other stockholders. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Item IB. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 