Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion highlights certain risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for our existing and potential stockholders to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to generate sufficient funds to sustain our operations through the next twelve months. Accordingly the report from our independent registered public accounting firm's contains included with the financial statements for this Annual Report in Form 10-K an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which contemplate continuation of the Company as a going concern and the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities presented in the financial statements do not purport to represent realizable or settlement values. The Company has no significant revenue, has suffered significant recurring operating losses and needs to sell additional products and/or raise additional capital in order to be able to accomplish its business plan objectives. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. 11 Management believes that currently available funds may not be sufficient to sustain our operations at current levels through the next twelve months. The Company incurred a net loss of $5,787,113 during the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008. For the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008, net cash used by operating activities was $6,632,289. As of October 31, 2008, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $4,658,169 and had negative working capital of $2,783,843. The Company has historically obtained funds to operate is business through the sale of equity and debt instruments, through the receipt of deposits and installment payments in respect of sales of its products and the receipt of payments in connection with entering into distributorship agreements. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008, the Company did not receive any cash proceeds from the issuance and sale of its equity or debt instruments. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008, the Company received installments payments in the aggregate amount of $2,655,012 in conjunction with two sales agreements. Subsequent to October 31, 2008, the Company has not received any additional payments in connection with these sales agreements. The Company has been and continues to be dependent upon the deposits and installment payments from the execution of distributorship agreements, sales of our products and sales of our securities. Our ability to continue to operate as a going concern depends, for the most part, on our ability to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of our products and/or the receipt of additional capital from one or more financing sources. Due to the fact that we have been unsuccessful in consummating additional sales of our products or otherwise raising additional capital, we have had to rely on a portion of the funds we received as non-refundable customer deposits in connection with the two sales agreements for our products to cover operating expenses. Management is continuing its efforts to sell our products and to secure additional funds through the receipt of additional capital. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell our products or that we will be able to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to sell our products or raise additional capital, we will be forced to utilize the remaining balance of our non-refundable customer deposits to remain a viable entity and accordingly, we might need to significantly restrict or discontinue our operations. We have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our potential for future success. We were formed in May 1991. We were considered a development stage company for accounting purposes until 1998 because we did not generate any material revenues through that date. We started to recognize revenues from shipments and services in 1999. To date, we have generated very limited revenues from the sale of our products and do not expect to generate significant revenues until we sell a larger number of our products. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies like ours in an evolving market, such as unforeseen capital requirements, failure of market acceptance of our products, failure to establish business relationships and competitive disadvantages as against larger and more established companies. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business will be materially harmed. 12 Current and future conditions in the global economy and global capital markets may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers and potential customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. If the global economic slowdown continues for significant periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. There is no assurance that unforeseen circumstances will not have a material effect on the business that could require us to raise additional capital or take other measures to conserve liquidity in order to sustain operations. We have historically raised funds through the sale of equity and debt instruments, through the receipt of deposits and installment payments in respect of sales of its products and the receipt of payments in connection with entering into distributorship agreements. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008, we did not raise any capital. In addition, through October 31, 2008, we received payments of $2,655,012 in conjunction with two new sales agreements. Subsequent to October 31, 2008, we have not received any additional payments in connection with these sales agreements, nor have we raised any capital; however we did receive a payment of $200,000 on January 23, 2009 in connection with entering into a new distributorship agreement. There is no assurance that unforeseen circumstances will not have a material effect on the business that could require us to raise additional capital or take other measures to conserve liquidity in order to sustain operations. There can be no assurance that we will be to raise additional capital on favorable terms, or at all, in the future. We have incurred substantial operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We also have only delivered and installed two Plasma Converter Systems. We have incurred substantial losses in each year since we commenced operations. We must overcome significant manufacturing and marketing hurdles to sell our products. As we strive to grow our business, we expect to spend significant funds for general corporate purposes, including working capital and marketing, and for research and development. To the extent that our revenues do not increase as quickly as these costs and expenditures, or at all, our results of operations and liquidity will be materially and adversely affected. If we experience slower than anticipated revenue growth or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may never achieve profitability. Even if we are profitable in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability. To date we have only delivered and installed two Plasma Converter Systems, one for the demonstration phase of a U.S. Army program in 1999, and one for commercial use in Japan that was delivered in August 2001 and installed in April 2002. We had revenues of $157,448 and $745,898 for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and our net loss for each of these periods was $5,787,113 and $3,889,534, respectively. We do not expect to generate any material revenues until after we successfully complete the sale and installation of a significant number of Plasma Converter Systems. We expect losses to increase as a result of "business as usual" expenses in the near future as we continue to attempt to expand our marketing efforts and demonstrate our technology to potential customers. In addition, generally we will not recognize revenue from the sale of our Plasma Converter System until the system is shipped, and accordingly, will continue to incur losses until we have been able to sell and ship enough Plasma Converter Systems to offset our expenses. If we are unable to sell our Plasma Converter Systems and thereby increase revenues and we continue to operate at a loss, our results of operations and liquidity will be materially and adversely affected, and the market price of our common stock will likely decline. We cannot guarantee that we will ever be profitable. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to enhance our Plasma Converter System and technologies and fund further product developments. As a result, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we do not achieve and maintain profitability, the market price for our common stock may further decline, perhaps substantially, and we may have to curtail or cease our operations. 13 We have not yet sold the Plasma Converter System on a large - scale commercial basis which may limit our sales and revenue. No one, including us, has ever utilized our Plasma Converter System under the conditions and in the volumes that will be required to achieve profitability, nor has the Plasma Converter System been utilized on a large-scale commercial basis. While we believe that we have demonstrated the Plasma Converter System's ability to process and dissociate waste feedstocks and recover resources in pilot scale and industrial-sized Plasma Converter Systems, there is no guarantee that the same or similar results could be obtained on a large-scale continuing commercial basis or on any specific project. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to design and build systems that handle many tons of material per day and operate continuously. However, if our systems do not operate as we expect, it will significantly limit our sales and revenue, our results of operation and liquidity will be materially and adversely affected and the market price of our common stock will likely decline in value. Our future success depends in part on our ability to consummate and achieve milestones, and we may be unable to do so. To date, we have only delivered and installed two Plasma Converter Systems and we have only entered into two agreements for the commercial sale of a five ton-per-day, or TPD, and three (3) ten TPD Plasma Converter Systems, which have not been installed or delivered to the customers. On the sales we have made to date, we have received payments in installments, with an initial down payment and the balance due upon the achievement of certain milestones, for example, upon shipment of the Plasma Converter System, which milestones will be set forth in a contract with our customer, which may be different for each customer. There can be no assurances that we will be able to achieve milestones, including those with our existing customers, or that our customers will make installment payments upon achieving these milestones. Our Plasma Converter Systems may contain component, manufacturing or design defects or may not meet performance criteria established by customers, which could cause us to incur significant repair expenses, harm our customer relationships and industry reputation, and reduce our revenues and profitability. There is no assurance that our Plasma Converter Systems will meet our customers' expectations. Furthermore, we may experience manufacturing problems with our products. As a result of component, manufacturing or design defects, we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of products, incurring significant expenses as a result. In addition, any component, manufacturing or design defect could cause us to lose customers or revenues or damage our customer relationships and industry reputation. The length of our sales cycle requires us to invest substantial financial and technical resources in a potential sale before we deliver products. Our products are highly technical and the sales cycle can be long. The sales cycle can take up to 18 months without any delays, and we incur significant expenses as part of this process without any assurance of resulting revenues other than the down-payment received when a contract is signed and possibly other interim installment payments required by our contracts. The length of our product development and sales cycle makes us particularly vulnerable to the loss of a significant customer or a significant reduction in orders by a customer because we may be unable to quickly replace the lost or reduced sales. Due to the lengthy sales cycles of our products and services, the timing of our sales is difficult to predict and may cause us to miss our revenue expectations. Our products and services are typically intended for use in applications that may be critical to a customer's business. In certain instances, the purchase of our products and services may involve a significant commitment of resources by prospective customers. As a result, our sales process may often be subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes. For these and other reasons, the sales cycle associated with the selling of our products and services, we expect, will typically ranges between six and eighteen months and will be affected by delays over which we have little or no control. While potential customers evaluate whether our products and services suit their needs, we may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort, only to realize that the potential customer will not purchase our products and services. Due to lengthy sales cycle for our products and services, we may not realize expected revenues during the quarter in which we expend these significant resources, or at all. We may not be able to assemble and deliver our Plasma Converter Systems as quickly as customers may require which could cause us to lose sales and would harm our reputation. We may not be able to assemble our Plasma Converter Systems and deliver them to our customers at the times they require. Manufacturing delays and interruptions can occur for many reasons, including, but not limited to: 14 o the failure of a supplier to deliver needed components on a timely basis or with acceptable quality; o lack of sufficient capacity; o equipment failures; o manufacturing personnel shortages; o labor disputes; o transportation disruptions; o changes in import/export regulations; o changes in the global economy; o natural disasters; o acts of terrorism; and o political instability. Assembly of our products is complex. If we fail to assemble and deliver products in a timely fashion, our reputation may be harmed, we may jeopardize existing orders and lose potential future sales, and we may be forced to pay penalties to our customers. We are dependent on third parties for manufacturing key components which may cause delays in assembly and increased costs to us. We currently have our own assembly facility where we assemble and test systems. We also rely upon third parties for the manufacture of key components. Delays and difficulties in the manufacturing of our products could substantially harm our product development efforts. There are limited sources of supply for some key Plasma Converter System components. Business disruptions, financial difficulties of the manufacturers or suppliers of these components, or raw material shortages could increase the cost of our goods sold or reduce the availability of these components. To date, due to the few number of sales of our system, we have been able to obtain adequate supplies of these key components. If sales accelerate, we may experience a rapid and substantial increase in our need for components. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of required components, we could experience significant delays in manufacturing, which could result in the loss of orders and customers, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we plan to purchase inventories of these strategic components, we may still require alternative sources if we experience delays in obtaining them. If the cost of components increases, we may not be able to pass on price increases to our customers if we are to remain competitively priced. This would reduce profit, which in turn would reduce the value of your investment. Our failure to achieve market acceptance of the Plasma Converter System within our expanded business model would adversely affect our business. The failure to achieve market acceptance of the Plasma Converter System within our expanded business model would affect our profitability, future revenues, and the market price of our common stock and the success of our business. Many prospective users of the Plasma Converter System have committed substantial resources to other forms of material processing treatments or technologies. Our growth and future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to demonstrate to prospective customers the technical and economic advantages of the Plasma Converter System over these alternatives. We may not be successful in this effort. Furthermore, it is possible that competing alternatives may actually have advantages over the Plasma Converter System for certain industries or applications. We have expanded our business to include market penetration strategies in which we have no previous experience. These strategies include build, own and operate facilities, or BOO; build, own and transfer, or BOT, of ownership 15 facilities; and joint development projects. Although certain of our executives have individual experience in these areas we have not, as a company, developed projects of this type in the past. Additionally, our Plasma Converter System represents what we believe to be a new technology and, in many instances, represents a significant departure from existing practices in the waste management marketplace which already have found a high degree of acceptance. Our financial performance will depend, in part, on the future development, growth and ultimate size of the market for waste management technologies generally and the Plasma Converter Systems specifically. If the potential users of waste management products do not perceive appropriate benefits from our Plasma Converter System, or if the Plasma Converter System does not achieve commercial acceptance, our business could be harmed or even fail. The Plasma Converter System competes with more conventional means of waste management. A market for our Plasma Converter System may never develop to the point that profitable operations can be achieved or sustained. 16 A mass market for hydrogen, as an alternative energy source, may never develop or may take longer to develop than anticipated. Alternative energy sources represent emerging technologies, and we do not know whether consumers will adopt these technologies on a large scale. In particular, if a mass market fails to develop, or develops more slowly than anticipated, for hydrogen as an alternative to fossil fuel, our ability to separate hydrogen may not aid us in achieving market acceptance of our primary product, the Plasma Converter System. Thus, we may be unable to achieve or maintain profitability, which could negatively impact our business. Our failure to obtain additional financing, if needed, would adversely affect our business results. We will need additional financing to fund ongoing operations if our sales and revenue growth are insufficient to meet our operating costs. Financing for all of our activities to date has been provided by private placements of our securities. Additional financing may not be available when needed or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, shareholders may incur dilution, and this dilution may be substantial. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, scale back operations or otherwise limit the development, manufacture or sale of Plasma Converter Systems, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and reduce the value of your investment. If the Company is unable to sell its products or raise additional capital, the Company will be forced to utilize the remaining balance of its non-refundable customer deposits to remain a viable entity and accordingly, the Company might need to significantly restrict or discontinue its operations. We face numerous risks associated with our plans to market and distribute the Plasma Converter System domestically. We are currently focusing on marketing of the Plasma Converter System principally in international markets, including both industrialized and developing countries. If we are unable to expand our domestic marketing efforts beyond current levels our prospects for profitability will be substantially reduced. Substantial risks still remain for us to market our product effectively in domestic markets. These risks include: o Political and economic instability. Many of our domestic initiatives involve local government support or funding. Sales to governments may have a long sales cycle. Any change in the political or economic climate during this sales cycle, including the recent recession, may prevent us from making a sale. o Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. We are a small company with limited cash resources. It may be difficult for us to recover monies owed from a domestic customer if we are forced to take legal action. o Protection of intellectual property. The domestic and foreign laws governing intellectual property may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. Even if protected, litigation may result in substantial costs or a diversion of resources. Any of these risks will reduce expected revenues and may prevent us from ever achieving profitability. An inability to increase revenues or become profitable may reduce the market price of our common stock. To the extent we engage in marketing and distribution activities outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations, trade restrictions and political, economic and social instability. To the extent we market and distribute the Plasma Converter System in foreign markets, we will be subject to various risks associated with conducting business abroad. A foreign government may require us to obtain export licenses or may impose trade barriers or tariffs that could limit our ability to build our international presence. Our operations in some markets also may be adversely affected by political, economic and social instability in foreign countries, including terrorism. To the extent that we attempt to expand our sales efforts in international markets, we may also face difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles and problems with collecting accounts receivable and increased risks of piracy and limits on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. We currently do not have any transactions denominated in foreign currencies. In the future, transactions denominated in foreign currencies may not be hedged and therefore will be subject to the risk of changes in exchange rates. If we are unable to adequately address the risks of doing business abroad and build an international presence, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. 17 We may acquire other companies, product lines or technology and our failure to integrate any of them may have an adverse effect on our business. As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could provide complementary and competitive new technologies, products or businesses. Future acquisitions or investments could involve the use of significant amounts of cash, which may cause us to incur a significant amount of debt. Alternatively, these types of transactions may require us to issue additional shares of our common stock. Such issuances could be dilutive to stockholders, and that dilution could be substantial. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and risks of entering markets in which we have limited or no prior experience. We currently have no commitments with respect to any acquisition or investment. If an acquisition or investment does occur and we cannot successfully integrate the business, product, technology or personnel that we acquire, it would have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to find appropriate strategic alliances, which would adversely affect market penetration of the Plasma Converter System. Future strategic alliances may include cooperative agreements for the sharing of information, cooperative marketing agreements, or other business relationships such as equity investments or joint ventures. We may be unable to find appropriate strategic alliances in markets in which we have little or no experience, which could prevent us from bringing our products to these markets in a timely manner, if at all. This may lower the demand for and reduce market acceptance of our Plasma Converter System, reducing our revenues and profitability. Though we have, in the past, entered into several strategic alliances in an effort to expand commercialization of the Plasma Converter System, none of these alliances, including our alliance with Future Fuels, Inc., are currently active nor have we ever made any sales of our Plasma Converter System through any such alliances. Contracts with federal and state governments subject us to possible contract terminations and audits. We have participated from time to time, and may in the future participate, in selective research and sales opportunities involving federal and state governments. Such contracts with federal and state governments can be subject to various risks, including the risk of termination at the convenience of the government, without penalty; however, typically if the contracts are cancelled for "convenience", the government must pay the costs of the contract up until the date of cancellation and other reasonable costs related to its termination. Additionally, revenues from governmental contracts are subject to time-consuming audit procedures under various federal statutes. There may be claims made against us for personal injury and business losses which may subject us to litigation and related costs. We anticipate that the Plasma Converter System will be utilized in a variety of industrial and other settings and will be used to handle materials resulting from the generation of hazardous waste. The equipment will, therefore, be subject to risks of breakdowns and malfunctions, and it is possible that claims for personal injury and business losses arising out of these breakdowns and malfunctions will be made against us. If we obtain product liability insurance in the future, our insurance may be insufficient to provide coverage against all claims or for claims made for amounts substantially in excess of applicable policy limits. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Product liability claims could result in losses and could divert our management's time and resources. The manufacture and sale of our products create a risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and reduced sales, cause us to incur significant liabilities and divert our management's time, attention and resources. Currently, we do not have product liability insurance; however, there is no assurance that such insurance, if obtained in the future, would be adequate to cover all potential claims. The successful assertion of any such large claim against us could materially harm our liquidity and operating results. 18 Our failure to properly control the use of hazardous materials could result in substantial financial liabilities to us. We use, generate and discharge toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals and wastes in our research, development and manufacturing activities. Therefore, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local government regulations related to the storage, use and disposal of such materials. Failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in an imposition of fines or other liabilities on us, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. We are not aware of any environmental investigation, proceeding or action by federal or state agencies involving any of our facilities. However, under federal and state statutes and regulations, a government agency may seek recovery and response costs from both operators and owners of property where releases of hazardous substances were committed by previous occupants of the property or have occurred or are ongoing. If we fail to control the use of, or to restrict adequately the discharge of, hazardous substances, we could be subject to substantial financial liabilities. Our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer a material adverse effect if costs resulting from these liabilities materialize. If we own and/or operate the Plasma Converter System directly, as part of a joint venture or otherwise, the amount of our potential liability may be greater. We cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety laws, and cannot guarantee that they will not be material. We could become liable if our operations were to cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. Under current law, we could even be held liable for damage caused by conditions if found to have existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Also, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and under applicable law we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. Any liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In the ordinary course of our business, we may in the future become involved in a variety of legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. These include proceedings in which: o agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and o local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. The adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. Failure to comply with government regulations will severely limit our sales opportunities and future revenues. We and our customers may be required to comply with a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations in the areas of safety, health and environmental controls, including without limitation, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, which may require our prospective working partners or our customers to obtain permits or approvals to utilize the Plasma Converter System and related equipment on job sites. Since we intend to market the Plasma Converter System internationally, we will be required to comply with laws and regulations and, when applicable, obtain permits in those other countries. We cannot be certain that required permits and approvals will be obtained or that new environmental regulations will not be enacted or that if they are, we and our customers can meet stricter standards of operation or obtain additional operating permits or approvals. Furthermore, particularly in the environmental remediation market, we may be required to conduct performance and operating studies to assure government agencies that the Plasma Converter System and its by-products are not environmental risks. There is no assurance that these studies will not be more costly or time-consuming than anticipated or will produce acceptable conclusions. Failure to obtain operating permits, or otherwise to comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulatory requirements, could affect our ability to market and sell our Plasma Converter System and could substantially reduce the market price of our common stock. 19 Our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property or if our technologies are found to infringe the intellectual property of a third party. Our success and the competitiveness of our products are heavily dependent upon our proprietary technology and our ability to protect our current and future technology and manufacturing processes. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Such means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate because such laws provide only limited protection. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to duplicate aspects of our technologies and manufacturing processes or the current or future products or technologies of our business and manufacturing processes or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. This could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and your investment. Additionally, our competitors may independently develop similar or superior technology. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary rights is difficult, and some international laws do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as United States laws. Litigation periodically may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation is costly and may not be successful. Our failure to protect our proprietary technology or manufacturing processes could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and your investment. Most of our technologies are not covered by U.S. and foreign patents. There is no assurance that any patent applications filed by us in the future will result in the issuance of any patents. Furthermore, there is no assurance as to the breadth and degree of protection any issued patents might afford our intellectual property. Disputes may arise between us and others as to the scope and validity of these or other patents. Any defense of the patents could prove costly and time consuming and there can be no assurance that we will be in a position, or will deem it advisable, to carry on such a defense. Other private and public concerns may have filed applications for, or may have been issued, patents and are expected to obtain additional patents and other proprietary rights to technology potentially useful or necessary to us. The scope and validity of such patents, if any, the extent to which we may wish or need to acquire the rights to such patents, and the cost and availability of such rights are presently unknown. We may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties, including third party rights in patents that have not yet been issued. If we do infringe, the holder of the patent may seek to cause us to cease using the technology subject to the patent, or require us to enter into a license or other similar agreement and pay for our use of the intellectual property. In either case, such event may have a material negative impact on our performance. Also, since we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, there is no assurance that others may not acquire or independently develop the same or similar technology. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents are issued, and the publication of discoveries in the scientific literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we will be the first creator of future inventions for which we seek patents or the first to file patent applications for any of our inventions. Patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures which differ from those of the United States. We cannot be certain that: o patents will be issued from future applications; o any future patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us; o foreign intellectual property laws will protect our intellectual property; or o others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or design around any patents which may be issued to us. Generally, we enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure of intellectual property agreements with our employees, consultants and many of our vendors, and generally control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Notwithstanding these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar information independently. 20 Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult. The laws of other countries may afford little or no effective protection of our technology. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology, which may cause us to lose customers and revenue opportunities. In addition, pursuing persons who might misappropriate our intellectual property could be costly and divert the attention of management from the operation of our business. We are not aware and do not believe that any of our technologies or products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. Nevertheless, third parties may claim infringement with respect to our current or future technologies or products or products manufactured by others and incorporating our technologies. Responding to any such claims, whether or not they are found to have merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause development delays, require us to enter into royalty or license agreements, or require us to cease using the technology that is the intellectual property of a third party. Royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, infringement claims could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our failure to keep pace with our competitors and technological changes may result in the loss of customers and revenue opportunities. Other manufacturers of systems used to process and dispose of materials and wastes in both the private and public sectors include several large domestic and international companies and numerous small companies, many of whom have substantially greater financial and other resources and more manufacturing, marketing and sales experience than we do. As other technologies evolve, the Plasma Converter System may be rendered obsolete. To the extent that our competitors are able to offer more cost-effective alternatives to the processing and disposal of materials and wastes, our ability to compete and sell the Plasma Converter System could be materially and adversely affected. Competition from other industry participants and rapid technological change could impede our ability to achieve profitable operations. Additionally, our current and potential competitors, some of whom have greater resources and experience than we do, may develop products and technologies that may cause a decline in demand for, and the prices of, our Plasma Converter System. Other companies have developed, or may develop, products that compete with our Plasma Converter System. We also compete indirectly with traditional waste management companies, who employ traditional methods for the processing and disposal of waste, including landfill dumping companies and companies that operate incinerators. Furthermore, our competitors may combine with each other, and other companies may enter our markets by acquiring or entering into strategic relationships with our competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have competitive advantages over us, including substantially greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources, including brand name recognition and long-standing relationships with customers. These matters may place us at competitive disadvantage in our markets and may impair our ability to expand into new markets, which could adversely affect our business. If we fail to grow rapidly or obtain additional capital we may not be able to compete with larger, more well-established companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in our markets. We face competition in all aspects of our operations. In North America, the industry consists of large national waste management companies, and local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. We compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. Our competitors may have significant advantages over us, as their operations may have been accepted by consumers and we may not be able to successfully compete with them. In addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts. If this happens, we may be required to offer lower pricing to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative impact to our revenues. Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, overall growth in the waste management market, changes in customer order patterns, availability of components from our suppliers, the gain or loss of a significant customer, and market acceptance of our products. These factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. 21 We are dependent on key personnel and our business would be disrupted if we are unable to retain and expand our management team. Due to the nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of, and on the ability to attract and retain, qualified engineering, technical, manufacturing, sales, marketing and senior management personnel. The loss of any key employees or principal members of management could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Further, if we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as needed, we may not be able to adequately manage and implement plans for our expansion and growth. Joseph F. Longo, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, has an employment agreement with us. However, any officer or employee may terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. Our employment agreement with Mr. Longo and our employment arrangements with other executive officers and significant employees impose customary confidentiality and non-compete obligations, and our employment arrangements with executive officers, other than Mr. Longo, provide for the assignment to us of all rights to any technology developed by such person during the time of his or her employment. We are currently in the process of evaluating a succession plan for Mr. Longo, who is 76. However, there can be no assurance that a succession plan will be established or that any succession plan, if established, will be sufficient to replace Mr. Longo when and if his services to us are no longer available. If Mr. Longo is involuntarily terminated without cause, his employment agreement provides for additional termination benefits. The term of the employment agreement with Mr. Longo is three years, effective as of January 1, 2004, and automatically renews for successive one year periods, unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal at least 90 days prior to the anniversary date. Effective August 1, 2007, the Board of Directors approved an increase in Mr. Longo's annual salary to $210,000. Upon termination of employment, Mr. Longo is entitled to six months of base salary and benefits continuation as severance. After the severance period, if Mr. Longo was involuntarily terminated without cause, he is entitled to additional termination benefits, including an annual payment of $97,500 for the remainder of his life, plus lifetime reimbursement of gap medical insurance premiums to cover expenses not covered by Medicare or Medicaid, to the extent commercially available. If Mr. Longo is survived by his spouse, she is entitled to receive half of the annual payment amount $48,750 for the remainder of her life, plus continuation of the gap medical insurance benefit. These entitlements are unfunded and Mr. Longo's rights to these benefits are as an unsecured general creditor of the Company. Our internal controls over financial reporting contain certain material weaknesses which could affect the ability of investors to rely on our financial statements. As of October 31, 2008, the Company evaluated the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures to determine whether they are effective in ensuring that it discloses the required information in a timely manner and in accordance with the Exchange Act and the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, supervised and participated in the evaluation. The principal executive officer and principal financial officer conducted their review as defined by Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e). Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting. We believe that a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, cannot provide absolute assurance that the objectives of the control system are met, and no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide a reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) as set forth in Internal Control - - Integrated Framework. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control -- Integrated Framework, and due to certain material weaknesses existing in our internal controls as of October 31, 2008 (described below), management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at the reasonable assurance level as of October 31, 2008. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in Internal Control over Financial Reporting ("ICFR"), such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Material weaknesses would permit information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits to not be recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods. As of October 31, 2008, the following material weaknesses existed: 22 o Ineffective Entity-Level Controls: The Company did not maintain effective entity-level controls as defined by the framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-- Integrated Framework. Specifically, the Company did not effectively segregate certain accounting duties due to the small size of its accounting staff, and maintain a sufficient number of adequately trained personnel necessary to anticipate and identify risks critical to financial reporting. o Inadequate Expertise in the application of certain U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles: The Company lacks adequately trained accounting personnel with appropriate United States generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) expertise for complex transactions. o Inadequate Reviews: There was inadequate reviews and approvals by the Company's personnel of certain reconciliations and other processes in day-to-day operations. Assuming our volume of business increases and sufficient capital is secured (neither of which can be assured), we intend to increase staffing to mitigate the current lack of segregation of duties within the general, administrative and financial functions. However, if other material weaknesses are identified and not promptly corrected in the future, our ability to report our quarterly and annual financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could result in physical damage to or the temporary closure of our corporate headquarters, product showroom and/or manufacturing facility. It may also result in the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market and/or the temporary or long term disruption in the supply of materials (or a substantial increase in the cost of those materials) from suppliers. One or more natural disasters or acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Furthermore, insurance costs associated with our business may rise significantly in the event of a large scale natural disaster or act of terrorism. Terrorist attacks and other attacks or acts of war may adversely affect the markets on which our common stock trades, which could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. On September 11, 2001, the United States was the target of terrorist attacks of unprecedented scope. In March 2003, the United States and allied nations commenced a war in Iraq. These attacks and the war in Iraq caused global instability in the financial markets. There could be further acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere that could have a similar impact. Armed hostilities or further acts of terrorism could cause further instability in financial markets and could directly impact our financial condition, our results of operations and the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Securities Our common stock has been delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. In July 2003, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly known as the Nasdaq SmallCap Market) and began trading on the NASD Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Since our shares are not listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market or any other national securities exchange, the trading of our shares is more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in the price of our common stock. It may also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. Further, we may also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. 23 Our common stock currently trades on the NASD Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. Securities in the NASD Over-the-Counter Market are generally more difficult to trade than those on the major stock exchanges. As a consequence, you may find it difficult to dispose of our common stock. In addition, accurate price quotations are also more difficult to obtain. The trading market for our common stock is subject to special regulations governing the sale of penny stock. A "penny stock" is defined by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The market price of our common stock has been less than $5.00 for several years. If you buy or sell a penny stock, these regulations require that you receive, prior to the transaction, a disclosure explaining the penny stock market and associated risks. Furthermore, trading in our common stock would be subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, also referred to in this prospectus as the Exchange Act, which relates to non-NASDAQ and non-exchange listed securities. Under this rule, broker-dealers who recommend our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Securities are exempt from this rule if their market price is at least $5.00 per share. Penny stock regulations will tend to reduce market liquidity of our common stock, because they limit the broker-dealers' ability to trade, and a purchaser's ability to sell the stock in the secondary market. The low price of our common stock will have a negative effect on the amount and percentage of transaction costs paid by individual shareholders. The low price of our common stock may also limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares of our common stock. There are several reasons for these effects. First, the internal policies of many institutional investors prohibit the purchase of low-priced stocks. Second, many brokerage houses do not permit low-priced stocks to be used as collateral for margin accounts or to be purchased on margin. Third, some brokerage house policies and practices tend to discourage individual brokers from dealing in low-priced stocks. Finally, broker's commissions on low-priced stocks usually represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks. As a result, our shareholders will pay transaction costs that are a higher percentage of their total share value than if our share price were substantially higher. Our stock price fluctuates and accordingly, you could lose all or part of the value of your shares of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has historically been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: o sales of our common stock by shareholders because our business profile does not fit their investment objectives; o actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; o developments relating to our Plasma Converter System and related proprietary rights; o announcements relating to our performance; o government regulations and changes thereto; o announcements of our competitors or their success in the waste management business; o the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; o developments and publicity regarding our industry; and o general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual performance, and could enhance the effect of any fluctuations that do relate to our operating results. 24 Future sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock may have an adverse effect on our stock price. There are currently a large number of shares of common stock that are eligible for sale and additional shares which is eligible for sale in connection with the effectiveness of our recent registration statements. The market price of our common stock could drop as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our common stock. Shares issuable upon the conversion of warrants or the exercise of outstanding options may substantially increase the number of shares available for sale in the public market and may depress the price of our common stock. We have registered a total of 10,619,844 shares of our common stock for resale in two registration statements on Form S-1 for resale by the selling shareholders listed therein, including FB US Investments, Cornell Capital Partners and Northshore Asset Management (where Arthur J. Steinberg, Esq. is the appointed receiver). A sales of these shares by one or more selling shareholders could result in a decrease in the price of our common stock. Shares issuable upon the conversion of warrants or the exercise of outstanding options may substantially increase the number of shares available for sale in the public market and depress the price of our common stock. As of October 31, 2008, we had outstanding warrants exercisable for an aggregate of 7,187,966 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $4.08 per share. In addition, as of October 31, 2008, options to purchase an aggregate of 1,776,000 shares of our common stock were outstanding at a weighted average exercise price of $4.69 per share. In addition, 1,135,000 shares of our common stock were available on October 31, 2008 for future option grants under our stock option plans. To the extent any of these warrants or options is exercised and any additional options are granted and exercised, there will be further dilution to investors. Until the options and warrants expire, these holders will have an opportunity to profit from any increase in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risks of ownership. Holders of options and warrants may convert or exercise these securities at a time when we could obtain additional capital on terms more favorable than those provided by the options or warrants. The exercise of the options and warrants will dilute the voting interest of the owners of presently outstanding shares by adding a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock. 25 We have never paid a dividend and have no plans to pay dividends. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on our shares of common stock and we have no plans to pay dividends in the near future. There is an increased potential for short sales of our common stock due to the sales of shares issued upon exercise of the warrants or options, which could materially affect the market price of the stock. Downward pressure on the market price of our common stock that likely will result from sales of our common stock issued in connection with an exercise of warrants or options could encourage short sales of our common stock by market participants. Generally, short selling means selling a security, contract or commodity not owned by the seller. The seller is committed to eventually purchase the financial instrument previously sold. Short sales are used to capitalize on an expected decline in the security's price. As the holders exercise their warrants or options, we issue shares to the exercising holders, which such holders may then sell into the market. Such sales could have a tendency to depress the price of the stock, which could increase the potential for short sales. 26 