Item 1A. Risk Factors Competition We operate in the highly competitive warehouse grocery stores industry. If we fail to successfully respond to competitive pressures in this industry, or to effectively implement our strategies to respond to these pressures, our operating results may be negatively affected. Many of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than us. Heightened competition among our suppliers, increased shopping alternatives and trends toward vertical integration could create additional competitive pressures. These factors could result in price reductions, reduced sales and margins, loss of market share or greater operating costs, any of which could materially and negatively impact our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Susceptibility to changes in business and economic conditions We operate in an industry characterized by high sales volume and low profit margin which is sensitive to national and regional business and economic conditions. We cannot fully foresee the changes in business and economic conditions which may result from domestic reasons or foreign unrest. Our sales growth depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving and emerging trends in consumer and demographic trends. The inability to adjust to changing customer spending patterns and demands could adversely affect our customer loyalty, the demand for our products and services and our market share. Our profitability is dependent on sales growth and control over merchandise, distribution and occupancy costs and operating and administrative expenses. Our operating results are also subject to seasonal fluctuations and the impact of weather conditions. Adverse weather conditions of unusually cold temperatures or above-average rainfall tends to adversely impact sales in affected markets. Interruption of the supply chain and/or ability to obtain products from suppliers or distributors The products we sell are procured from a wide variety of domestic and foreign suppliers and are distributed to our stores through owned and third-party operated distribution centers as well as direct store delivery. Interruption in our ability to source the products and the efficiency of distributing such products to our stores could materially and negatively impact our results of operations. Changes in legislation or regulation Changes in legislation and regulations related to the sale and distribution of food products, sale of alcoholic beverages, labor laws, environmental laws, health and safety laws, land use, accounting standards and taxation laws may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Operational inefficiencies Our efforts to maintain and improve our operational efficiencies are largely dependent on the expertise and experience of our senior management, various key employees and our underlying management information systems. The failure to attract and retain qualified employees in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe our information systems are a key element of enhancing our competitive position and achieving operational efficiency. We continually evaluate and upgrade our management information systems. Although we do not anticipate any disruption in our operations as a result of system upgrades, integrations or other activity, there can be no assurance that such disruption will not occur or that the desired benefits from system upgrades will be realized. We depend on our distribution system, including third-party distribution, to distribute goods, products and supplies to our store locations. A disruption in our distribution system could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Inability to execute our stores expansion plan An element of our growth strategy is to continue expansion through new store openings and relocations and remodels of existing stores. Our success in executing this expansion plan is dependent on our ability to locate and obtain favorable store sites, enter into acceptable lease or purchase agreements for these store sites, open new or relocated stores in a timely manner and adapt distribution, management information and other operating systems sufficiently to support store expansion in an efficient and profitable manner. Executing this expansion plan will further require that we hire, train and retain the skilled management and other associate resources necessary to meet staffing needs of new store operations in a timely and cost-effective manner. Unforeseen claims and litigation matters We currently face and in the future may face various claims and litigation which could adversely impact our operating results and if proven, the impact may be serious. These claims could arise from 1) our employees, including wage disputes, discrimination, working condition and work-related injuries; 2) our customers, including problems with the quality, safety or integrity of the food products we sell; 3) governments for non-compliance with legislation and regulations; and 4) our suppliers for non-compliance with any purchase agreement. Any of these events could result in significant costs, loss of customers and/or could harm our ability to market and sell our food and related products. Impact of natural disasters The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, including earthquakes (particularly in California where over 75 percent of our sales were generated in 2006) could result in the disruption in the supply of our products and distribution of products to our stores, damage to and the temporary closure of one or more stores and interruption in our labor staffing. These, and other potential outcomes of a natural disaster, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Debt and capital resources Our bank credit facility expires on November 18, 2009 and our lease facility expires on May 29, 2007. Our bank credit facility and lease facility contain financial covenants and other restrictions that may limit our operating flexibility. If we are unable to comply with these covenants and restrictions, we may be required to seek alternative means of financing such obligations. Our lease facility expires on May 29, 2007 which will require us to finance the settlement of this obligation. Should the Merger consummate prior to May 29, 2007, the lease facility will be refinanced in conjunction with the Merger financing. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to service our debt and lease obligations, or if future borrowings or equity financing are not available to us for the payment or refinancing of our debt, our operating results may be adversely impacted. Events or circumstances impacting or resulting from the merger agreement and/or the stock purchase agreement The consummation of the Merger Agreement is conditioned upon receiving approval of our stockholders, expiration or termination of all waiting periods required under the HSR Act and other closing conditions. The outcome of any legal proceedings that have been or may be 13 Table of Contents instituted against us and others following the announcement of the Merger Agreement and/or Stock Purchase Agreement could result in significant costs and/or impact the closing of the transactions. As a result of the announcement of these transactions, we may be faced with potential difficulties relating to employee retention, the loss of customers and/or suppliers, disruption of our current plans and operations, and increased costs associated with the Merger which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if the Merger is not consummated, adverse market reaction could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 