RISK FACTORS Telecom is subject to increasingly extensive regulation and faces significant regulatory uncertainty which may impose limits on Telecom’s flexibility to manage its business and force it to offer services to competitors as well as reduce the prices it charges for its products and services. This may negatively affect its business and profitability by limiting the returns that can be generated on Telecom’s assets Telecom operates in an increasingly regulated environment. There is telecommunications-specific regulatory legislation and generic competition legislation in both New Zealand and Australia (see “Item 4 – Market Overview—New Zealand Regulation / Australia Regulation” below). Amendments to the New Zealand Telecommunications Act 2001 (the “Telecommunications Act”), currently in the form of the Telecommunications Amendment Bill 2006 (the “Telecommunications Bill”), are pending following the Government’s 2006 ‘stock take’ of the New Zealand telecommunications environment. While not yet in force, the scope and nature of the proposed regulatory legislative change signal the New Zealand Government’s intention to intensify competition through regulatory intervention. Proposed changes in the Telecommunications Bill are likely to provide Telecom’s competitors with enhanced access to Telecom’s fixed network, which could have a significant and adverse effect on Telecom’s market share, competitive position and future profitability Telecom will be required to offer unbundled access to its local loop in the form of full access on a cost basis. Unbundling of the local loop (“LLU”), in the form of full access will allow competitors to offer access services to customers without having to build local loops of their own. LLU is expected to increase competition in urban, major provincial and related suburban areas. The Telecommunications Bill provides for the proposed initial access price for LLU to be benchmarked against prices for similar services in comparable countries that use a forward-looking cost-based pricing methodology. This determination process will give broad discretion to the regulator. Uncertainty also exists around the benchmark position the regulator will adopt when determining the cost-based access price. Should the regulator select a low benchmark price this would result in lower access prices which could erode Telecom’s market share, decrease Telecom’s margins and decrease its revenues and cash flows. The Telecommunications Bill if passed into legislation in its current form would also require Telecom to offer its wholesale customers ‘naked’ digital subscriber lines (a DSL connection without an accompanying fixed line service). Availability of naked DSL is likely to increase substitution of fixed voice access services with mobile services and VoIP services. A further uncertainty is the precise retail-minus calculation the regulator elects to use. Accordingly, these risks could have a significant and adverse effect on revenues, operating results and profitability of Telecom’s business. Proposed changes to the Telecommunications Act may greatly increase the Commerce Commission’s information seeking powers, substantially change its role and increase its enforcement powers. Telecom expects these changes could result in increased regulatory scrutiny of its business and increased compliance costs • Increased information seeking powers The Telecommunications Bill seeks to grant the Commerce Commission significantly increased information seeking powers. Information which the Commerce Commission may request access to includes information relating to Telecom’s financial statements and records, contracts, plans and forecasts, network capacity, policies and methodologies. Access to such information about Telecom’s operations could result in further regulatory interventions in future including areas of Telecom’s business not previously subject to regulation which is likely to lead to increased compliance costs for Telecom. • Changed role of the Commerce Commission The Telecommunications Bill seeks to change the Commerce Commission’s role from one of a reactive enforcement body to a mandatory role monitoring competition and overall 16 Table of Contents performance of telecommunications markets and to make information about these issues publicly available. The Commerce Commission may also be granted the ability to initiate sector reviews. This is likely to have the effect of increasing both the scope and extent of further regulatory activity. • Increased enforcement powers The Telecommunications Bill proposes introduction of a punitive regime consisting of enforcement and penalty provisions for which Telecom may be fined up to $300,000 once for each breach of these provisions. In addition, Telecom may incur a fine of up to $1 million once for each breach of the accounting separation information provisions. There are also further penalties that may be imposed for continuing breach ($50,000 a day for breach of accounting separation provisions and $10,000 for any other case). Under this regime, Telecom’s compliance costs are likely to increase. The New Zealand Government may introduce further regulation beyond the scope of the amendments currently contained in the Telecommunications Bill. This may impose further limits on Telecom’s flexibility to manage its business, force it to offer additional services to competitors as well as reduce the prices it charges for its products and services. This may negatively affect its business and profitability by limiting the returns and margins that can be generated on Telecom’s assets Potential for further regulation exists in the following areas: • Separation of Telecom’s businesses The Government has sought submissions on separating Telecom’s wholesale and retail business although no such provisions have been included at present in the Telecommunications Bill. The Government has asked Parliament’s Select Committee to seek submissions on this issue and to make a recommendation on whether to separate Telecom’s network wholesale and retail operations and if so, what form that separation should take. The options considered include the option of structurally separating Telecom (this would require Telecom’s wholesale and retail businesses to have separate ownership). In view of the potential for structural separation, Telecom has proposed a form of operational separation. However, the form of separation the Government prescribes may be more onerous than the form Telecom has proposed and result in significantly increased costs and administrative overheads for Telecom. Alternatively, structural separation of Telecom’s network, wholesale and retail businesses into separate companies with separate ownership could be mandated. Neither the form of the separation model nor its timing is known. Therefore, the outcome of this issue is unknown. Either stronger operational separation to that proposed by Telecom or structural separation would result in significantly increased costs and reduction in the overall profitability of Telecom’s operations. • Mobile regulation The Government may determine that further regulation of the mobile market is required to increase the opportunities for competition. Future regulation may cover pricing, termination and roaming and may lower the threshold a new operator needs to achieve national roaming status and/or that required for existing operators to make their network infrastructure available. This may have the effect of attracting additional mobile providers to the New Zealand market. Telecom’s mobile profitability may decline as a result. • Access to spectrum The Government has signalled its intentions to consider a regulatory reallocation of spectrum rights and to introduce tighter controls for the administration of spectrum allocation and usage. In future, this may affect Telecom’s security of tenure of the spectrum ranges it needs to operate its current and future wireless business. This may have the effect of increasing Telecom’s wireless operating costs and reducing the profitability of that 17 Table of Contents line of business. Further, if Telecom does not secure continued access to the spectrum, this will pose a threat to the viability of Telecom’s overall business. • Migration to cost plus pricing regime Currently, retail-minus pricing applies to all resale services, UBS, unbundled private circuits and is proposed to be applied to naked DSL. Following legislative change, the Government is proposing a policy review of the retail-minus regime. There is some risk that this could result in migration to a cost-based pricing regime for all regulated services. Migration from a retail-minus wholesale pricing construct to a cost plus construct would exacerbate price competition in retail markets and would contribute to declines in Telecom’s profitability. • Loss of ability to offer geographic pricing Future regulation may remove Telecom’s ability to geographically differentiate its pricing in response to competitors’ offerings provided from their own network. This may reduce Telecom’s ability to compete causing a decline in its market share, revenues and profitability. • Telecommunications Service Obligation (“TSO”) review As part of the Government broadband stock take announcements in May 2006, the Government announced that it intends to review the TSO. It is unclear at this stage what changes the Government is seeking to the TSO. Although changes to the TSO must currently be agreed by negotiation, there remains a risk that the Government may choose to legislate to effect change. Telecom may be unable to successfully introduce its Next Generation Telecom (“NGT”) business model which could result in the benefits Telecom anticipates from the transformation to its new business model not being realised which would adversely affect Telecom’s expected future consolidated financial position and results of operations Telecom believes that in order to improve its financial results and offset the impact of margin declines in its traditional communications business it needs to fundamentally redesign its business model, including the way it organises itself, the products and services that it offers to its customers, the way that these products and services are delivered and the infrastructure used to provide products and services. Telecom is in the process of developing its NGT business model, which it plans to implement over the period 2006 to 2015. The NGT is Telecom’s principal means of reducing costs and addressing the decline in earnings expected for its legacy lines of business over the medium term (to 2015). If Telecom fails to implement its NGT, fails to integrate it completely, or if the development of future product offers fails to meet customer expectations, then the benefits Telecom anticipates from the transformation to its new business model may not be realised. This would adversely affect Telecom’s future consolidated financial position and financial results from its operations. Telecom faces a number of risks to the delivery of the expected cost savings and other benefits expected for NGT. These include: • Implementation of the NGT is a large and complex programme of work spanning the next nine years (the majority of Telecom customers are expected to be on NGT offers by December 2015). The complexity, uncertainty over the availability of resources and the scale of transformation involved may make assumptions about the cost required to effect the transformation incorrect. Should this be the case Telecom may need to spend more to complete its transformation than budgeted or may not realise the anticipated costs savings which would reduce its profitability. • There is a risk that regulation may require Telecom to divert resources from the NGT programme, for example, to achieve a more onerous form of operational separation than that proposed voluntarily by Telecom by separating out its legacy systems, or structural separation. This would lead to significant cost for Telecom and divert both capital and 18 Table of Contents human resource from building of the Next Generation Network (“NGN”) and the implementation of services over that network. • Execution of the NGN component of the NGT is required to mitigate end of life risk associated with Telecom’s ageing legacy service platforms. In the event of delay to the projected delivery schedule for the NGT, the performance and availability of Telecom’s legacy services may deteriorate reducing the reliability of services provided from Telecom’s legacy networks, increasing Telecom’s costs and encouraging customer churn to alternative suppliers. • In the event of delay to the projected delivery schedule for NGT, Telecom may need to maintain two networks, the old PSTN and the new NGN. In this event Telecom may incur significant additional operating costs and may also expose itself to the risk of customer churn. • Long lead times for building of the network platform may require technology choice decisions to be made and platform implementation to commence in advance of the development of clear and final business requirements. This could place at risk Telecom’s ability to achieve the required competitive capability and impair or prevent realisation of the benefits anticipated for the introduction of its NGT. • NGN technology configuration is expected to be simpler than the legacy infrastructure it replaces and will therefore have a different risk profile to Telecom’s legacy network. This may present new risks of a ‘single point of failure’ nature. Interruption to the continuity of services resulting from single point of failure risk materialising may affect larger numbers of Telecom’s customers than at present and could result in loss of calling service or other Telecom operations such as provisioning or billing. • Telecom’s outsourced centralised operations’ partners (for example, Alcatel, NEC, EDS & Lucent), including associated third party suppliers, may be unable to meet the resource requirements necessary to manage both NGT technology and legacy network platforms moving forward. This may reduce the reliability of Telecom’s legacy network and/or delay the implementation of the NGN component of its NGT. • The NGT requires significant change at an organisational and customer level. If Telecom’s management, processes or employees are not able to adapt to these changes or if Telecom’s customers do not accept its simplified and reduced product offerings, Telecom’s business and financial results could be materially and negatively affected. Telecom faces vigorous competition in its markets and new entrants into its markets may intensify this competition, which could cause Telecom to continue to lose market share, reduce prices and decrease its profitability Telecom’s competitors include Vodafone Group Inc. and its subsidiary, Vodafone New Zealand Limited (“Vodafone”), Telstra Corporation Limited (“Telstra”) and its subsidiary, TelstraClear Limited and, SingTel Optus Pty Limited, a subsidiary of SingTel Corporation. Proposed regulatory amendments are expected to intensify competition in all of Telecom’s markets by enabling existing Telecom competitors to compete more vigorously on price and on a service differentiation basis. The changed regulatory environment may also attract the entry of new competitors further increasing competition in Telecom’s domestic markets. Potential for increased competition exists in the following areas: • New Zealand Fixed Line The changes the Government is currently proposing under the Telecommunications Bill will have the effect of facilitating increased levels of competition in Telecom’s consumer and business fixed market segments. The requirement to provide competitor’s with access to Telecom’s unbundled local loop and the naked DSL services will enable competitors to develop their own products and services in competition with Telecom, potentially in advance of Telecom’s ability to offer equivalent services. This may cause Telecom to lose market share, reduce prices and decrease its profitability. 19 Table of Contents • New Zealand Mobile Telecom’s customer share of the mobile market is currently 45%. Competition in the mobile market is likely to intensify due to a combination of factors such as: • regulatory changes enabling additional operators to enter the market; • the announced intention of TelstraClear to invest $50 million in a wireless network based in a major provincial centre in New Zealand; • declining global market share for CDMA and resulting reduced handset availability and roaming options; • the likely launch by Vodafone and TelstraClear of local calling on a mobile platform; • the continuing trend towards fixed to mobile substitution (where Telecom’s fixed customers migrate all or part of their business to a competitor’s mobile service); • introduction of fixed price (or capped-rate) data plans. Combined, these factors may cause both reduced market share and profitability. • New Zealand Broadband The pace and scope of change in competition in Telecom’s broadband market could accelerate as regulatory changes grant competitors access to unconstrained UBS and naked DSL services at lower prices. While growing the overall size of the market, this may have the effect of decreasing Telecom’s share of the broadband market, reducing prices and having a negative effect on Telecom’s profitability. Vodafone, recently announced its intention to introduce a 3G mobile broadband service. It is expected the service will be available to customers by 1 October 2006. Residential and CBD coverage will be available throughout Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch, while coverage in the rest of the major towns in New Zealand will be available in the next few months. Vodafone may be able to churn existing Telecom fixed line broadband customers to its new service and compete with Telecom for acquisition of growth in the emerging broadband market. This may have the effect of decreasing Telecom’s share of the broadband market, reducing prices and having a negative effect on Telecom’s profitability. This new service, combined with Vodafone’s competition in the local access and calling markets, may allow Telecom’s customers to completely sever their relationship with Telecom, which would put at risk all of Telecom’s revenue from every customer acquired by Vodafone. Should Telecom be required to replace the technical platform used to provide its mobile services, it may result in CDMA asset write-downs and require significant additional capital expenditure which could have a negative effect on Telecom’s profitability The longer term sustainability of Telecom’s investment in its mobile CDMA network may be jeopardised by recent developments such as Telstra’s decision to turn off its CDMA network (currently announced as occurring in January 2008), Nokia’s announcement that they will reduce their research and development and manufacturing of CDMA devices; and Telecom’s continued dependency on its relationship with Sprint Nextel Corporation (“Sprint”) to deliver competitive handsets and data cards. If WorldMode services (CDMA and GSM) are not available as expected in early 2007, Telstra’s decision to turn off its CDMA network would remove Telecom’s New Zealand customers’ access to roaming capability in Australia and require new mobile roaming options to be provided, which are not currently available. In the event Telecom’s CDMA network may no longer be viable in the future as its mobile platform, Telecom may require significant additional capital to build new infrastructure or otherwise become less competitive in the mobile market than at present, which in turn could have a negative effect on Telecom’s profitability. Rapid technological changes and convergence may impair the return or benefits Telecom expects from its capital investments, which in turn could adversely affect Telecom’s business, leading to accelerated write-downs of Telecom assets Telecom’s business is capital intensive and significant investment in technology and other assets is required before new services can be released to the market. In the 2006 and 2005 financial years 20 Table of Contents Telecom invested NZ$751 million and NZ$703 million, respectively, in capital expenditure principally on telecommunications and network equipment. Telecom expects to incur substantial capital expenditure to continue implementation of its NGN to replace its legacy PSTN service platforms, develop operational support systems to complement its NGN, further develop 3G mobile technology and to continue to grow broadband and mobile market share. Consumer demand for, or acceptance of, new services utilising the NGN may be less than anticipated. As a result, increased revenue targets may not be achieved and, longer term, Telecom may incur asset impairment write-downs. In addition, the technology choice and/or market size assumptions behind these investments may not prove to be valid, or other technologies with lower operating costs or more compelling service propositions may become available to competitors. Telecom could also make technology decisions which carry a risk that resulting services may not be competitive in the market or may substitute for one another. The structure of the telecommunications industry is changing as a result of convergence of telecommunications, information services and media markets and technologies, which may affect Telecom’s assumptions on the profitability of its markets. Additionally, some recent alternative technologies such as VoIP and WiMax are becoming commercialised. Telecom may be unable to achieve a sustainable competitive advantage in these high growth areas. These factors could result in Telecom having to reduce the prices of its products and services in order to remain competitive. Price reductions could lead to unsatisfactory returns on Telecom’s assets and accelerated write-downs of their value, together with significant expenditures in addition to those already planned in order to remain competitive. These factors may also lead to Telecom being required to invest in new technologies earlier than originally planned. Telecom is dependent upon its competitors’ networks in Australia In Australia, AAPT Limited makes extensive use of Telstra’s network access services, including the PSTN, interconnection, local carriage services, unconditioned local loop, and access services. A recent change in Telstra’s attitude favouring its retail operations in preference to its wholesale operations has resulted in the loss of discounts AAPT has previously been able to secure from Telstra for purchase of fixed line services for resale. If AAPT is unable to negotiate satisfactory wholesale discounts from Telstra, AAPT’s profitability and financial performance could continue to be adversely affected. AAPT may be unable to successfully introduce its new business model. This may prevent AAPT from achieving sustainable profitable operations which in turn may lead to further write-downs and have a negative effect on Telecom’s profitability Telecom’s Australian operations have a history of write-downs and losses. A write-down of NZ$1,301 million was included in the financial results for the year ended 30 June 2006 with respect to Telecom’s acquisition of AAPT completed in 2001. This followed a previous substantial write-down of AAPT in the year ended 30 June 2002. Following these write-downs, Telecom’s Australian operations had a carrying value of A$270 million at 30 June 2006 and Telecom expects to invest a further NZ$145 million in capital expenditure in its Australian operations. To improve its underlying performance AAPT is replacing its core business applications, such as billing and provisioning, to support a new business strategy focused on delivery of services to the consumer and small enterprise market and to position itself more effectively as a service provider. Should AAPT be unable to effectively manage the execution of this implementation and deliver the systems required, Telecom may not realise an expected return on the capital invested, AAPT’s operating performance may fail to improve and achievement of profitable operations may be delayed or prevented. This may lead to further write-downs of the value of AAPT, a failure to realise value from future investment and impairment of Telecom’s financial performance and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Telecom is exposed to decreasing revenues from the fixed line network as a result of customers using mobile and internet services in place of fixed line services which could adversely affect Telecom’s profitability Telecom’s fixed calling revenues declined from NZ$1,443 million for the year ended 30 June 2005 to NZ$1,393 million for the year ended 30 June 2006 due to a continuing trend of fixed to mobile and internet calling substitution. This trend is expected to continue. In addition, proposed regulatory change enabling Vodafone to offer a local calling service in New Zealand may lead to further declines in fixed line prices and revenues. If these trends accelerate, impairment write-downs may be incurred in respect of Telecom’s fixed network assets, and revenue derived from the fixed network may continue to decline, which in turn could adversely affect Telecom’s consolidated financial position and results of operations. Telecom is exposed to the risk of additional mobile network operators entering the New Zealand market with a 3G network New network operators may establish mobile services in New Zealand in competition to Telecom. As an example of this, TelstraClear has recently announced plans to invest $50 million in a wireless network based in a major provincial centre in New Zealand. Telstra’s network is expected to ‘go live’ by the middle of 2007 and is reported to have potential to provide over 100,000 household and business users with voice, mobile and broadband services. In future, the Government may introduce regulatory change lowering the coverage threshold required for new mobile entrants to secure a roaming agreement with an existing operator. Any regulated change of this nature would increase the likelihood of additional network operators establishing mobile service in competition with Telecom’s service. If this were to occur, Telecom may have to reduce its prices to remain competitive, reducing the profitability of this line of business, which may in turn adversely affect Telecom’s financial position and results of operations. Network or system interruptions may result in reduced user traffic, revenues and damage to Telecom’s reputation Telecom’s network infrastructure, particularly in New Zealand, is geographically widespread and is vulnerable to natural hazard disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods and tsunami. Increased failure rates and increasing difficulty supporting ageing legacy technologies, in combination with reduced reliability of new IP-based technologies, may also lead to increased loss of service events and/or the inability to meet the demand requirements for legacy products or services. These events and others, such as fire, terrorism or sabotage affecting key facilities, software faults, viruses, power supply loss or overloading from abnormal traffic loads, could result in service failures to large numbers of customers for extended periods and delays in the processing of bills and the receipt of related payments. Telecom has experienced network failures in the past. For example, in 2006, Telecom’s ISP Xtra experienced intermittent service outages spread over 3 days that interrupted email service to Xtra customers. The outages were caused by several factors, the key trigger being a failure of the uninterruptible power supply in the Data Centre hosting Xtra’s servers. This was exacerbated by server configuration errors preventing service start-up following power restoration, higher than normal volumes of demand affecting the mail servers at the time of the incident, and less than adequate business continuance capability. In Australia, the power supply to AAPT’s Riverside Exchange in Queensland was disconnected following localised flooding in the server room. The flooding was caused by a failure of a water pump triggered during routine maintenance. While the energy supply was isolated, service to the majority of AAPT’s customers was lost for a period of 2 – 3 hours. A small number of other AAPT corporate customers experienced a more severe service loss of up to 2 days duration. A small number of customers experienced intermittent problems beyond the 2 days. Some network and IT systems that deliver Telecom’s services, provisioning and billing systems may not be fully protected against such events. In addition, some of Telecom’s network and systems are not covered by formal disaster recovery and support arrangements. 22 Table of Contents The risk of network failures can never be entirely eliminated. Any such failure may harm Telecom’s reputation and could result in customer dissatisfaction, brand damage, compensation payments and contractual penalties, and reduced traffic and revenues. Telecom is dependent on a limited number of key third party suppliers for the delivery of important equipment, systems and software Telecom depends upon key suppliers, including its key technology partners Alcatel, Lucent and EDS for the supply of transmission, switching, routing and data collection systems, related software and other network equipment. The recent trend towards supplier consolidation (for example, Nokia and Siemens, and the pending Alcatel and Lucent merger) may increase suppliers’ market power and reduce Telecom’s ability to obtain the best price, and terms and conditions from its relationships with suppliers. If Telecom were unable to obtain adequate supplies of equipment in a timely manner, or if there were significant increases in the costs of such supplies, Telecom’s operations would be adversely affected. This may make it more costly for Telecom to manage its networks, systems and products and may have a negative effect on its financial position and operations. Telecom has a relationship with Sprint Nextel Corporation to source handsets and mobile applications on favourable commercial terms. Without this agreement there is a risk that Telecom’s financial performance could be adversely affected. Telecom’s performance in the New Zealand mobile market could be disadvantaged as a result of its key competitor’s (Vodafone’s) global scale, which allows it to purchase handsets and develop applications on more favourable commercial terms. To ameliorate this risk Telecom has commercial arrangements with Sprint. These arrangements have enabled Telecom to source handsets directly from original equipment manufacturers on favourable commercial terms. In addition, Telecom is able to obtain access to mobile applications developed by Sprint. Without these arrangements in place there is a risk that Telecom’s financial performance in the mobile area could be adversely affected. Telecom may pay too much for acquisitions and investments Value assumptions Telecom uses to make decisions about acquisitions and investments may prove to be incorrect. In particular, the carrying value of acquisitions and investments is based on assumptions about future value, which, if not realised, could lead to asset write-downs. In accordance with NZ IFRS, Telecom is continuously reviewing asset values for impairment against fair value. Further write-downs will occur where Telecom determines that the fair value of its acquisitions or investments is less than the carrying value of those acquisitions or investments. If a large change in the valuation of financial instruments occurs because of market movements and hedge accounting criteria are not met, this may have a material impact on earnings Under NZ IFRS, entities are required to carry all derivative financial instruments on balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in earnings unless the instruments meet the detailed requirements for hedge accounting. Telecom’s derivative financial instruments generally do meet these tests, however, there is a risk that they may cease to meet them in future or future instruments may not. This could have a material impact on earnings if large valuation changes were required to be recorded through the income statement. For US GAAP purposes, Telecom is also required to recognise its derivative financial instruments at fair value in the balance sheet, however, Telecom does not apply hedge accounting to its derivative financial instruments. As a result, changes in valuation of derivative financial instruments due to market movements will cause variability in Telecom’s net earnings in accordance with US GAAP reported in the reconciliation of net earnings under IFRS to net earnings under US GAAP, which is presented in the notes to the financial statements. 23 Table of Contents Telecom may be unable to obtain future financing at favourable rates to fund the development of its business Telecom had debt borrowings totalling NZ$3,498 million at 30 June 2006, the majority of which will need to be refinanced in the future. Conditions in the financial markets could adversely affect Telecom’s ability to finance its operations. In particular, if the general level of interest rates rises, Telecom may be unable to borrow at affordable rates. Telecom currently has long-term investment grade credit ratings for senior unsecured debt of A2 from Moody’s Investors Service and A from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group. To the extent that Telecom’s debt ratings or the ratings of the telecommunications sector generally, are downgraded, there is a risk that its cost of funding could increase, or that Telecom’s access to domestic and international debt capital markets could be restricted. Two of Telecom’s existing term debt issuances (issued under the Euro Medium Term Notes issue) have pricing triggers in the event of a rating downgrade. These triggers would apply if Telecom’s long-term senior unsecured ratings from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and Moody’s Investors Service fell below A- and A3 respectively. Imputation credits would not continue to be available if there was a substantial change in ownership of Telecom In general, dividends payable by Telecom are eligible for imputation credits in New Zealand based upon tax paid by Telecom, and such credits, if available, reduce the New Zealand taxes payable by recipients of such dividends. United States and other overseas holders can indirectly use these imputation credits under the Foreign Investor Tax Credit regime to reduce the financial impact of New Zealand withholding tax on cash dividends. As at 30 June 2006, Telecom had NZ$297 million of imputation credits. However, if there are changes in the ownership of Telecom’s shares, such that there is a greater than 34% change in continuity of ownership between the derivation of imputation credits and the attaching of those credits to dividends, such credits will be lost if they have not already been used in relation to dividends. If such credits were to be lost, this could result in greater taxes on dividends until such time as Telecom’s imputation credit account is restored through future taxes paid. The demand for Telecom’s services is influenced by economic conditions Telecom’s business is influenced by economic conditions within the countries in which it operates, and in particular by the state of the New Zealand and Australian economies and also in the economies of their major trading partners. A significant weakening in the New Zealand or Australian economy could have a material adverse effect on Telecom’s business and results of operations. Telecom’s unhedged borrowings may expose it to fluctuations in interest rates. Hedged borrowings expose Telecom to counterparty risk Telecom has a mix of both floating interest rate and fixed interest rate debt securities on issue at any point in time. Telecom has a policy of converting almost all its floating interest rate exposures to fixed interest rates through the use of derivative financial instruments. As of 30 June 2006, NZ$3,032 million or 86.7% of Telecom’s debt was subject to, or had been converted to, fixed interest rates. Telecom has a policy of holding debt in foreign currencies proportionate to the value of the assets held in that currency, and of hedging its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations in respect of other foreign currency borrowings. As a consequence of entering into these derivative financial instruments, Telecom is exposed to the risk that the counterparties to such arrangements may fail to perform their obligations. To the extent that floating interest rate obligations are not converted to fixed interest rate exposures, Telecom is subject to volatility in underlying short-term interest rates. 24 Table of Contents Depreciation or fluctuations of the New Zealand and Australian dollars relative to other currencies could adversely affect Telecom’s financial condition and results of operations Telecom’s revenues and expenses are denominated predominantly in New Zealand and Australian dollars. Telecom purchases equipment, materials and supplies denominated in a variety of foreign currencies depending on the source of the goods. Movements in the value of the New Zealand and Australian dollars against other currencies can adversely affect Telecom’s financial performance. Telecom has a policy of hedging a substantial portion of its budgeted 12 month foreign currency expenditure to reduce the volatility of each exchange rate movement on Telecom’s financial performance and results (approximately 65.0% of total forecast 12 month foreign currency exposures of approximately NZ$435 million, as at 30 June 2006, had been hedged). However, in respect of capital expenditures beyond a 12 month time horizon, and to the extent that foreign currency expenditure is unhedged, in line with Telecom’s policy, there is a risk that fluctuations in foreign currency rates may impact upon the cost to Telecom of such foreign sourced purchases. Accordingly, there are risks that currency movements could negatively impact Telecom’s financial condition and results of operations despite Telecom’s hedging strategies. Telecom cannot provide assurance that currency fluctuations or limitations on Telecom’s ability to convert or transfer currencies would not have a material adverse effect on Telecom’s financial condition and the results of Telecom’s operations. Loss of key Telecom, supplier and partner personnel could delay business plan initiatives or lengthen service interruptions Many of Telecom’s service operations are specialised and are dependent on highly skilled personnel, within Telecom and its key suppliers and partners, to meet current and planned performance levels. Successful operation of Telecom’s business is dependent on its ability to attract and retain sufficient key personnel whose skills are in demand throughout the industry. Telecom cannot be sure that such key personnel can be attracted and retained. Key operational sites may be subject to Maori land claims which may delay the implementation of network deployment, adversely affect Telecom’s ability to execute its strategies, and negatively impact financial performance Significant holdings of land in New Zealand are subject to Treaty of Waitangi claims by Maori. Telecom may have limited options for siting new facilities because of radio coverage issues or network design considerations, and claimants, both formal and informal, have the potential to delay the implementation of network development investment plans. The establishment of a link between adverse health effects and electromagnetic energy could expose Telecom to liability or negatively affect operations Allegations have been made, but not proven, that mobile telecommunications equipment may pose health risks through exposure to emissions of radio frequency electromagnetic energy from such devices. Telecom complies with the radio frequency exposure levels permitted by the New Zealand standard 2772.1:1999 (NZS). However, there is a risk that an actual or perceived health risk associated with mobile telecommunications equipment could lead to litigation, adversely affect Telecom through a reduction in the number of customers or the growth rate of mobile telecommunications services or reduced usage per customer, or hinder Telecom’s placement of new mobile telecommunications equipment. Telecom is involved in legal proceedings which, if decided against Telecom, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, position, results of operations and/or profitability As the principal telecommunications provider in New Zealand, Telecom is subject to numerous regulatory and competition law proceedings and is a focus of the New Zealand Commerce Commission and competitors (see “Item 4 – Market Overview - New Zealand Regulation”). Telecom 25 Table of Contents is currently involved in litigation regarding regulatory decisions and the interpretation of other New Zealand statutes and regulations. In addition, Telecom is involved in two proceedings for anti-competitive conduct brought by the Commerce Commission. If either of these proceedings are decided against Telecom, there is a prospect that it will have a significant effect on Telecom’s business, financial condition, position, results of operations or profitability. The legal proceedings to which Telecom is a party are described in more detail under “Item 8 – Legal Proceedings”. Identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses as a result of Telecom’s implementation of procedures designed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to the evaluation of Telecom’s internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on Telecom’s financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of Telecom’s securities Telecom devotes significant attention to establishing and maintaining effective internal controls. Telecom is in the process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving its internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, which will require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of Telecom’s internal control over financial reporting and a report by Telecom’s independent auditors addressing these assessments beginning 30 June 2007. Telecom has commenced testing Telecom’s internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements. As a consequence of systems and procedures currently being reviewed and implemented to comply with these requirements, Telecom may uncover circumstances that may be determined to be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, or that may otherwise result in disclosable conditions. Although Telecom intends to take prompt measures to remediate any such identified significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in Telecom’s internal controls structure, measures of this kind may involve significant effort and expense as well as significant managerial resources, and any disclosure of such significant deficiencies, material weakness or other disclosable conditions may result in a negative market reaction on Telecom’s share price and loss of confidence in Telecom’s internal controls which may in turn have an adverse impact on Telecom’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents 