Risk Factors Telecom faces vigorous competition in its markets, which could cause Telecom to continue to lose market share, reduce prices and decrease its profitability The New Zealand telecommunications market has become increasingly competitive since the New Zealand Government introduced open competition in 1989. Since then Telecom has experienced erosion in its market share. In 2001, the New Zealand Government introduced the Telecommunications Act granting competitors greater access to, and ability to resell, Telecom’s products and services. This has increased Telecom’s rate of loss of market share in New Zealand. While the overall market has, to date, experienced growth, Telecom has lost market share in some key markets, particularly in mobile where, since Vodafone New Zealand Limited’s entry into the mobile market in 1998, Telecom’s estimated share of that market has reduced from around 85% to around 45%. In response to increased competition, Telecom has lowered the prices of its products and services, particularly the prices for mobile, text messaging and data, as well as national long distance calls and international telephone services. Telecom expects the above trends to continue owing to vigorous competitive activity and increased regulation in New Zealand, facilitating enhanced competitor access to Telecom’s networks, products, and services at lower prices. Telecom’s competitors include Vodafone Group Inc. and Telstra Corporation Limited and, in Australia, SingTel Optus Pty Limited. Telecom expects these and other competitors to continue to engage in vigorous price competition in both countries. In Australia, this price competition has been particularly significant in the last 12 months. Telecom also expects that competitors will continue to market aggressively to those of Telecom’s customers who purchase large volumes of telecommunications services from Telecom. Telecom expects this competition to lead to a continued erosion of market share that could cause Telecom to further reduce prices and decrease its profitability. Telecom’s ability to compete successfully will depend on cost-efficient marketing and sales and service delivery, and on Telecom’s ability to anticipate and respond to the various competitive factors affecting the industry, including: • new services that may be introduced; • changes in consumer preferences; • demographic trends; • economic conditions; and • discount pricing and other strategies introduced by competitors. To the extent Telecom does not keep pace with technological advances or fails to respond in a timely manner to changes in competitive factors in the industry, Telecom could lose market share or experience a decline in revenue and net income. Telecom is subject to increasingly extensive industry-specific regulation, which is subject to revision, and which may impose limits on Telecom’s flexibility to manage its business, force it to offer services to competitors as well as reduce the prices it charges for its products and services and which may negatively affect its business and profitability by limiting the returns that can be generated on Telecom’s assets Telecom operates in an increasingly regulated environment. There is telecommunications-specific legislation in both New Zealand and Australia that regulates matters such as carrier and call termination prices and obligations; and industry-specific competition regulation that regulates access to services for competitors (see “Item 4 – Regulation” below). Item 3 14 Table of Contents Significant recent and proposed changes in the regulatory environment in New Zealand may have a material adverse effect on the returns expected from Telecom’s provision of telecommunications services by increasing the range and scope of the regulatory regime and ultimately competitor access to Telecom’s networks and services and lowering the price for that access. The Telecommunications Act 1997 provides for the regulator to determine which of Telecom’s services are regulated, the price of those services and the terms and conditions of access. Current regulatory investigations before the New Zealand regulators include: • an application for Telecom to provide TelstraClear Limited (a division of Telstra Corporation Limited) digital subscriber line bitstream service with a maximum of a 128kbps uplink speed; • reviews of prior decisions on TSLRIC cost-based interconnection and business and residential product resale; • an application for resale of additional business services; • an investigation under the Commerce Act 1986 in relation to broadband pricing; and • possible regulation of mobile termination rates for calls originating on fixed networks. The outcome of any of these investigations may negatively affect Telecom’s revenues, possibly significantly. The New Zealand Government has also announced an implementation review of the Telecommunications Act which may lead to an increase in the scope of regulation of Telecom’s New Zealand businesses and extend the regulator’s enforcement powers. The Government announced on 9 August 2003 an intention to pursue substantial amendments to the Telecommunications Act. See “Item 4 – Regulation”. This review may also lead to enhanced wholesale access to Telecom’s networks, products and services by competitors at lower prices and, consequently, greater erosion of Telecom’s market share, and increase compliance costs. The New Zealand Government may, at any time, revisit its decision not to unbundle the copper loop. If this decision is revisited and reversed, it may force Telecom to offer additional services to competitors as well as further reduce the prices it charges for products and services. In deciding to accept the Commerce Commission’s recommendations not to implement copper loop unbundling, but to regulate a form of bitstream access, the New Zealand Government took into account statements by Telecom that it was aiming for 250,000 residential broadband customers by 31 December 2005 and that one third of the market growth to achieve that target was expected to come from wholesale. The Government has indicated that it may revisit regulatory issues around unbundling if these targets are not met. This may force Telecom to offer additional services to competitors as well as further reduce the prices it charges for its products and services. Rapid technological changes and convergence may impair the return or benefits Telecom expects from its capital investments, which in turn could adversely affect Telecom’s business, leading to accelerated write-downs of Telecom assets Telecom’s business is capital intensive and significant investment in technology and other assets is required before new services can be released to the market. In the 2005 and 2004 financial years Telecom invested NZ$703 million and NZ$608 million, respectively, in capital expenditure principally on telecommunications and network equipment. Telecom expects to incur substantial capital expenditure to continue implementation of a NGN to replace the existing PSTN, further develop 3G mobile technology and to continue to grow broadband and mobile market share. The technology choice and/or market size assumptions behind these investments may not prove to be Item 3 15 Table of Contents valid, or other technologies with lower operating costs or more compelling service propositions may become available to competitors. Telecom could also make technology decisions which carry a risk that resulting services may not be competitive in the market or may substitute for one another. The structure of the telecommunications industry is changing as a result of convergence of telecommunications, information services and media markets and technologies, which may affect Telecom’s assumptions on the profitability of its markets. Additionally, some recent alternative technologies using VoIP are becoming commercialised. These factors could result in Telecom having to reduce the prices of its products and services in order to remain competitive. Price reductions could lead to unsatisfactory returns on Telecom’s assets and accelerated write downs of their value, together with significant expenditures in addition to those already planned in order to remain competitive. These factors may also lead to Telecom having to invest in new technologies earlier than originally planned. Over the last three-years Telecom has been enhancing its capability to address new business areas in the converging telecommunications, IT and content markets by implementing an investment plan to transition its network and services to the NGN architecture. Significant investment is expected to continue over several years. Consumer demand for, or acceptance of, new services utilising the NGN may be less than anticipated. As a result, increased revenue targets may not be achieved and, longer term, Telecom may incur asset impairment write-downs. Telecom may be unable to successfully introduce IP-based NGN capability and support systems or other new technologies or network infrastructure A large and complex programme of work, managed over several years, is required to introduce the NGN capability. Telecom may be unable to effectively manage the transition risks while moving to the new infrastructure, or the NGN technologies may not deliver a level of availability and performance that is acceptable to Telecom’s customers. In addition, the transition could result in a greater cost than is anticipated. In addition, in Australia, AAPT is implementing a programme of work to replace core business applications, such as billing and provisioning, to support a new business strategy focused on delivery of services to the mass market. There is a risk that Telecom may be unable to effectively manage the execution of this implementation and deliver the systems required. This may lead to further substantial write downs of the value of AAPT. Telecom is exposed to decreasing revenues from the fixed line network owing to mobile and other substitution which could adversely affect Telecom’s profitability Rapid changes in telecommunications and IT are continuing to redefine the markets in which Telecom operates, including substitution by customers using mobile and internet services in place of making calls over Telecom’s fixed network, and falling voice revenues eroding prices. Telecom’s calling revenues declined from NZ$1,550 million for the year ended 30 June 2003 to NZ$1,348 million for the year ended 30 June 2005 (a decline of 13.0% across the three-year period). If these trends accelerate, impairment write downs may be incurred in respect of Telecom’s fixed network assets, and revenue derived from the fixed network may continue to decline, which in turn could adversely affect Telecom’s consolidated financial position and results of operations. Telecom is exposed to the risk of a third mobile network operator entering the market in New Zealand with a 3G network In 2001 the New Zealand Government issued four spectrum licences for the use of 2100MHz spectrum capable of supporting the operation of a 3G mobile network. Telecom Item 3 16 Table of Contents is one of two mobile network operators currently operating 3G networks in New Zealand (Telecom and Vodafone). Telecom is currently in the process of expanding its 3G capable network’s coverage to all major towns and cities in New Zealand, targeted for completion by November or December 2005. Vodafone has recently launched 3G services in New Zealand. If another 3G spectrum licence-holder commenced a 3G network build in New Zealand, with coverage of more than 10%, current regulations would give the operator the power to obtain a mandatory roaming agreement with an existing operator. Such a roaming agreement would then allow them to market their service as having nationwide coverage, a key marketing requirement for any mobile operator. Should this occur, Telecom would be impacted negatively by an increased level of competition in the mobile industry in New Zealand with resulting potential loss of revenue, which in turn could adversely affect Telecom’s consolidated financial position and results of operations. Network or system interruptions may result in reduced user traffic, revenues and damage to Telecom’s reputation Telecom’s network infrastructure, particularly in New Zealand, is geographically widespread and is vulnerable to natural hazard disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods and tsunami. Increased failure rates and increasing difficulty supporting ageing legacy technologies, in combination with reduced reliability of new IP-based technologies, may also lead to increased loss of service events and/or the inability to meet the demand requirements for legacy products or services. These events and others, such as fire, terrorism or sabotage affecting key facilities, software faults, viruses, power supply loss or overloading from abnormal traffic loads, could result in service failures to large numbers of customers for extended periods and delays in the processing of bills and the receipt of related payments. Telecom has experienced network failures in the past. In June 2005 parts of Telecom’s national transport fibre infrastructure were taken down for several hours by two unrelated, simultaneous cable cuts on the eastern and western cable routes of the North Island. The failure on the eastern route was caused by vermin attack on the cable. While repairs were being implemented, traffic was diverted to the western route. During the period of diversion, the western cable was damaged by a post hole digger. These outages affected a large number of customers. Some network and IT systems that deliver Telecom’s services, provisioning and billing systems may not be fully protected against such events. In addition, some of Telecom’s network and systems are not covered by formal disaster recovery and support arrangements. The risk of network failures can never be entirely eliminated. Any such failure may harm Telecom’s reputation and could result in customer disatisfaction, compensation payments and contractual penalties, and reduced traffic and revenues. Telecom is dependent on a limited number of key third party suppliers for the delivery of important services Telecom depends upon key suppliers, including our key technology partners Alcatel, Lucent and EDS for the supply of transmission, switching, routing and data collection systems, related software and other network equipment. If Telecom were unable to obtain adequate supplies of equipment in a timely manner, or if there were significant increases in the costs of such supplies, Telecom’s operations would be adversely affected. This may make it more costly for Telecom to manage its networks, systems and products and may have a negative effect on its financial position and operations. Item 3 17 Table of Contents Telecom has a relationship with Sprint Spectrum LP to source handsets and mobile applications on favourable commercial terms. Without this agreement there is a risk that Telecom’s financial performance could be adversely affected. Telecom’s performance in the New Zealand mobile market could be disadvantaged as a result of its key competitor’s global scale, which allows it to purchase handsets and develop applications on more favourable commercial terms. To ameliorate this risk Telecom has commercial arrangements with Sprint Spectrum LP. These arrangements have enabled Telecom to source handsets directly from original equipment manufacturers on favourable commercial terms. In addition, Telecom is able to obtain access to mobile applications developed by Sprint. Without these arrangements in place there is a risk that Telecom’s financial performance in the mobile area could be adversely affected. Telecom is dependent upon its competitors’ networks in Australia In Australia, Telecom’s subsidiaries make extensive use of Telstra’s network access services, including the PSTN, interconnection, local carriage services, unconditioned local loop, and access services. There is a risk that Telecom’s subsidiaries may be unable to satisfactorily renegotiate interconnection and other arrangements which may adversely affect the financial performance of Telecom’s subsidiaries in Australia. This risk may be exacerbated by the Australian Governments’ intention to sell their remaining shareholding in Telstra, which could cause Telstra to review the commercial strategies and objectives of their Wholesale division. Telecom may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses it acquires, or maximise the results from strategic alliances and investments From time to time Telecom makes acquisitions and investments. In 2004 Telecom acquired IT service companies Gen-i Limited and Computerland for NZ$62.3million and NZ$26million respectively, to support its strategy to further extend its solutions capability. These, and other current and future acquisitions or strategic alliances, involve risks that Telecom may fail to successfully integrate the businesses acquired with existing operations, which may prevent Telecom from achieving the financial and strategic goals and value anticipated at the time of any acquisition or strategic alliance. Telecom may pay too much for acquisitions and investments Value assumptions Telecom uses to make decisions about acquisitions and investments may prove to be incorrect. In particular, the carrying value of acquisitions and investments is based on assumptions about future value which, if not realised, could lead to asset write downs. For example, a write down of NZ$850 million was included in the financial results for the year ended 30 June 2002 with respect to Telecom’s NZ$2.2 billion acquisition of AAPT completed in 2001. In accordance with NZ GAAP, Telecom is continuously reviewing asset values for impairment against fair value. Further write-downs will occur where Telecom determines that the fair value of its acquisitions or investments is less than the carrying value of those acquisitions or investments. In the 2006 financial year Telecom will adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The adoption of IFRS will result in goodwill no longer being amortised. This may result in significantly higher company values for acquisitions than currently recorded under NZ GAAP, increasing the possibility of impairment write downs. Item 3 18 Table of Contents The accounting for derivative financial instruments is changing as a result of adoption of IFRS in 2006. If a large change in the valuation of financial instruments occurs as a result of market movements and hedge accounting criteria not being met, as a result of the adoption of new accounting principles, this may have a material impact on earnings Under existing NZ GAAP the current rules around what constitutes an effective hedge have allowed Telecom to account for almost all its derivative financial instruments as hedges and maintain these off balance sheet, with no impact on earnings. Under IFRS, entities are required to carry all derivative financial instruments on balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in earnings unless the instruments meet the detailed requirements for hedge accounting. Telecom’s derivative financial instruments generally do meet these tests, however, there is a risk that they may cease to meet them in future or future instruments may not. This could have a material impact on earnings if large valuation changes were required to be recorded through the income statement. Telecom may be unable to obtain future financing at favourable rates to fund the development of its business Telecom had debt borrowings totalling NZ$3,836 million at 30 June 2005, the majority of which will need to be refinanced in the future. Conditions in the financial markets could adversely affect Telecom’s ability to finance its operations. In particular, if the general level of interest rates rises, Telecom may be unable to borrow at affordable rates. Telecom currently has long-term investment grade credit ratings for senior unsecured debt of A2 from Moody’s Investors Service and A from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group. To the extent that Telecom’s debt ratings or the ratings of the telecommunications sector generally, are downgraded, there is a risk that its cost of funding could increase, or that Telecom’s access to domestic and international debt capital markets could be restricted. Two of Telecom’s existing term debt issuances (issued under the Euro Medium Term Notes issue) have pricing triggers in the event of a rating downgrade. These triggers would apply if Telecom’s long-term senior unsecured ratings from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and Moody’s Investors Service fell below A- and A3 respectively. Imputation credits would not continue to be available if there was a substantial change in ownership of Telecom In general, dividends payable by Telecom are eligible for imputation credits in New Zealand based upon tax paid by Telecom, and such credits, if available, reduce the New Zealand taxes payable by recipients of such dividends. United States and other overseas holders can indirectly use these imputation credits under the Foreign Investor Tax Credit regime to reduce the financial impact of New Zealand withholding tax on cash dividends. As at 30 June 2005 Telecom had NZ$518 million of imputation credits. However, if there are changes in the ownership of Telecom’s shares, such that there is a greater than 34% change in continuity of ownership between the derivation of imputation credits and the attaching of those credits to dividends, such credits will be lost if they have not already been used in relation to dividends. If such credits were to be lost, this could result in greater taxes on dividends until such time as Telecom’s imputation credit account is restored through future taxes paid. The demand for Telecom’s services is influenced by economic conditions Telecom’s business is influenced by economic conditions within the countries in which it operates, and in particular by the state of the New Zealand and Australian economies and also in the economies of their major trading partners. A significant weakening in the New Zealand or Australian economy could have a material adverse effect on Telecom’s business and results of operations. Item 3 19 Table of Contents Telecom’s unhedged borrowings may expose it to fluctuations in interest rates. Hedged borrowings expose Telecom to counterparty risk Telecom has a mix of both floating interest rate and fixed interest rate debt securities on issue at any point in time. Telecom has a policy of converting almost all its floating interest rate exposures to fixed interest rates through the use of derivative financial instruments. As of 30 June 2005 NZ$3,218 million or 88.0% of Telecom’s debt was subject to, or had been converted to fixed interest rates. Telecom has a policy of holding debt in foreign currencies proportionate to the value of the assets held in that currency, and of hedging its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations in respect of other foreign currency borrowings. As a consequence of entering into these derivative financial instruments, Telecom is exposed to the risk that the counterparties to such arrangements may fail to perform their obligations. To the extent that floating interest rate obligations are not converted to fixed interest rate exposures, Telecom is subject to volatility in underlying short-term interest rates. Depreciation or fluctuations of the New Zealand and Australian dollars relative to other currencies could adversely affect Telecom’s financial condition and results of operations Telecom’s revenues and expenses are denominated predominantly in New Zealand and Australian dollars. Telecom purchases equipment, materials and supplies denominated in a variety of foreign currencies depending on the source of the goods. Movements in the value of the New Zealand and Australian dollars against other currencies can adversely affect Telecom’s financial performance. Telecom has a policy of hedging a substantial portion of its budgeted 12 month foreign currency expenditure to reduce the volatility of each exchange rate movement on Telecom’s financial performance and results (approximately 68.0% of total forecast 12 month foreign currency exposures of approximately NZ$325 million as at 30 June 2005, had been hedged). However, in respect of capital expenditures beyond a 12 month time horizon, and to the extent that foreign currency expenditure is unhedged, in line with Telecom’s policy, there is a risk that fluctuations in foreign currency rates may impact upon the cost to Telecom of such foreign sourced purchases. Accordingly, there are risks that currency movements could negatively impact Telecom’s financial condition and results of operations despite Telecom’s hedging strategies. Telecom cannot provide assurance that currency fluctuations or limitations on Telecom’s ability to convert or transfer currencies would not have a material adverse effect on Telecom’s financial condition and the results of Telecom’s operations. Loss of key Telecom, supplier and partner personnel could delay business plan initiatives or lengthen service interruptions Many of Telecom’s service operations are specialised and are dependent on highly skilled personnel, within Telecom and its key suppliers and partners, to meet current and planned performance levels. Successful operation of Telecom’s business is dependent on its ability to attract and retain key personnel whose skills are in demand throughout the industry. Telecom cannot be sure that such key personnel can be retained. Key operational sites may be subject to Maori land claims which may delay the implementation of network deployment, adversely affect Telecom’s ability to execute its strategies, and negatively impact financial performance Significant holdings of land in New Zealand are subject to Treaty of Waitangi claims by Maori. Telecom may have limited options for siting new facilities because of radio Item 3 20 Table of Contents coverage issues or network design considerations, and claimants, both formal and informal, have the potential to delay the implementation of network development investment plans. The establishment of a link between adverse health effects and electromagnetic energy could expose Telecom to liability or negatively affect operations Allegations have been made, but not proven, that mobile telecommunications equipment may pose health risks through exposure to emissions of radio frequency electromagnetic energy from such devices. Telecom complies with the radio frequency exposure levels permitted by the New Zealand standard 2772.1:1999 (NZS). However, there is a risk that an actual or perceived health risk associated with mobile telecommunications equipment could lead to litigation, adversely affect Telecom through a reduction in the number of customers or the growth rate of mobile telecommunications services or reduced usage per customer, or hinder Telecom’s placement of new mobile telecommunications equipment. Telecom is involved in legal proceedings which, if decided against Telecom, could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, position, results of operations or profitability As the principal telecommunications provider in New Zealand, Telecom is subject to numerous regulatory and competition law proceedings and is a focus for the New Zealand Commerce Commission and competitors (see “Item 4 –Regulation” below). Telecom is currently involved in litigation regarding regulatory decisions and the interpretation of other New Zealand statutes and regulations. In addition, Telecom is involved in two proceedings for anti-competitive conduct brought by the Commerce Commission. The maximum penalty for each of these proceedings is set out in “Item 4 – Regulation”. If either proceeding is decided against Telecom, there is a prospect that it will have a significant effect on Telecom’s business, financial condition, position, results of operations or profitability. The legal proceedings to which Telecom is a party are described in more detail under “Item 8 – Legal Proceedings”. Item 3 21 Table of Contents 