RISK FACTORS Telecom is subject to increasingly extensive regulation and faces significant regulatory uncertainty which may impose limits on Telecom’s flexibility to manage its business and may negatively affect its business and profitability. Telecom operates in an increasingly regulated environment. The Telecommunications Amendment Act (No 2) 2006, or the Telecommunications Act 2006, contains a comprehensive set of changes to telecommunications regulation in New Zealand, including: • the introduction of local loop unbundling (LLU) to the New Zealand marketplace; • extension of the range of regulated wholesale broadband services; and • the requirement for Telecom to adopt an operational separation model under the oversight of the Minister of Communications. The regulatory uncertainty created by these changes and the impact of these changes on Telecom, when finalised, has, and will continue to have, substantial adverse effects on Telecom’s operations and financial performance. The New Zealand Government may introduce further regulation beyond the scope of the amendments introduced in the Telecommunications Act 2006. These may impose further limits on Telecom’s flexibility to manage its business. The Telecommunications Act 2006 requires Telecom to offer unbundled access to its local loop to its wholesale customers, which could have a significant and adverse effect on Telecom’s New Zealand fixed line business, its competitive position and its overall operating results. Under the Telecommunications Act 2006, Telecom is required to offer unbundled access to its local loop in the form of full access on a regulated price basis enabling competitors to offer access services to customers without having to build local loops of their own. LLU is expected to increase competition in urban, major provincial and related suburban areas. The Commerce Commission has recently issued a draft determination setting out de-averaged charges for LLU in urban and non-urban areas, which are at the lower end of Telecom’s expectations. Should final pricing and non-price terms remain in line with the draft determination, this could have a significant and adverse effect on Telecom’s fixed line business, its competitive position and the profitability of its business, particularly beyond the 2008 financial year. The Telecommunications Act 2006 also requires Telecom to offer its wholesale customers unbundled bitstream access (UBA) services, including naked DSL services, which could accelerate the rate of decline of Telecom’s fixed line services and could have an adverse effect on Telecom’s revenue and profitability. Availability of UBA services is likely to increase substitution of fixed voice access services with mobile and VoIP services, potentially exacerbating pressure on the profitability of Telecom’s fixed line business. The Commerce Commission has recently issued a draft determination setting out de-averaged charges for naked UBA in urban and non-urban areas. As for LLU, should final pricing and non-price terms remain in line with the draft determination, this could have a significant and adverse effect on Telecom’s fixed line and broadband business, its competitive position and the profitability of its business, particularly beyond the 2008 financial year. Collectively, the introduction of LLU and UBA services are likely to accelerate the rate of broadband penetration, and cause lower wholesale and retail broadband prices in future. It may also accelerate the rate of decline in traditional telephony services, such as calling, which in turn could have a significant and adverse effect on Telecom’s revenues and profitability. 16 Table of Contents The requirement for Telecom to undergo operational separation could have an adverse effect on Telecom’s business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Consistent with the mandate contained in the Telecommunications Act 2006, the Ministry of Economic Development has proposed that Telecom be separated into three businesses, comprising a fixed access network unit and separate regulated wholesale and retail units, as well as proposing detailed governance and non-discrimination arrangements, and that regulated services be delivered on an equivalent basis. Telecom expects that separation will involve significant initial establishment costs and increased ongoing costs. Telecom’s current estimates are for incremental capital expenditure of approximately NZ$200 million over the four years ending 30 June 2011. Operational separation could also result in a decline in operational effectiveness due to increased administrative processes, duplication of roles and activities across the separated parts of the business, loss of ability to access the benefits of a vertically integrated organisation, and reduced speed-to-market. The implementation of operational separation will also require significant attention from Telecom’s management. Telecom may incur significant costs complying with the outcomes of the Minister’s review of its Telecommunications Service Obligations (TSO), which could have an adverse effect on Telecom’s profitability. The Minister has announced a review of the TSO and issued terms of reference. There is a risk that the review will require Telecom to provide additional services under the TSO, including that the TSO service may be made contestable and that Telecom is required to provide increased service commitments to consumers. Despite Telecom’s sale of its directory business, Yellow Pages Group, Telecom retains its TSO responsibilities to the Government in respect of the ongoing performance of the directories business, which the purchaser is contractually required to perform. In the event that the purchaser may fail to perform all or some of the TSO responsibilities in respect of the directories business, this may place Telecom in default under the TSO. Telecom may be unable to secure the spectrum it requires to successfully implement its business strategies and future offerings. Telecom holds management rights in multiple spectrum ranges which are critical to provision of its current, planned and possible future wireless services. These rights are managed by the Ministry of Economic Development on behalf of the Government. At present, Telecom holds sufficient spectrum across each spectrum range to execute its current strategies. There is a risk that Telecom may not be able to execute its current, planned or future wireless strategies resulting from insufficient spectrum in any given band or specific spectrum bands being unavailable to Telecom. This outcome may occur through changing Government policy preventing Telecom purchasing any or sufficient spectrum, unfavourable auction rules, new technologies requiring spectrum in a band that Telecom has not purchased or other industry players holding or acquiring management rights for spectrum which Telecom requires to execute its strategies. Telecom’s ability to innovate, compete and achieve planned outcomes, including implementing operational separation and delivering new regulated services to wholesale customers, may be restricted by resourcing constraints due to a tight labour market in New Zealand and globally. The tightness of the labour market in New Zealand and Australia may increase the difficulty Telecom faces in attracting people with the key skills (particularly technical solution architects, project managers, design engineers and ICT sales) required to meet its strategic and operational business objectives. Telecom expects that it will need to execute a number of key initiatives, either contemporaneously or within a short time frame of each other, in addition to its usual business initiatives. These key initiatives include introducing newly regulated wholesale products and services (including LLU and UBA), the Government’s operational separation requirements, replacing its legacy PSTN network infrastructure with an all Internet Protocol (IP) Next Generation Network (NGN), implementing new 17 Table of Contents business models for consumer and business retail groups (i.e. the Next Generation Telecom business model (NGT), which is described further below), building a new WCDMA mobile network and GSM-Edge mobile network, and increased investment in broadband capability. Telecom expects that Telecom, its partners and suppliers will need to employ a significant number of additional employees in order to implement these key initiatives over the same or similar timeframes. To the extent Telecom is unable to directly or indirectly acquire or retain the people-skills it requires to support these initiatives, it may become more difficult for Telecom to deliver its strategy, meet its existing and new regulatory obligations, maintain and enhance customer service levels, and meet its needs for customer retention and business growth. This in turn may cause financial performance to decline and impair Telecom’s future profitability. Telecom faces increasing competition in its markets. In addition, new entrants into its markets may intensify this competition, which could cause Telecom to lose market share, reduce prices and decrease its profitability. The Telecommunications Act 2006 is expected to intensify competition in all of Telecom’s New Zealand markets by enabling existing Telecom competitors to compete more vigorously on price and on a service differentiation basis. The changed regulatory environment may also attract the entry of new competitors, further increasing competition in Telecom’s New Zealand markets. In Telecom’s fixed line business, factors that are likely to contribute to Telecom losing market share, reducing prices and decreasing its fixed line businesses’ profitability include: • the requirement to provide competitors with access to Telecom’s unbundled local loop and naked DSL services provides competitors with the inputs that may be used to develop their own products and services in competition with Telecom, potentially in advance of Telecom’s ability to offer equivalent services and at lower costs than those available to Telecom Retail for equivalent products in respect of LLU and for comparable products in respect of naked DSL; and • recent regulatory changes will also enable its competitor, Vodafone New Zealand Limited (Vodafone), to offer a local calling service in New Zealand, which may lead to further declines in fixed line prices and revenues for Telecom. Factors that may cause both reduced mobile market share and result in a decline in the ongoing profitability of Telecom’s mobile business include: • the continuing trend towards fixed to mobile substitution where Telecom’s fixed customers migrate all or part of their business to a competitor’s mobile service; • the loss of Telecom’s mobile customers that require international roaming services due to declining global market share for CDMA, with the greatest risk being customers that require roaming in Australia in the period between January 2008, when Telstra Corporation Limited decommissions its CDMA network, and December 2008, when Telecom expects to commission its WCDMA network and GSM-Edge network which will have full international roaming capability; • new competition entering into the New Zealand mobile market, including Mobile Virtual Network Operators, which use the networks of other operators at volume discounts, and may cause prices for mobile telecommunications services to decline; and • the loss of mobile customers using Telecom’s CDMA network due to reduced handset and device availability that is likely to arise as a result of the declining global market share for CDMA. In the New Zealand wired broadband market, competition is expected to accelerate now that draft regulatory changes propose to provide wholesale access seekers with access to an LLU service, and a higher specification UBA service at a price similar to that currently available for regulated unbundled bitstream services. Vodafone’s recent acquisition of the ISP Ihug enables it to sell fixed line PSTN access and internet products giving it a full suite of communications products for the first time. Vodafone may also focus on cross-selling broadband into its current mobile base to take market share off Telecom. In the wireless broadband market, Vodafone’s 3G mobile service competes with Telecom’s mobile broadband offerings and may have the effect of decreasing Telecom’s share of the mobile broadband market reducing prices and having a negative effect on Telecom’s profitability. 18 Table of Contents Telecom may not succeed in implementing its Next Generation Telecom (NGT) business models for its Consumer and Business lines of business and supporting Next Generation Network (NGN). Even if successfully implemented, these models may not achieve the expected benefits within the anticipated timeframes. To improve its financial results and offset the impact of margin declines in its traditional communications business, Telecom is implementing a transformation strategy that requires substantial investment through large scale replacement of its network, IT and other technical infrastructure. Telecom has set an aggressive timeframe for implementing its NGT business model, and its supporting IP-based NGN, over the period 2007 to 2012. Telecom faces a number of risks to the delivery of the expected cost savings and other benefits expected from its NGT and NGN. These include: • the IP technology the NGN is based on is a developing technology carrying risks associated with the ability to deliver stable platforms in predictable timeframes and to offer stable and fully developed service sets. These risks are exacerbated by the absence of fully developed international NGN standards. These uncertainties could give rise to risks associated with the delivery and viability of the NGT business model; • regulation that may require Telecom to divert both capital and human resource from building NGT and NGN and delay the implementation of next generation customer services; • if delivery of Telecom’s new NGN is delayed up to or beyond the point where the quality of services delivered from Telecom’s legacy network infrastructure begins to deteriorate, the costs of maintaining service levels on the legacy equipment could increase and reduction in service quality issues may encourage customer churn to competitor suppliers; • regulation could require Telecom to deliver power supply to NGN communication devices at customer premises, which may increase the cost and complexity of NGN services; • significant delay to introduce Telecom’s NGN and NGT platforms could also impede or prevent customer migration to NGN and NGT. This may result in Telecom facing increased costs associated with jointly operating legacy and new systems in parallel; and • if customers need to be migrated from Telecom’s legacy PSTN earlier than anticipated this may adversely impact either NGT planning or the ability to migrate customers to the new business model as planned. The reliability of Telecom’s legacy network may be reduced and/or the implementation of its NGN may be compromised if Telecom’s outsourced operations’ partners are unable to meet the resource requirements necessary to manage both NGN technology and legacy network platforms. In addition, Telecom’s NGT capability depends on smaller third party partners to provide connectivity, content and applications to a larger extent than has previously been the case which, due to the number of interfaces, could lead to process failure adversely affecting customer perceptions and impairing customer migration from legacy to NGT environments. Finally, if customer acceptance of Telecom’s NGT products and services is lower than anticipated, Telecom may be unable to achieve planned customer migration to its new platforms. Accordingly, there is a risk that Telecom may fail to implement either its NGT or NGN, experience serious delivery delays for these, fail to integrate its NGT completely, experience end-of-life issues for legacy assets earlier than anticipated or experience customer acceptance and planned migration from its legacy to new products and services at levels significantly less than planned. Should these outcomes eventuate, the benefits Telecom anticipates from the transformation to its new business models may not be realised. Failure to successfully implement its NGT and NGN models would adversely affect Telecom’s future consolidated financial position and financial results from its operations. 19 Table of Contents Network or system interruptions may result in reduced user traffic, revenues and damage to Telecom’s reputation. Telecom’s network infrastructure, particularly in New Zealand, is geographically widespread and is vulnerable to natural hazard disasters, such as earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, tsunami, climate change and unusual weather activity. For example, in 2006 due to a significant snow storm, service to approximately 10,000 customers in the South Island was interrupted, with some customers experiencing service interruptions for two weeks. Increased failure rates and increasing difficulty supporting ageing legacy technologies, in combination with potentially reduced reliability of new IP-based technologies, may prevent Telecom servicing customers and/or cause increased loss from service events. In relation to Telecom’s proposed NGN, there are risks inherent to all IT systems connected to the Internet, such as hacker and denial of service attacks. These vulnerabilities, if exploited, could temporarily interrupt Telecom’s network or supporting business system operations, leading to impaired technical performance, reduced quality of service and periods of service unavailability. These events and others, such as fire, terrorism, sabotage, outages arising from routine maintenance or repairs, software faults, viruses, power supply loss, cable cuts or overloading from abnormal traffic loads, may affect key facilities and ongoing supply. Any of these factors singly, or in combination with other events, could result in service failures to a large number of Telecom’s customers for extended periods, delays in the processing of bills and the receipt of related payments. New applications and third parties using 3G mobile data applications, (for machine to machine communication) can generate large and unpredictable mobile network traffic spikes. These spikes may cause the quality of mobile service to deteriorate, or for network outages to occur, affecting service to Telecom’s mobile customers. In addition, some of Telecom’s network and systems are not covered by formal disaster recovery and support arrangements. Any network failure may harm Telecom’s reputation and could result in customer dissatisfaction, brand damage, compensation payments and contractual penalties, and reduced traffic and revenues. Loss of key Telecom, supplier and partner personnel could delay business plan initiatives or lengthen service interruptions. Many of Telecom’s service operations are specialised and are dependent on highly skilled personnel within Telecom and its key suppliers and partners to meet current and planned performance levels. This is particularly the case for the operation of Telecom’s legacy network infrastructure, which requires skills that are no longer widely available. Successful operation of Telecom’s existing business and implementation of Telecom’s NGN and NGT business models is dependent on its ability to attract and retain sufficient key personnel whose skills are in demand throughout the industry. Telecom cannot be sure that such key personnel can be attracted and retained. Following the introduction of Telecom’s new WCDMA network and GSM-Edge network, which are expected to be commissioned in December 2008, the viability of Telecom’s mobile business, based on its existing CDMA platform, may decline resulting in impairment of the carrying value of the CDMA asset and its potential write-down. The longer term sustainability of Telecom’s investment in its mobile CDMA network may be jeopardised by developments, such as poor customer take up of Telecom’s CSL roaming agreement/Worldmode handset offer, a continuing decline in the range of CDMA handsets, data cards and applications available from suppliers, loss of commercial support from key partners, such as Sprint Nextel, and, lastly, higher than anticipated CDMA customer migration to Telecom’s new WCDMA and GSM-Edge networks or its competitors’ networks. These factors have potential to reduce CDMA revenues at a greater level than forecast leading to impairment of the carrying value of Telecom’s CDMA assets and accelerated write down of its carrying value. Rapid technological changes, the emergence of new competitors, disruptive technologies and regulation may impair the return or benefits Telecom expects from its capital investments, which in turn could adversely affect Telecom’s business, leading to accelerated write-downs of Telecom assets. 20 Table of Contents Telecom’s business is capital intensive and significant investment in technology and other assets is required before new services can be released to the market. In the 2007 and 2006 financial years, Telecom invested NZ$844 million and NZ$751 million respectively, in capital expenditure principally on telecommunications and network equipment. Telecom also expects to incur substantial capital expenditure to: • continue implementation of its NGN to replace its legacy PSTN service platforms; • develop operational support systems to complement its new NGT business models; • construct a new WCDMA network and GSM-Edge network; and • continue to grow broadband and mobile market share. The structure of the telecommunications industry is changing as a result of convergence of telecommunications, information services and media markets and technologies, which may affect Telecom’s assumptions on the profitability of its markets. These factors could result in Telecom having to reduce the prices of its products and services in order to remain competitive. Price reductions could lead to unsatisfactory returns on Telecom’s assets and accelerated write-downs of their value, together with significant expenditures in addition to those already planned in order to remain competitive. These factors may also lead to Telecom being required to invest in new technologies earlier than originally planned. Telecom’s Australian operations may fail to achieve expected returns on invested capital, improve operating performance or restore profitable operations leading to further write-downs. Further losses may be experienced if Telecom is unsuccessful in integrating PowerTel, or implementing its new business model, Hyperbaric, either of which could adversely affect Telecom’s financial performance and the results of operations. Telecom’s Australian operations have a history of write-downs and losses. Since acquiring AAPT in 2001, Telecom has written down AAPT’s carrying value by over A$2 billion. In addition, in May 2007, Telecom invested a further A$326 million to buy PowerTel Limited, another Australian telecommunications infrastructure provider, and is merging it with Telecom’s existing AAPT business. In the short term, there are significant operational and customer management risks around the migration of AAPT’s customers onto the newly acquired PowerTel networks. These include whether PowerTel’s network is capable of supporting AAPT’s customers at their contracted service levels, minimising service impacts during and after network migrations and ensuring ongoing customer retention. AAPT will utilise the PowerTel network assets where possible to provide services to customers and reduce its dependence on obtaining network inputs from wholesale providers. A risk exists that PowerTel’s network will not be sufficiently scalable or robust to support AAPT’s larger customer base. There are also risks around realignment of the organisation, for example, in product rationalisation. Should the two businesses be unable to successfully integrate their existing businesses or resolve longer-term organisational realignment issues, the business benefits anticipated and synergies from combining and streamlining business processes may not be achieved. AAPT’s risks around technology platforms may have increased due to the addition of the PowerTel network infrastructure to the organisation’s technology portfolio and that AAPT will now handle network management in-house. Increased complexity, together with initiatives to reduce costs, may impact network redundancy with potential for single points of failure. In 2007, AAPT introduced a new business model and significantly enhanced business and operating support systems for Consumer & Small Enterprise customers, referred to as the Hyperbaric project. Migration onto the new Hyperbaric operating platform may prove problematic and Hyperbaric’s emphasis on self and online service may meet with customer resistance causing lowered customer migration to the new business model than anticipated. 21 Table of Contents Large Trans-Tasman corporate customers are managed by Telecom’s Gen-i business. These customers provide significant scale to Telecom’s Australian operations with service delivery and network capability occurring in Australia primarily through AAPT and PowerTel. Failure to secure resources to satisfactorily deliver Gen-i Australia customer-service requirements may impact service levels, customer retention and future offerings acquired by these customers. Any of these risk factors by themselves, or in combination with others, may lead to further write-downs and have a negative effect on the profitability of Telecom’s Australian operations. Telecom is dependent on a limited number of key third party suppliers for the delivery of important equipment, systems and software. Telecom depends upon key suppliers, including its key technology partners Alcatel-Lucent and EDS, for the supply of transmission, switching, routing and data collection systems, related software and other network equipment. The recent trend towards supplier consolidation may increase suppliers’ market power and reduce Telecom’s ability to obtain the best price, and terms and conditions from its relationships with suppliers. If Telecom were unable to obtain adequate supplies of equipment in a timely manner, or if there were significant increases in the costs of such supplies, Telecom’s operations would be adversely affected. This may make it more costly for Telecom to manage its networks, systems and products and may have a negative effect on its financial position and operations. Telecom may pay too much for acquisitions and investments. Value assumptions Telecom uses to make decisions about acquisitions and investments may prove to be incorrect. In particular, the carrying value of acquisitions and investments is based on assumptions about future value, which, if not realised, could lead to asset write-downs, including PowerTel for which Telecom paid A$326 million in 2007. In accordance with NZ IFRS, Telecom is continuously reviewing asset values for impairment against fair value. Further write-downs will occur where Telecom determines that the fair value of its acquisitions or investments is less than the carrying value of those acquisitions or investments. If a large change in the valuation of financial instruments occurs because of market movements and hedge accounting criteria are not met, this may have a material impact on earnings. Under NZ IFRS, entities are required to carry all derivative financial instruments on balance sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in earnings unless the instruments meet the detailed requirements for hedge accounting. Telecom’s derivative financial instruments generally do meet these tests, however, there is a risk that they may cease to meet them in future or future instruments may not. This could have a material impact on reported earnings if large valuation changes were required to be recorded through the income statement. For US GAAP purposes, Telecom is also required to recognise its derivative financial instruments at fair value in the balance sheet, however, Telecom does not apply hedge accounting to its derivative financial instruments. As a result, changes in valuation of derivative financial instruments due to market movements will cause variability in Telecom’s net earnings in accordance with US GAAP reported in the reconciliation of net earnings under IFRS to net earnings under US GAAP, which is presented in the notes to the financial statements. Telecom may be unable to obtain future financing at favourable rates to fund the development of its business. Telecom had debt borrowings totalling NZ$3,353 million at 30 June 2007, the majority of which will need to be refinanced in the future. Conditions in the financial markets could adversely affect Telecom’s ability to finance its operations. In particular, if the general level of interest rates rise, Telecom may be unable to borrow at affordable rates. Telecom currently has long-term investment grade credit ratings for senior unsecured debt of A2 from Moody’s Investors Service and A from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group. To the extent that 22 Table of Contents Telecom’s debt ratings or the ratings of the telecommunications sector generally, are downgraded, there is a risk that its cost of funding could increase, or that Telecom’s access to domestic and international debt capital markets could be restricted. Two of Telecom’s existing term debt issuances (issued under the Euro Medium Term Notes issue) have pricing triggers in the event of a rating downgrade. These triggers would apply if Telecom’s long-term senior unsecured ratings from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and Moody’s Investors Service fell below A- and A3 respectively. Potential reversal of deferred tax credits for Telecom’s Australian operations may increase Telecom’s tax expense. AAPT is currently a tax resident in New Zealand and, therefore, is subject to the New Zealand tax regime. Deferred tax credits totalling NZ$99 million were recognised in 2007 in tax expense as a result of recognising the New Zealand tax effect of the write down of property, plant and equipment included in the impairment charges relating to Telecom’s Australian operations recorded in 2006. Were AAPT’s factual position to change, such that it was no longer a New Zealand tax resident, some of these deferred tax credits may reverse. As the quantum of any possible reversal depends upon the market value of AAPT’s property, plant and equipment at the time it ceased to be a New Zealand tax resident, it is not possible to quantify any possible reversal. Imputation credits would not continue to be available if there was a substantial change in ownership of Telecom. In general, dividends payable by Telecom are eligible for imputation credits in New Zealand based upon tax paid by Telecom, and such credits, if available, reduce the New Zealand taxes payable by recipients of such dividends. United States and other overseas holders can indirectly use these imputation credits under the Foreign Investor Tax Credit regime to reduce the financial impact of New Zealand withholding tax on cash dividends. As at 30 June 2007, Telecom had NZ$190 million of imputation credits. However, if there are changes in the ownership of Telecom’s shares, such that there is a greater than 34% change in continuity of ownership between the derivation of imputation credits and the attaching of those credits to dividends, such credits will be lost if they have not already been used in relation to dividends. If such credits were to be lost, this could result in greater taxes on dividends until such time as Telecom’s imputation credit account is restored through future taxes paid. The ability of United States or other overseas investors to claim domestic tax credits may be reduced if the Government enters into a bilateral tax treaty. In documents released in December 2006 and May 2007, the New Zealand Government announced that it may enter into bilateral tax treaty negotiations to reduce the rate of New Zealand withholding tax that is imposed on cash dividends in conjunction with removal of the Foreign Investor Tax Credit regime. This may have the impact of reducing or removing the ability of United States or other overseas holders from claiming credits in their domestic income tax returns in respect of the New Zealand withholding tax imposed on cash dividends. The demand for Telecom’s services is influenced by economic conditions. Telecom’s business is influenced by economic conditions within the countries in which it operates, and in particular by the state of the New Zealand and Australian economies and also the economies of their major trading partners. A significant weakening in the New Zealand or Australian economy could have a material adverse effect on Telecom’s business and results of operations. Telecom’s unhedged borrowings may expose it to fluctuations in interest rates. Hedged borrowings expose Telecom to counterparty risk. Telecom has a mix of both floating interest rate and fixed interest rate debt securities on issue at any point in time. Telecom has a policy of converting a high proportion of its floating interest rate exposures to fixed interest rates through the use of derivative financial instruments. As of 30 June 23 Table of Contents 2007, NZ$2,945 million or 87.8% of Telecom’s gross debt was subject to, or had been converted to, fixed interest rates. Telecom has a policy of holding debt in foreign currencies proportionate to the value of the assets held in that currency, and of hedging its exposure to exchange rate fluctuations in respect of other foreign currency borrowings. As a consequence of entering into these derivative financial instruments, Telecom is exposed to the risk that the counterparties to such arrangements may fail to perform their obligations. To the extent that floating interest rate obligations are not converted to fixed interest rate exposures, Telecom is subject to volatility in underlying short-term interest rates. As at 30 June 2007, Telecom had NZ$1,969 million of cash investments, primarily resulting from the sale of its Yellow Pages business. This cash is invested on a short-term basis at floating interest rates with a number of bank counterparties. As a consequence, until Telecom is able to return excess capital to its shareholders, or retire maturing debt, Telecom is exposed to both counterparty risk and interest rate risk on these invested funds. Depreciation or fluctuations of the New Zealand and Australian dollars relative to other currencies could adversely affect Telecom’s financial condition and results of operations. Telecom’s revenues and expenses are denominated predominantly in New Zealand and Australian dollars. Telecom purchases equipment, materials and supplies denominated in a variety of foreign currencies depending on the source of the goods. Movements in the value of the New Zealand and Australian dollars against other currencies can adversely affect Telecom’s financial performance. Telecom has a policy of hedging a substantial portion of its budgeted 12 month foreign currency expenditure to reduce the volatility of each exchange rate movement on Telecom’s financial performance and results (approximately 72% of total forecast 12 month foreign currency exposures of approximately NZ$397 million, as at 30 June 2007, had been hedged). However, in respect of capital expenditures beyond a 12 month time horizon, and to the extent that foreign currency expenditure is unhedged, in line with Telecom’s policy, there is a risk that fluctuations in foreign currency rates may impact upon the cost to Telecom of such foreign sourced purchases. Accordingly, there are risks that currency movements could negatively impact Telecom’s financial condition and results of operations despite Telecom’s hedging strategies. Telecom cannot provide assurance that currency fluctuations or limitations on Telecom’s ability to convert or transfer currencies would not have a material adverse effect on Telecom’s financial condition and the results of Telecom’s operations. The establishment of a link between adverse health effects and electromagnetic energy could expose Telecom to liability or negatively affect operations. Allegations have been made, but not proven, that mobile telecommunications equipment may pose health risks through exposure to emissions of radio frequency electromagnetic energy from such devices. Telecom complies with the radio frequency exposure levels permitted by the New Zealand standard 2772.1:1999 (NZS). However, there is a risk that an actual or perceived health risk associated with mobile telecommunications equipment could lead to litigation, adversely affect Telecom through a reduction in the number of customers or the growth rate of mobile telecommunications services or reduced usage per customer, or hinder Telecom’s placement of new mobile telecommunications equipment. Key operational sites may be subject to Maori land claims which may delay the implementation of network deployment, adversely affect Telecom’s ability to execute its strategies, and negatively impact financial performance. Significant holdings of land in New Zealand are subject to Treaty of Waitangi claims by Maori. Telecom may have limited options for siting new facilities because of radio coverage issues or network design considerations, and claimants, both formal and informal, have the potential to delay the implementation of network development investment plans. 24 Table of Contents Identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses as a result of Telecom’s implementation of procedures designed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act relating to the evaluation of Telecom’s internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on Telecom’s financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of Telecom’s securities. Telecom devotes significant attention to establishing and maintaining effective internal controls. Telecom has completed a process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving its internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This involves annual management assessments of the effectiveness of Telecom’s internal control over financial reporting and a report by Telecom’s independent auditors completed for the year ending 30 June 2007. Both Telecom and its independent auditors have tested Telecom’s internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements for the year ended 30 June 2007. No material weaknesses were reported, however, as this is an annual certification, the risk of uncovering a material weakness remains for future financial years. Shareholder rights differ between the United States and New Zealand, and it may not be possible for shareholders to enforce judgements of US courts against members of Telecom’s Board of Directors. Telecom is incorporated under the laws of New Zealand. The rights of holders of Telecom’s shares and, therefore, many of the rights of its ADR holders, are governed by Telecom’s Constitution and by New Zealand law. These rights differ in some respects from the rights of shareholders in typical US corporations. In addition, the members of Telecom’s Board of Directors are non-residents of the United States and Telecom’s assets and the assets of members of its Board of Directors are located in whole or in substantial part outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for shareholders to enforce against Telecom, its directors or executive officers judgements obtained in the United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages and judgements rendered in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in New Zealand. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of Telecom’s ADRs and the value of any distributions that Telecom makes. Because Telecom’s stock is traded in NZ dollars and the ADRs are traded in US dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the two currencies may affect the relative value of Telecom’s ADRs. In addition, should Telecom make any distribution on its common stock in NZ dollars, the Depositary will convert such distributions to US dollars. If exchange rates fluctuate before the Depositary converts the currencies, US shareholders may lose some of the value of the distribution. 25 Table of Contents 