ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business and an investment in our company are subject to a number of risks, including those described in the preceding sections as well as those highlighted below. Our success is dependent on market acceptance. Our success depends on market acceptance of the Vasotrac system, the OEM modules thereof, and/or the Primo hand-held monitor as well as new products we plan on introducing in the next twelve months. Such acceptance depends primarily on gaining customer (end-user) and institutional (hospitals, outpatient centers, ambulance companies, nursing homes and physician offices) acceptance of these products. We believe that testing of the Vasotrac system and related core technology has yielded favorable results compared to other non-invasive blood pressure monitors. However, improper placement of the pressure sensor or improper use of the system may cause the readings produced by the technology to be questionable. As a result, another key component of our marketing strategy has been to focus on training and education of clinicians in the correct use of the products. Also, given differences in individual bone physiology, body weight and physical condition, the Vasotrac system, the OEM modules thereof, and the Primo hand-held monitor may not provide adequate readings or be usable on all patients. For example, if a patient’s peripheral blood flow to his or her arms has been compromised, these products may not function as specified. Other contraindications for these products may result from patients on cardiopulmonary bypass and patients with any condition in which rendering a pulsating pressure signal from the radial artery is not possible. To date, we believe we have not detected significant patient complications caused by any of our products. However, as with any relatively new product, complications may occur as the technology is used on a greater number of patients with different 12 Table of Contents characteristics and under various conditions. The presence of any significant complications would necessitate additional research and evaluation to determine the impact of such complications. Finally, we must overcome the resistance of the medical community to the introduction of new techniques or technology. We believe that this resistance may be exacerbated due to the fact that the blood pressure cuff has been in use for more than 100 years, and virtually all medical professionals are trained using cuff technology. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the products will gain market acceptance. If these products do not gain market acceptance, our future would be jeopardized. We must maintain and develop strategic relationships with third parties to increase market penetration of our product lines. We distribute our products to domestic hospitals with our direct sales organization and in some cases with regional dealers or sales agents, and to targeted international markets primarily through distributors. Many aspects of our relationships with third parties, and the success with which third parties promote distribution of our products, are beyond our control. We have been successful in maintaining our existing strategic relationships and in identifying and entering into future development and distribution agreements with third parties; however, this has not yet resulted in additional market penetration. Our international sales expose us to unique risks. In fiscal year 2005, international sales of our stand-alone products accounted for approximately 4% of our revenue. All transactions performed in the international markets are based on the Company receiving all the money prior to any product materially being shipped. The exception to this is with established business partners. We rely on distributors to assist us with our international operations. In addition, we are exposed to risks from international sales, which include unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions and reduced protection for intellectual property rights. Moreover, fluctuations in the rates of exchange may increase the price in local currencies of our products in foreign markets and may price us out of special foreign markets. We may not have adequate intellectual property protection. Although we believe that we have effective patent protection, our patents and proprietary technology may not be able to prevent competition by others. In addition, in the future our products may be found to infringe upon the rights of others. Any claims resulting in intellectual property litigation, whether defensive or offensive, could drain our resources and, if decided against us, materially adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that any pending U.S. or any foreign patents will be granted or, if obtained, that they, or those already granted to us, will sufficiently protect our proprietary rights. Although patents have been granted to us, and even if the patents for which we apply are granted, they do not confer on us the right to manufacture and market products if such products infringe on patents held by others. While we have reviewed prior art in connection with our patent applications, we have not undertaken or conducted any comprehensive patent infringement searches or studies. If any third parties hold any such conflicting rights, we may be required in the future to stop making, using or selling our products or to obtain licenses from or pay royalties to others, which could entail significant expense and have a material, adverse effect upon us. Further, in such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain or maintain any licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. Throughout the development process for all of our products, we have been associated with various companies, institutions and individuals. Although we have no knowledge that any such companies, institutions or individuals have claimed, or have any basis for claiming, interests in our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that such claims will not be threatened, asserted or perfected. Such claims, even if we ultimately prevail on the merits, could have a material, adverse effect upon us. In addition to patent protection, we rely, to the extent possible, on trade secrets, confidentiality agreements, un-patented proprietary know-how, and our continuing development of new products. 13 Table of Contents We rely on a single technology platform. We believe that significant and expanding markets exist for the Vasotrac system, the Primo spot blood pressure monitor, the OEM modules, and for additional products incorporating our proprietary technology. Currently we utilize one technology platform in the Vasotrac system, the OEM modules, and the Primo. The technology platform is our sensor technology and the software algorithms. Reliance on a single technology platform creates substantial risks for us. If, for example, the products are not successfully marketed, if they fail to meet customer needs, or if they are not accepted in the marketplace, we would be materially and adversely affected, our primary business focus would require re-evaluation, and our ability to continue operations would be jeopardized. We have not undertaken any comprehensive patent infringement searches or studies. If the products or technology were found to infringe on the patent rights of others or if third parties successfully asserted rights to these products, we would be materially adversely affected. We also intend to develop additional products based on our core technology. The technology employed in the Vasotrac system may be useful in developing additional products for other markets. We must continue to evaluate the design of our products. While our initial product development and clinical testing program for the Vasotrac system, Primo, and OEM modules are complete, extensive use and evaluation of the design is necessary in order to assess whether the products, as currently configured, will broadly meet customer needs or be accepted as a viable alternative in the marketplace. We have performed wide-ranging customer focus groups and customer feedback sessions regarding our Primo platform than we have in the past. We will continue to test the products, as well as future products to enhance their market acceptance. If the configuration of the technology must be modified, there can be no assurance such modifications will be acceptable to customers or be technically feasible. Even if feasible, such modifications could result in significant delays and significant expenses. If such modifications require regulatory approval, additional significant delays could result. We could be materially and adversely affected by any of these developments. We have entered into three agreements to incorporate the Vasotrac system technology into an OEM module, and we are hopeful that we will enter into additional agreements of this type. Although sale of the Vasotrac system as an OEM module is intended to complement sales of the system as a stand-alone product, it is possible that configuration as an OEM module will be the principal or customer preferred way of purchasing and using this product. It is also likely that OEM modules will require regulatory approval, which may result in additional delays. Any regulatory application must be submitted by any of the third party companies that use the OEM module. We could be materially and adversely affected by any of these developments. Our products may require servicing and we may be subject to product liability claims. Our goal is to produce highly reliable products and future products that do not require excessive subsequent servicing. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in achieving such goal. There also can be no assurance that additional problems will not occur, that additional servicing requirements will not be necessary or that any additional problems or servicing requirements, individually or in the aggregate, will not be significant, difficult to correct, time-consuming or prohibitively expensive. Further, the need for any such additional servicing may not be readily apparent to clinicians using the products. We believe that actual or perceived excessive servicing requirements for products could materially and adversely affect market acceptance of the system and could raise product liability concerns. See “Risk Factors — We may be subject to product liability claims that exceed insurance coverage.” Although we plan to continue testing our products to determine the extent of their servicing requirements, there can be no assurance that we can precisely identify the exact scope of such servicing requirements. We have limited manufacturing experience and capability. We currently have little manufacturing experience or capability, other than a limited ability to produce relatively small quantities of the Vasotrac system, the Vasotrax hand-held monitor, and the beginning of the 14 Table of Contents Primo spot blood pressure monitor. We have developed, arranged for, or invested in any significant production tooling, but have not arranged for any significant third-party manufacturing capacity or agreements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to scale-up manufacturing of the products for commercial production at quantities required to meet cost targets and profitability goals. If our manufacturing costs are higher than anticipated or if a lower-priced competitive product becomes available, we may not be able to produce and sell the products. In addition, there can be no assurance that subcontractors, on whom we will rely for functions we will not perform internally, will produce sufficient products at required quality and cost levels. We will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to scale-up manufacturing successfully or effectuate manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms. We currently have limited or single sources of supply. We currently purchase from outside vendors, on a purchase order basis, quantities of virtually all components and subassemblies for the products. Should production rates increase, the supply of components and subassemblies will become more critical. Should a key vendor be unwilling or unable to supply any components or subassemblies required by us in a timely manner, we may be materially adversely affected. We face substantial competition. We currently know of two other continual non-invasive blood pressure monitoring devices on the market. However, one of those devices uses a cuff to calibrate the blood pressure readings and we therefore do not consider the device to be directly competitive. The other device uses a wrist sensor mechanism; however, this device has only been marketed to the operating room environment with patients who are sedated. We face substantial competition from numerous companies that manufacture and market noninvasive and invasive instruments for blood pressure measurement and monitoring. Several companies competing in the traditional cuff and catheter blood pressure monitoring market have significantly greater resources as well as established technologies and product reputations in the blood pressure monitoring field. Our ability to compete successfully in this market will depend on our ability to develop and market a technologically superior blood pressure monitoring or measurement system that provides cost-benefit, patient benefit, and improved staff effectiveness. All new products, such as Primo have been designed to meet these goals. We believe that the features of Primo and other new products will provide economic benefit, staff efficiency improvements, and improved patient comfort. We may be subject to price competition from other sensor manufacturers whose products are also compatible with our monitors. To mitigate this, we developed proprietary sensor technology that provides and promotes the exclusive use of our proprietary sensors with our equipment. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will preclude replacement sensor competition in the future. The current widespread acceptance of non-invasive cuff technology and of the arterial line, and the lack of widespread acceptance of non-invasive technologies like ours, is an important competitive disadvantage that we must overcome in order to gain general market acceptance. In addition, the current technology involving cuffs and arterial lines has established cooperative relationships with large medical equipment companies and buying groups that we must also overcome in order to successfully compete. If we are not successful at overcoming such competition, our primary business focus would likely require re-evaluation with our ability to continue operations being jeopardized. We have however entered into national group purchasing agreements with Novation, Amerinet, Mayo Foundation, Tenet Healthcare, Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth, and have become a Kaiser Permanente template company. These agreements offer a competitive edge by generating exposure to more than 3,000 hospitals throughout the United States. In addition, we have entered into supply agreements with other companies, who will incorporate our technology into their larger systems based products. Our technology may become obsolete. The medical device industry is subject to rapid technological innovation and, consequently, the life cycles of products tend to be relatively short. We are engaged in a field characterized by extensive research efforts. There can be no assurance that new developments or discoveries in the field will not render the products 15 Table of Contents and/or technology obsolete. The greater resources of many of the companies currently engaged in research of blood pressure management may permit such companies to create, or respond more rapidly than Medwave to, technological innovations or advances. Third-party payers may not approve payment for use of our products, and we may be affected by changes in health care laws. Our success in the United States may be related to the number of third party payers, such as Medicare, private insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, and other payers, that approve payment or reimbursement for the use of our products and the amount of any such payments or reimbursements. If, for example, hospitals are not able to recover the cost of these products through reimbursement, they may be reluctant to purchase these products, with the result that our sales may be adversely affected. The health care industry and associated regulatory environment are dynamic and rapidly changing, particularly with respect to proposals to reform Medicare and to control health care costs. This environment makes it impossible to predict the effects, including costs or impediments to development, that adoption of and changes in health care laws, rules and regulations may have on us and on our operations. Such developments could, however, materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products. We depend on management. Our success currently depends on the services of Timothy J. O’Malley, our President and Chief Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer. The loss of Mr. O’Malley may hurt our business if we are unable to identify other individuals to provide us with similar services. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. We may not be able to manage growth. If successful, we will experience a period of growth that could place a significant strain upon our managerial, financial and operational resources. Our infrastructure, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our operations and to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully market our products. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to expand our direct sales force and our internal sales, marketing and support staff. If we are unable to manage future expansion effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer, our management will be less effective, and our revenues and product development efforts may decrease. We may not continue to receive necessary FDA clearances or approvals. Our products and activities are subject to extensive, ongoing regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and other governmental authorities. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory clearances and approvals, or any failure to comply with regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent our ability to market our product line. We may not receive approvals by foreign regulators that are necessary for international sales. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. If we, or our international distributors, fail to obtain or maintain required pre-market approvals or fail to comply with foreign regulations, foreign regulatory authorities may require us to file revised governmental notifications, cease commercial sales of our products in the applicable countries or otherwise cure the problem. Such enforcement action by regulatory authorities may be costly. We may be subject to product liability claims that exceed insurance coverage. We have obtained product liability insurance, including excess umbrella coverage, in the aggregate amount of $7,000,000 covering our products. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance in amounts and with coverage that will adequately cover associated risks or that such 16 Table of Contents insurance will be available in the future at premiums that can be economically justified. Lack of such insurance could expose us to substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect upon us. We have a history of losses and may experience continued losses. We have experienced losses every year since our incorporation. These losses have resulted because expenditures in the course of researching, developing and enhancing our technology and products and establishing our sales and marketing organization have exceeded our revenues. We expect that our operating expenses will increase proportionately in relationship to an increase in sales and marketing activities, and expansion of our operations. It is possible that we will never achieve or sustain the revenue levels required for profitability. We may need additional capital, which may be unavailable. The commercialization of our product line and the development and commercialization of any additional products may require greater expenditures than expected in our current business plan. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: • our rate of sales growth—fast growth may actually increase our need for additional capital to hire additional staff, purchase additional component inventories, finance the increase in accounts receivable and supply additional support services; • our progress in marketing-related clinical evaluations and product development programs, all of which will require additional capital; • our receipt of, and the time required to obtain, regulatory clearances and approvals—the longer regulatory approval takes, the more working capital we will need to support our regulatory and development efforts in advance of sales; • the level of resources that we devote to the development, manufacture and marketing of our products—any decision we make to improve, expand or simply change our process, products or technology will require increased funds; • our facilities requirements—as we grow we may need additional manufacturing, warehousing and administration facilities and the costs of the facilities would be incurred long before any increased revenue from growth would occur; • market acceptance and demand for our products—although growth may increase our capital needs, the lack of growth and continued losses would also increase our need for capital; and • financing strategies—our attempt to accelerate the otherwise lengthy purchasing processes of hospitals by offering programs as an alternative to outright purchasing and by providing purchasers with extended payment terms, single-use sensor programs and financing options will require additional capital. We may be unable to predict accurately the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We may be required to raise additional funds through public or private financing, bank loans, collaborative relationships or other arrangements earlier than expected. It is possible that banks, venture capitalists and other investors may perceive our capital structure, our history of losses or the need to achieve widespread acceptance of our technology as too great a risk to bear. As a result, additional funding may not be available on attractive terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain additional capital when needed, we may be forced to agree to unattractive financing terms, to change our method of operation or to curtail our operations. 17 Table of Contents Common stock which is available for immediate resale may depress our market price. We have filed registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering the potential resale by some of our shareholders of up to 6,575,793 shares of common stock. The existence of a substantial number of shares of common stock subject to immediate resale could depress the market price for our common stock and impair our ability to raise needed capital. A low stock price or failure to maintain a minimum of $2.5 million of stockholders’ equity could result in our being de-listed from the Nasdaq Market and subject us to regulations that could reduce our ability to raise funds. If our stock price were to drop below $1.00 per share and remain below $1.00 per share for an extended period of time, or if we fail to maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million (and do not meet alternative tests of either having $35 million in market capitalization or $500,000 in annual net income), or if we fail to maintain other Nasdaq continued listing criteria, Nasdaq may de-list our common stock from the Nasdaq Market. In such an event, our shares could only be traded on over-the-counter bulletin board systems. This method of trading could significantly impair our ability to raise new capital. In the event that our common stock was de-listed from the Nasdaq Market due to low stock price, we may become subject to special rules, called penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock. The rules require, among other things, the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule required by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the market for penny stocks. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable both to the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities, and monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information. In the event that our common stock becomes characterized as a penny stock, our market liquidity could be severely affected. The regulations relating to penny stocks could limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and thus the ability of purchasers in this offering to sell their common stock favorably in the secondary market. Our common stock is subject to price volatility. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or pricing by our competitors; • changes in, or failure to meet, financial estimates of securities analysts; • the rate of adoption by physicians of Medwave’s technology in targeted markets; • the timing of patent and regulatory approvals; • the timing and extent of technological advancements; • results of clinical studies; • the sales of our common stock by affiliates or other shareholders with large holdings; and • general market conditions. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations of securities industry analysts or investors. Any such shortfall could result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of the stock of many medical device companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may directly and adversely influence the market price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 