ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including, without limitation, those set forth in the following risk factors, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. However, these risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that are not yet identified or that we think are immaterial may also materially harm our business. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline substantially. Our success is dependent on market acceptance of our products as a replacement for the traditional blood pressure cuff. Our success depends on medical institutions, such as hospitals, outpatient centers, ambulance companies, nursing homes and physician offices, and, to a lesser extent, individual customers accepting our products. Our products, including the FusionTM system, are designed to replace the traditional blood pressure monitoring cuff that medical professionals have used for more than 100 years. Virtually all medical professionals are trained using cuff technology. Our success depends on demonstrating that our products are easier to use and at least as accurate as the traditional cuff. If our products do not gain market acceptance, our future will be jeopardized. We face substantial competition. Several companies competing in the traditional cuff and catheter blood pressure monitoring markets have significantly greater resources as well as established technologies and product reputations in the blood pressure monitoring field. If we are unable to develop and market technologically superior blood pressure monitoring systems that provide benefits to patients and improved staff effectiveness at affordable prices, we will not be able to overcome our competitors’ greater resources and established technologies. In addition, these competitors have cooperative relationships with large medical equipment companies and buying groups that we must also overcome in order to successfully compete. We face substantial competition from other companies that manufacture and market noninvasive instruments for continuous blood pressure measurement and monitoring. These companies may already have, or could develop, superior products or employ more effective sales and distribution strategies to gain greater market share. Either of these possibilities would prevent us from expanding our customer base and could ultimately jeopardize our ability to continue operations. We may also be subject to price competition from other sensor manufacturers whose products are also compatible with our monitors. We rely on a single technology platform. Currently, we utilize our proprietary sensor technology and software algorithms in all of our products. Reliance on a single technology platform creates substantial risks for us. If our products are not accepted in the marketplace for any reason, we would be materially and adversely affected, our primary business focus would require re-evaluation, and our ability to continue operations would be jeopardized. 6 Table of Contents Our products may not perform adequately or be placed properly. Our products may not provide accurate blood pressure readings as result of a patient’s bone physiology, body weight and physical condition. For example, if a patient’s peripheral blood flow to their arms has been compromised, our products may not function as specified. Other contraindications for our products may result from patients on cardiopulmonary bypass or having any condition in which obtaining a pulsating pressure signal from the radial artery is not possible. Moreover, improper placement of the pressure sensor or improper use of our products by medical personnel may cause our products’ blood pressure readings to be inaccurate. If our products fail to perform, medical institutions may not purchase our products, which would harm our results of operations. We have recently learned that many users of our Primo hand-held monitors have encountered difficulty in the proper placement of the Primo’s sensor on the wrist which has resulted in inaccurate readings. As a result of these difficulties, approximately 75% of previously shipped Primo hand-held monitors have been or will shortly be returned to us. As a result, we will discontinue selling the Primo. These returns have, and the marketplace resistance created by our discontinuation of a recently launched product will likely continue to, harm our results of operations. We may be unable to design and build products that do not have substantial operational problems after sale or require unforeseen amounts additional servicing. If our products have repeated operational difficulties after sale, medical institutions may not purchase our products and/or we may incur substantial repair and replacement expenses to avoid losing an existing customer. Any additional servicing requirements, individually or in the aggregate, may be time-consuming or prohibitively expensive. Further, the need for any such additional servicing may not be readily apparent to clinicians using the products and could result in inaccurate readings and the negative impacts on our results of operations discussed above. Even if our products are perceived to generate inaccurate readings or require substantial service after purchase, medical institutions may not purchase our products, which would harm our results of operations. We must continue to evaluate the design of our products. We will continue to test our existing products, will likely test our future products on an ongoing basis, and may be required to modify any existing or future products as a result of these tests. If the configuration of the technology must be modified, there can be no assurance that these modifications will be acceptable to customers or be technically feasible. Even if feasible, these modifications could result in significant delays and significant expenses. If these modifications require regulatory approval, additional significant delays could result. We could be materially and adversely affected by any of these developments. Similarly, as our products are incorporated into OEM modules, both the initial OEM product and any subsequent changes to the OEM product will require regulatory approval. These approvals may result in additional delays, which could be exacerbated because any regulatory application for our OEM products must be submitted by our third party OEM partners. We could be materially and adversely affected by any of these developments. We may not have adequate intellectual property protection. We rely on patents, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements, and un-patented proprietary know-how for the continuing development of new products. Any action that we bring against a third party for infringing any of these rights will be costly and may distract our management’s attention. Our patents and other intellectual property protection may not be able to prevent competition by others. The patents that have been granted to us, and for which we have applied, do not confer on us the right to manufacture and market products that infringe patents held by others. If our products infringe any patent rights held by third parties, we may be required to stop making, using or selling our products or to obtain licenses from, or pay royalties to, others, any of which could entail significant expense and have a material adverse effect upon us. Further, in such event, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain or maintain any licenses on acceptable terms. 7 Table of Contents We, throughout the development process for our products, and many of our employees have previously been associated with various companies, institutions and individuals. Although we have no knowledge that any such companies, institutions or individuals have claimed, or have any basis for claiming, interests in our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that such claims will not be threatened. Even if claims brought against us are unsuccessful or without merit, we would have to defend ourselves. The defense of any actions may be time-consuming and costly and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Our technology may become obsolete. The medical device industry is subject to rapid technological innovation and, consequently, the life cycles of products tend to be relatively short. We are engaged in a field characterized by extensive research efforts. There can be no assurance that new developments or discoveries in the field will not render our products and/or technology obsolete. The greater resources of many of the companies currently engaged in research of blood pressure management may permit such companies to create, or respond more rapidly than us to, technological innovations or advances. We have a new management team. Our former President and Chief Executive Officer, Timothy J. O’Malley, resigned on September 21, 2006. After Mr. O’Malley’s resignation, our Board of Directors appointed one of the then current directors, Frank Katarow, as interim Chief Executive Officer. Subsequently, we hired Rocco Morelli to serve as our Senior Vice President of Sales & Marketing and Ramon Burton to serve as our Chief Financial Officer. Our success depends to a significant degree on the performance of our management team and other key employees. There is no guarantee that Messrs. Katarow, Burton or Morelli, or our other members of our management team will remain employed with us in the future. We recently decided to relocate our corporate office which may adversely impact our business. On October 23, 2006, we initiated a staged closure of our corporate office in Danvers, Massachusetts. As part of this plan, we have laid off the employees in this office. We anticipate closing this office in April 2007, when its lease expires, and transitioning the operational functions from the Danvers office to our facility in Arden Hills, Minnesota. The relocation of our corporate headquarters and the related layoffs may disrupt our operations and will likely add to employee instability and uncertainty. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected until this transition is complete. We may not be able to manage growth. If successful, we will experience a period of growth that could place a significant strain on our managerial, financial and operational resources. Our infrastructure, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our operations and to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully market our products. Our future operating results will also depend on our ability to scale up manufacturing efficiently, or expand our direct sales force and our internal sales, marketing and support staff. If we are unable to manage future expansion effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer, our management will be less effective, and our revenues and product development efforts may decrease. 8 Table of Contents We have limited manufacturing experience and capability. We currently have little manufacturing experience or capability. Today, most of our product manufacturing remains a highly manual process. We have developed, arranged for, and invested in some production tooling, but have not arranged for any significant third-party manufacturing capacity or agreements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to scale-up manufacturing of our products at quantities required to meet cost targets and profitability goals. If our manufacturing costs are higher than anticipated, we may not be able to produce and sell our products. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our subcontractors will produce sufficient products at required quality and cost levels. We will be materially adversely affected if we are unable to scale-up manufacturing successfully or enter into manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms. We have only one manufacturing facility, the loss of which would harm our revenues and damage our customer relations. We currently fabricate all of our products in our manufacturing facility located in Arden Hills, Minnesota, which is our sole source for production. A natural disaster or other event that resulted in the destruction or loss of part or all of our manufacturing facility or a work stoppage or other employee issues that interrupted or stopped production would significantly harm our business and operations and could cause our existing customers to cancel orders or not buy from us in the future. Although we believe other manufacturing facilities could manufacture our products in compliance with the FDA’s requirements, we may not be able to find an alternate facility that could meet our production requirements on short notice. Even if we found an alternate facility, our production costs likely would increase, which would harm our operating results. Our sources of supply are concentrated in a single geographic area. We currently purchase virtually all components and subassemblies for our products from vendors concentrated near our manufacturing operations in Arden Hills, Minnesota. This geographic supplier concentration heightens our exposure to adverse developments in Minnesota and the upper Midwest. Any rapid increase in our supplier costs or sudden unavailability of components or subassemblies because of adverse developments in this region could dramatically harm our overall operating results. We must maintain and develop strategic relationships with third parties to increase market penetration of our product lines. In fiscal year 2006, approximately 40% of our products were distributed through unaffiliated regional dealers or sales agents, including all of our international sales. Many aspects of our relationships with these third parties, and the success with which third parties promote distribution of our products, are beyond our control. These third parties typically do not distribute our products on an exclusive basis, and accordingly, there can be no assurance that they will continue to market our products as vigorously as they presently do or at all. The loss of qualified dealers or sales agents to market our products, particularly if these agents work with our competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international sales expose us to risks. In fiscal year 2006, international sales accounted for approximately 10% of our revenue. The international sale of medical devices exposes us to risks from unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers and restrictions, and reduced protection for intellectual property rights. In addition, all our international transactions are conducted in U.S. dollars so fluctuations in exchange rates may increase the price of our products in local currencies to the point that they become prohibitively expensive. Sales in international markets have become an increasingly large component of our business and the inability to continue selling internationally could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not continue to receive necessary FDA clearances or approvals. Our products and activities are subject to extensive, ongoing regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and other governmental authorities. Unforeseen difficulties in these processes could significantly impact our results of operations. Moreover, delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory clearances and approvals, or any failure to comply with regulatory requirements, could delay or prevent our ability to market our product line, which could impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may not receive approvals by foreign regulators that are necessary for international sales. Sales of medical devices outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. If we, or our international distributors, fail to obtain or maintain required pre-market approvals or fail to comply with foreign regulations, foreign regulatory authorities may require us to file revised governmental notifications, cease commercial sales of our products in the applicable countries or otherwise cure the problem. Such enforcement action by regulatory authorities may be costly, and any such failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims and our products may require modification if patients have complications that are potentially attributable to our products. While we have not detected significant patient complications caused by any of our products, complications may occur as the technology is used on a greater number of patients with different characteristics and under various conditions. The presence of any significant complications would necessitate a potentially expensive evaluation to determine the cause of these complications. If any complications are ultimately attributable to the design or usage of our products, we could be forced to modify their design. There can be no assurance any modifications will be acceptable to customers or be technically feasible. We have obtained product liability insurance, including excess umbrella coverage, in the aggregate amount of $7,000,000. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain this insurance in amounts and with coverage that will adequately cover associated risks or that this insurance will be available in the future at premiums that can be economically justified. Lack of this insurance, or failure of the insurance we maintain to compensate patients for complications caused by our products, could expose us to substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of losses and may experience continued losses. We have experienced losses every year since our inception. These losses have resulted because expenditures in the course of researching, developing and enhancing our technology and products and establishing our sales and marketing organization have exceeded our revenues. We expect that our operating expenses will increase in the foreseeable future. It is possible that we will never achieve or sustain the revenue levels required for profitability. We may need additional capital, which may be unavailable. The commercialization of our product line and the development and commercialization of any additional products may require greater expenditures than expected in our current business plan. Our capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: • our rate of sales growth—fast growth may actually increase our need for additional capital to hire additional staff, purchase additional component inventories, finance the increase in accounts receivable and supply additional support services; • our progress in marketing-related clinical evaluations and product development programs, all of which will require additional capital to begin and continue; • our receipt of, and the time required to obtain, regulatory clearances and approvals—the longer regulatory approval takes, the more working capital we will need to support our regulatory and development efforts in advance of sales; 10 Table of Contents • the level of resources that we devote to the development, manufacture and marketing of our products—any decision we make to improve, expand or simply change our process, products or technology will require increased funds; and • market acceptance and demand for our products—although growth may increase our capital needs, the lack of growth and continued losses would also increase our need for capital. We may be unable to predict accurately the timing and amount of our capital requirements. We may be required to raise additional funds through public or private financing, bank loans, collaborative relationships or other arrangements earlier than expected. It is possible that banks, venture capitalists and other investors may perceive our capital structure, our history of losses or the need to achieve widespread acceptance of our technology as too great a risk to bear. As a result, additional funding may not be available on attractive terms, or at all, and may result in significant dilution of existing stockholders’ interests, all of which could cause our share price to decline. If we cannot obtain additional capital when needed, we may be forced to agree to unattractive financing terms, to change our method of operation or to curtail our operations. A continued low stock price, the failure to maintain a minimum of $2.5 million of stockholders’ equity or our inability to comply with other applicable requirements could result in our being de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market and subject us to regulations that could reduce our ability to raise funds. As of January 5, 2007, the closing price of our common stock was below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days in violation of the continued listing criteria for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our stock price does not increase during the applicable cure period, we fail to maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million (and do not meet alternative tests of either having $35 million in market capitalization or $500,000 in annual net income), or we fail to satisfy other NASDAQ continued listing criteria, NASDAQ may de-list our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. In such an event, our shares could only be traded on over-the-counter bulletin board systems. This method of trading could significantly impair our ability to raise new capital. In the event that our common stock was de-listed from the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may become subject to special rules, called penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our common stock. The rules require, among other things, the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a disclosure schedule required by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the market for penny stocks. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable both to the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities, and monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information. In the event that our common stock becomes characterized as a penny stock, our market liquidity could be severely affected. The regulations relating to penny stocks could limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and thus the ability of our stockholders to sell their common stock favorably in the secondary market. All of these increased regulations and decreased liquidity could combine to depress the market price for our common stock and impair our ability to raise needed capital. Our common stock is subject to price volatility. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, including: • the sales of our common stock by affiliates or other shareholders with large holdings; • the rate of adoption by physicians of our technology in targeted markets; • the timing and extent of technological advancements or the failure to meet projected technological milestones; • results of clinical studies; • the timing of patent and regulatory approvals; • changes in, or failure to meet, financial estimates of securities analysts; 11 Table of Contents • quarterly variations in operating results; and • general market conditions. Our future operating results may fall below the expectations of securities industry analysts or investors. Any such shortfall could result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of the stock of many medical device companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may directly and adversely influence the market price of our common stock. Common stock which is available for immediate resale may depress our market price. We have filed registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering the potential resale by some of our shareholders of up to 8,597,810 shares of common stock. Additionally, as of December 31, 2006, we had 1,962,105 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance with respect to options and warrants. The existence of a substantial number of shares of common stock subject to immediate resale, or the possibility of exercise of our outstanding options and warrants, could depress the market price for our common stock and impair our ability to raise needed capital. Our common stock is thinly traded, so a shareholder may be unable to sell at or near ask price or at all if you need to liquidate your shares. Our common stock has historically been sporadically or “thinly-traded” on the NASDAQ Capital Market. For example, during one particular day in the three months ended December 31, 2006, only 200 shares of our common stock were traded. As a result, the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company, which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of these persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our common stock until we became more financially viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is low and a shareholder may be unable to sell his shares of common stock at an acceptable price, or at all. We cannot give shareholders any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that even current trading levels will be sustained. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research reports and opinions that securities or industry analysts publish about our business. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by analysts. Investors have numerous investment opportunities and may limit their investments to publicly traded companies that receive thorough research coverage. If no analysts commence coverage of us or if one or more analysts cease to cover us or fail to publish reports in a regular manner, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause a significant and prolonged decline in our stock price due to lack of investor awareness. In the event that we do obtain analyst coverage, and if one or more of the analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively about our prospects or the prospects of other companies operating in our industry, our stock price could decline significantly. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 12 Table of Contents Our internal control over financial reporting may need enhancement. If we fail to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to timely complete our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence and the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. Effective internal reporting controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively detect and prevent fraud. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be required beginning with our fiscal year ending September 30, 2008, to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, our registered independent public accounting firm will be required to report on our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and separately report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our fiscal year ending September 30, 2009. We have not yet completed our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest to our assessment, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence. Also, the lack of effective internal control over financial reporting may adversely impact our ability to prepare timely and accurate financial statements. Provisions in our shareholder rights agreement and state law may make it harder for others to obtain control of Medwave even though some stockholders might consider such a development to be favorable. We have implemented a so-called poison pill by adopting our shareholders rights agreement. This poison pill significantly increases the costs that would be incurred by an unwanted third-party acquirer if such party owns or announces its intent to commence a tender offer for more than 15% of our outstanding common stock. The existence of this poison pill could delay, deter or prevent a takeover of Medwave. Applicable Delaware General Corporation Law also imposes various procedural and other requirements that could delay or make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us more difficult. All of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, which could preclude our stockholders from recognizing a premium over the prevailing market price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 