Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves certain risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights some of these risks. 9 Table of Contents Our revenue and quarterly results may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results that may be caused by many factors. These factors include: • changes in demand for our products; • introduction, enhancement or announcement of products by us or our competitors; • market acceptance of our new products; • the growth rates of certain market segments in which we compete; • size and timing of significant orders; • budgeting cycles of customers; • mix of distribution channels; • mix of products and services sold; • mix of international and North American revenues; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • changes in the level of operating expenses; • the amount of our stock-based compensation; • reorganizations of our salesforce; • changes in our sales incentive plans; • completion or announcement of acquisitions by us or competitors; • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products announced by us or our competitors; and • general economic conditions in regions in which we conduct business. Revenue forecasting is uncertain, and the failure to meet our forecasts could result in a decline in our stock price. Most of our expenses are relatively fixed, including costs of personnel and facilities, and are not easily reduced. Thus, an unexpected reduction in our revenue, or failure to achieve the anticipated rate of growth, would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If our operating results do not meet our publicly stated guidance, if any, or the expectations of investors, our stock price may decline. Weakness in the U.S. and international economies may result in fewer sales of our products and may otherwise harm our business. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic conditions, especially those in the U.S., Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Economic growth in the United States slowed in calendar 2008 and macroeconomic conditions have deteriorated worldwide in the second half of calendar 2008. If this economic weakness continues or worsens, customers may delay, reduce or forego technology purchases, both directly and through our application partners and OEMs. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Further, deteriorating economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and their ability to pay amounts owed to us. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations expose us to additional risks, and changes in global economic and political conditions could adversely affect our international operations, our revenue and our net income. Recently, we have generated between 50% and 60% of our total revenue from sales outside North America. Political instability, oil price shocks and armed conflict in various regions of the world can lead to economic uncertainty and may adversely influence our business. If customers’ buying patterns, such as decision-making processes, timing of expected deliveries and timing of new projects, unfavorably change due to economic or political conditions, there will be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Other potential risks inherent in our international business include: • longer payment cycles; • greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • export restrictions, tariffs and other trade barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • political instability; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; • economic instability in emerging markets; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our international operations, and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We typically generate the majority of our revenue from international operations that are primarily conducted in foreign currencies. Changes in the value of these foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We seek to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates by entering into foreign exchange option and forward contracts to hedge certain transactions of selected foreign currencies (mainly in Europe, South America and Asia Pacific). Our currency hedging transactions may not be effective in reducing any adverse impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Further, the imposition of exchange or price controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Technology and customer requirements evolve rapidly in our industry, and if we do not continue to develop new products and enhance our existing products in response to these changes, our business could be harmed. Ongoing enhancements to our product sets will be required to enable us to maintain our competitive position. We may not be successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our products on a timely basis, and any enhancements we develop may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Overlaying the risks associated with our existing products and enhancements are ongoing technological developments and rapid changes in customer requirements. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products that take advantage of technological advances and respond to new customer requirements. The development of new products is increasingly complex and uncertain, which increases the risk of delays. We may not be successful in developing new products incorporating new technology on a timely basis, and any new products may not adequately address the changing needs of the marketplace. Failure to develop new products and product enhancements that meet market needs in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are substantially dependent on our Progress OpenEdge product line. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from software license and maintenance revenue attributable to our Progress OpenEdge product line, and other products that complement OpenEdge and are generally licensed only in conjunction with OpenEdge. Accordingly, our future results depend on continued market acceptance of OpenEdge, and any factor adversely affecting the market for OpenEdge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Higher costs associated with some of our newer products could adversely affect our operating margins. Some of our newer products, such as the SOA Infrastructure and Apama product sets, require a higher level of development, distribution and support expenditures, on a percentage of revenue basis, than the OpenEdge or DataDirect product lines. If revenue generated from these products grows as a percentage of our total revenue and if the expenses associated with these products do not decrease on a percentage of revenue basis, then our operating margins will be adversely affected. We face various risks in connection with our acquisition of IONA Technologies PLC. On September 12, 2008, we completed the acquisition of IONA. We face various risks in connection with our acquisition of IONA, including the effects of disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, licensees, other business partners or governmental entities, other business effects, including the effects of industry, economic or political conditions outside of our or IONA’s control, transaction costs, actual or contingent liabilities, diversion of management, uncertainties as to whether anticipated synergies will be realized and uncertainties as to whether IONA’s business will be successfully integrated with our business. Any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the combined business, our results of operations and our financial condition. We expect to make acquisitions or investments in new businesses, products or technologies that involve additional risks, which could disrupt our business or harm our financial condition or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions of businesses or investments in companies that offer complementary products, services and technologies. If we are unable to identify and complete such acquisitions, we may not achieve our revenue or earnings targets. Any acquisitions we do complete involve a number of risks, including the risks of assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, realizing the value of the acquired assets relative to the price paid, distraction of management from our ongoing businesses and potential product disruptions associated with the sale of the acquired company’s products. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The consideration we pay for any future acquisitions could include our stock. As a result, future acquisitions could cause dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share. If our products contain software defects or security flaws, it could harm our revenues and expose us to litigation. Our products are complex to develop and, despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain defects or security flaws, especially when we first introduce them or when new versions are released. We may need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix any defects or errors. The detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect 11 Table of Contents market acceptance of our products and could expose us to potential litigation. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, such errors or delays could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. We recognize a substantial portion of our revenue from sales made through third parties, including our application partners and OEMs, and adverse developments in the businesses of these third parties or in our relationships with them could harm our revenues and results of operations. Our future results depend upon our continued successful distribution of our products through our application partner and OEM channels. Application partners utilize our technology to create their applications and resell our products along with their own applications. OEMs embed our products within their software products or technology devices. The activities of these third parties are not within our direct control. Our failure to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively could impair the success of our sales, marketing and support activities. A reduction in the sales efforts, technical capabilities or financial viability of these parties, a misalignment of interest between us and them, or a termination of our relationship with a major application partner or OEM could have a negative effect on our sales and financial results. Any adverse effect on the application partners’ or OEMs’ businesses related to competition, pricing and other factors could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The segments of the software industry in which we participate are intensely competitive, and our inability to compete effectively would harm our business. We experience significant competition from a variety of sources with respect to the marketing and distribution of our products. Many of our competitors have greater financial, marketing or technical resources than we do and may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products than we can. Increased competition could make it more difficult for us to maintain our market presence or lead to downward pricing pressure. The marketplace for new products is intensely competitive and characterized by low barriers to entry. For example, an increase in market acceptance of open source software may cause downward pricing pressures. As a result, new competitors possessing technological, marketing or other competitive advantages may emerge and rapidly acquire market share. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, thereby increasing their ability to deliver products that better address the needs of our prospective customers. Current and potential competitors also may be more successful than we are in having their products or technologies widely accepted. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. The market for SOA infrastructure, enterprise integration and messaging products and services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and failure of our SonicESB and other integration infrastructure products to achieve and maintain market acceptance could harm our business. We are currently developing and enhancing our Integration Infrastructure product set and other related new products and services. The market for SOA infrastructure, enterprise application integration, Web services, messaging products and other Internet business-to-business products is highly competitive. Many potential customers have made significant investments in proprietary or internally developed systems and would incur significant costs in switching to the Sonic and/or Actional product sets or other third-party products. Global e-commerce and online exchange of information on the Internet and other similar open wide area networks continue to evolve. If our SOA infrastructure products are not successful in penetrating these evolving markets, our results of operations will be adversely affected. The market for enterprise software products and services in which our Apama product line participates is rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and failure of our Apama products to achieve and maintain market acceptance could harm our business. We are currently developing and enhancing the Apama product set and other related new products and services. The market for complex event processing products is highly competitive, and continues to evolve rapidly. If our Apama products are not successful in penetrating these evolving markets, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We face risks related to the ongoing SEC investigation regarding our past practices with respect to stock options and the restatement of our financial statements. On June 23, 2006, we received written notice that the Enforcement Staff in the Boston, Massachusetts office of the SEC had begun an informal inquiry into our option-granting practices during the period December 1, 1995 through November 30, 2002. On December 19, 2006, the SEC informed us that it had issued a formal order of investigation into our option-granting practices during the period December 1, 1995 through the present. We are unable to predict with certainty what consequences may arise from the SEC investigation. We have already incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant legal expenses arising from the investigation. If the SEC institutes legal action, we could face significant fines and penalties and be required to take remedial actions determined by the SEC or a court. Although we have filed certain restated financial statements that we believe correct the accounting errors arising from our past option-granting practices, the filing of those financial statements did not resolve the pending SEC inquiry. The SEC has not indicated to us whether it has reviewed our restated financial statements, and any SEC review could lead to further restatements or other modifications of our financial statements. 12 Table of Contents We rely on the experience and expertise of our skilled employees, and must continue to attract and retain qualified technical, marketing and managerial personnel in order to succeed. Our future success will depend in a large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel. There is significant competition for such personnel in the software industry. We may not continue to be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to develop new and enhanced products and to continue to grow and operate profitably. Our success is dependent upon our proprietary software technology, and our inability to protect it would harm our business. We rely principally on a combination of contract provisions and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult. The steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology; moreover, others could independently develop similar technology. We could be subject to claims that we infringe intellectual property rights of others, or incur substantial cost in protecting our own technology, either of which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or to defend against claims of infringement. Third parties could assert infringement claims in the future with respect to our products and technology, and such claims might be successful. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, whether or not we ultimately prevail on the merits. Such litigation could also lead to our being prohibited from selling one or more of our products, cause reluctance by potential customers to purchase our products, or result in liability to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The loss of technology licensed from third parties could adversely affect our ability to deliver our products. We utilize certain technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. This technology, or functionally similar technology, may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, or at all. The loss of any significant third-party technology license could cause delays in our ability to deliver our products or services until equivalent technology is developed internally or equivalent third-party technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. Our common stock price may continue to be volatile, which could result in losses for investors. The market price of our common stock, like that of other technology companies, is highly volatile and is subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or other events or factors. Our stock price may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to our performance. As a result, purchasers of our common stock may be unable at any given time to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible in the short term, and we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these securities through an impairment charge. As of November 30, 2008, we had approximately $62.4 million in investments related to auction rate securities (ARS) that are classified as noncurrent. Our ARS are floating rate securities with longer-term maturities which are marketed by financial institutions with auction reset dates primarily at 28 or 35 day intervals to provide short-term liquidity. Beginning in February 2008, auctions for these securities began to fail, which has resulted in higher interest rates earned on these securities. However, the investments lack short-term liquidity. The remaining contractual maturities of these securities range from 7 to 38 years. While we do not currently anticipate the lack of liquidity of our ARS to adversely affect our ability to conduct business, we will not be able to access these remaining funds until a future auction for these ARS is successful, we sell the securities in a secondary market, or they are redeemed by the issuer, or with respect to certain ARS, we have the opportunity to exercise a put right. In fiscal 2008, we recorded a temporary impairment charge in accumulated other comprehensive income of $7.2 million to reduce the value of our available-for-sale ARS investments. In addition, if the credit rating of either the security issuer or the third-party insurer underlying the investments deteriorates, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the ARS through an other than temporary impairment charge to current period earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the date of this report, we do not have any open comments or communications from the SEC related to our financial statements or periodic filings with the SEC. 13 Table of Contents 