RISK FACTORS We have a history of operating losses, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. We are a medical device company with a limited operating history. We are not profitable and have incurred losses since our inception. Substantial doubt exists about our ability to continue as a going concern as a result of anticipated capital needs as well as past recurring losses and an accumulated deficit. Our net loss for year ended December 31, 2015 was $46.9 million, and our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2015 was $182.9 million. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with cash received from sales of our products, will not be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses will likely increase as we continue to develop and commercialize our products and product candidates. We will continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations, and expect to increase our sales and marketing expenses as we increase our sales and marketing activities for the ALF-X System and, once approved, the SurgiBot System. If our products fail in development or do not gain regulatory clearance or approval, or if our products do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. We will require substantial additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. The net proceeds of recent equity financings, including the public offering of our common stock completed in June 2015, will not be sufficient to support development of our products and product candidates and provide us with the necessary resources to commercialize these products and product candidates. While we are currently focused on our ALF-X System, and our SurgiBot System product in development, we intend to advance multiple additional products through clinical and pre-clinical development in the future. We will need to raise substantial additional capital in order to continue our operations and achieve our business’ objectives. We have filed shelf registration statements which have been declared effective by the SEC. As of December 31, 2015, we had $80.8 million available for future financings, however approximately $43.6 million may now be raised under the ATM offering we initiated in February 2016. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining such additional financing on terms acceptable to the Company or at all. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: • the costs of our ALF-X System and SurgiBot System commercialization and development activities; 16 Table of Contents • the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory clearances and approvals for both SurgiBot System and the ALF-X System; • the costs associated with establishing a sales force and commercialization capabilities; • the costs associated with the expansion of our manufacturing capabilities; • our need to expand our research and development activities; • the costs of acquiring, licensing or investing in businesses, products and technologies; • the economic and other terms and timing of our existing licensing arrangement and any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter in the future; • our need and ability to hire additional management, scientific, medical and sales and marketing personnel; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • our need to implement additional internal systems and infrastructure, including financial and reporting systems, quality systems and information technology systems; and • our ability to maintain, expand and defend the scope of our intellectual property portfolio. Until we generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which may never occur, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic collaborations. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution; and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that limit our operations. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our products or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. We are highly dependent on the success of the SurgiBot System and the ALF-X System, and we cannot give any assurance that these products will receive regulatory clearance in the U.S. or that they or future products will be successfully commercialized. We are highly dependent on the success of our products, especially the ALF-X System and the SurgiBot System. We cannot give any assurance that the FDA will grant regulatory clearance for the SurgiBot System or the ALF-X System, nor can we give any assurance that the ALF-X System, the SurgiBot System or any of our other products will be successfully commercialized, for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, the potential introduction by our competitors of more clinically effective or cost-effective alternatives, or failure in our sales and marketing efforts. Any failure to obtain market access for our products or to successfully commercialize them would have a material and adverse effect on our business. Regulatory authorities may change requirements for the clearance of a product regardless of previous discussions with the company. These regulatory authorities may also clear a product for fewer or more limited uses than we request. In addition, the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve or clear the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our products. 17 Table of Contents We expect that our sales cycle will be lengthy and unpredictable, which will make it difficult for us to forecast revenue and increase the magnitude of quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Purchase of a surgical robotic system such as the ALF-X System and, once cleared, the SurgiBot System represents a capital purchase by hospitals and other potential customers. The capital purchase nature of the transaction, the complexity of our product, the relative newness of surgical robotics and the competitive landscape requires us to spend substantial time and effort to assist potential customers in evaluating our robotic systems. We must communicate with multiple surgeons, administrative staff and executives within each potential customer in order to receive all approvals on behalf of such organizations. We may face difficulty identifying and establishing contact with such decision makers. Even after initial acceptance, the negotiation and documentation processes can be lengthy. Additionally, our customers may have stricter limitations on spending given the current economic climate. We expect our sales cycle to typically range between six and twelve months, but it may be longer. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. We also expect such lengthy sales cycle makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue in future periods and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly in future periods. We may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of the ALF-X technology, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our ability to successfully integrate the business of our Italian subsidiary, TransEnterix Italia, which relates to the manufacture, development and commercialization of the ALF-X System with our existing business will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from the expanded market opportunity presented by the acquisition of the technology and the establishment of international operations. To realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, we must successfully integrate TransEnterix Italia with our other operations and combine our respective operations, technologies and personnel, which is particularly challenging given the geographic and cultural differences between the personnel and facilities based in North Carolina and Italy. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within a reasonable time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that, without proper planning and effective and timely implementation, could significantly disrupt our operations. Further, it is possible that the integration process could adversely affect our ability to maintain the pace of our SurgiBot System research and development operations, result in the loss of key employees and other senior management, or to otherwise achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Risks in integrating TransEnterix Italia into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition include, among other factors: • coordinating research and development activities to enhance the commercialization of newly acquired technology; • incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines; • incurring higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, and in general and administrative functions that support such products; • failing to successfully integrate and harmonize financial reporting and information technology systems of the two companies; • retaining each company’s relationships with its customers, suppliers and partners; 18 Table of Contents • retaining and integrating key employees; • managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • managing the diversion of management’s attention from business matters to integration issues; and • complying with regulatory and business requirements both globally and in the U.S. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual cost synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate the ALF-X System business into our business, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration. Even if integration is successful, anticipated benefits and synergies may not be achieved. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which may affect the value of our common stock. Our global operations expose us to additional risks and challenges associated with conducting business internationally. The international expansion of our business through the addition of an Italian subsidiary may expose us to risks inherent in conducting foreign operations. These risks include: • challenges associated with managing geographically diverse operations, which require an effective organizational structure and appropriate business processes, procedures and controls; • the increased cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, including compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations; • currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions, if we chose to do so in the future; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • complexities and difficulties in obtaining protection and enforcing our intellectual property; • compliance with additional regulations and government authorities in a highly regulated business; and • general economic and political conditions in Italy. The risks that the Company faces in its international operations may continue to intensify as the Company further develops and expands its international operations. Our business may become subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with domestic and international operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business domestically and internationally, in part due to some of our suppliers being located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • difficulties in compliance with U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations; 19 Table of Contents • changes in U.S. and non-U.S. regulations and customs; • changes in non-U.S. currency exchange rates and currency controls; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic environment; • trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by U.S. or non-U.S. governments; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and • difficulties associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including differing labor relations. If we cannot achieve sufficient margins for our SurgiBot System, it may not be commercially successful. The commercial viability of our SurgiBot System is a significant focus of our product development efforts. Competition in our industry is intense and we need to provide a commercially sustainable product. Although we expect our initial gross margins to be lower as we ramp up manufacturing, we need to produce a product with sufficient gross margins. Additionally, our SurgiBot System is designed with reusable and limited-life components, and we may not be able to meet reusability targets for applicable components at launch. If we are not successful, our revenue growth may be slower than expected and it could have a material adverse impact on our business. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our products and future products, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many medical device companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address minimally invasive and robotic-assisted surgery, including new entrants in the competitive market. We are currently developing and commercializing medical devices, including the ALF-X System and the SurgiBot System, that will compete with other medical devices that currently exist or are being developed. Products we may develop in the future are also likely to face competition from other medical devices and therapies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources than we do. Large medical device companies, in particular, have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals for medical devices. These companies also have significantly greater research and marketing capabilities than we do. Some of the medical device companies we expect to compete with include Applied Medical, Titan Medical, Medtronic plc, Intuitive Surgical, Johnson & Johnson, Google and a number of minimally invasive surgical device, robotic surgical device manufacturers and providers of products and therapies that are designed to reduce the need for or attractiveness of surgical intervention. In addition, many other universities and private and public research institutions are or may become active in research involving surgical devices for minimally invasive and robotic-assisted surgery. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: • the efficacy, safety and reliability of our products; • the speed at which we develop our products; • our ability to commercialize and market any of our products that may receive regulatory clearance or approval; 20 Table of Contents • the cost of our products in relation to alternative devices; • the timing and scope of regulatory clearances or approvals; • whether our competitors substantially reduce the cost of ownership of an alternative device; • our ability to protect and defend intellectual property rights related to our products; • our ability to have our partners manufacture and sell commercial quantities of any approved products to the market; • the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors for the procedures in which our products are used; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; and • acceptance of future products by physicians and other health care providers. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer, easier to use or less expensive than our products or future products, or that reach the market sooner than our products, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological change. It may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or products obsolete or less competitive. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our financial resources and our ability to operate our business. We are party with Silicon Valley Bank and Oxford Finance LLC (the “Lenders”), to, and jointly and severally liable with certain of our U.S. subsidiaries for, $20.0 million of outstanding debt under term loans issued under the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, as amended (the “Loan Agreement”). Under the Loan Agreement, the maximum borrowing potential is up to $30.0 million. We were entitled to make interest-only payments until January 31, 2016. The maturity date of the outstanding term loan is July 1, 2018. Our resulting substantial level of indebtedness and other financial obligations increase the possibility that we may be unable to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on, or other amounts due in respect of, our indebtedness. Further, under the Loan Agreement, we are subject to certain restrictive covenants that, among other things, may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital requirements, product development activities, debt service requirements, and general corporate or other purposes. These restrictive covenants include, without limitation, restrictions on our ability to: (1) change the nature of our business; (2) incur additional indebtedness; (3) incur liens; (4) make certain investments; (5) make certain dispositions of assets; (6) merge, dissolve, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets; (7) enter into transactions with affiliates; and (8) transfer more than designated amounts to TransEnterix Italia during the term of the Loan Agreement. If we breach any of these restrictive covenants or are unable to pay our indebtedness under the Loan Agreement when due, this could result in a default under the Loan Agreement. In such event, the Lenders may elect (after the expiration of any applicable notice or grace periods) to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable under the Loan Agreement, to be immediately due and payable. Any such occurrence would have an immediate and materially adverse impact on our business and results of operations. The Loan Agreement is secured by a security interest in all assets of the Company and its current and future U.S. subsidiaries, including a security interest in intellectual property proceeds, but excluding a current security interest in intellectual property. 21 Table of Contents Our product development activities could be delayed or stopped. We do not know whether our current product development activities will result in products that meet necessary standards and performance criteria and whether the development will be completed on schedule. Delays could occur based on a number of issues that could arise. For example, should clinical trials be required, their completion could be substantially delayed and their outcome could lead to realization that the devices are not ready for commercialization. In addition other issues, such as the need to investigate third party patents and potential infringement matters, although not currently an issue, could arise thereby delaying our development efforts. Some of our technologies are in an early stage of development and not yet proven. Further, our related product research and development activities may not lead to our technologies and products being commercially viable. We are engaged in the research and development of minimally invasive surgical devices, robotic surgical devices, and medical devices. The effectiveness of our technologies is not well known in, or may not be accepted generally by, the clinical medical community. Further, our products are prone to the risks of failure inherent in medical device product development. In particular, any of our products may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits. A number of companies in the medical device industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results at earlier points. The occurrence of any such events would have a material adverse effect on our business. The results of previous clinical experience with our devices and devices similar to those that we are developing may not be indicative of future results and may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Positive results from limited in vivo and ex vivo animal trials and other early development work we have conducted or early clinical experience with the test articles or with similar devices should not be relied upon as evidence that later-stage clinical experience will be successful. The results of clinical trials may not support future product candidates or claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects. In the future, we may need to conduct clinical trials to support approval or commercialization of new products, and any future clinical trial activities that we undertake will be subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. Clinical studies intended to support a 510(k) or PMA must be conducted in compliance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practice regulations and similar requirements in foreign jurisdictions. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product candidate claims or that the FDA or foreign authorities and Notified Bodies will agree with our conclusions regarding them. Success in pre-clinical studies and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the later trials will replicate the results of prior trials and pre-clinical studies. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of others. Any delay or termination of our clinical trials will delay the filing of associated product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize products requiring 22 Table of Contents submission of clinical data. It is also possible that patients enrolled in a clinical trial will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product candidate’s safety profile, which could cause us to delay or abandon development of such product. The regulatory approval and clearance processes are expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals or clearances, as the case may be, for the commercialization of some or all of our products. The product development and design, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, clearance, selling, marketing and distribution of medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, which regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market our products in the United States until we receive a clearance letter under the 510(k) process or approval of a PMA from the FDA, depending on the nature of the device. Obtaining approval of any PMA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. While the FDA normally reviews a premarket notification in 90 days, there is no guarantee that our future products will qualify for this more expeditious regulatory process, which is reserved for Class I and II devices, nor is there any assurance, even if a device is reviewed under the 510(k) premarket notification process, that the FDA will review it expeditiously or determine that the device is substantially equivalent to a lawfully marketed non-PMA device. If the FDA asks questions during a 510(k) process, the time required to answer the questions can extend the time to market up to an additional six months. If the company cannot sufficiently answer the questions, or for a variety of other reasons the FDA does not provide clearance for a product candidate, such as the SurgiBot System, we cannot market the device. Regulatory approval of a PMA, PMA supplement or clearance pursuant to a 510(k) premarket notification is not guaranteed, and the approval or clearance process, as the case may be, is expensive, uncertain and may, especially in the case of the PMA application, take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the medical device clearance process or approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional development, standardized testing, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA clearance or approval varies depending on the medical device candidate, the disease or condition that the medical device candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular medical device candidate. The FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a medical device candidate for many reasons, including: • a medical device candidate may not be deemed safe or effective, in the case of a PMA application; • a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a device lawfully marketed either as a grandfathered device or one that was cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification process; • a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be in conformance with applicable standards and regulations; • FDA or other regulatory officials may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA might not approve our processes or facilities or those of any of our third-party manufacturers for our Class III PMA devices; • other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve our processes or facilities or those of any of our third-party manufacturers, thereby restricting export; or 23 Table of Contents • the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change clearance or approval policies or adopt new regulations. Once our products are cleared or approved, modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances, premarket approvals or new or amended CE Certificates of Conformity, and may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances, approvals or the relevant CE Certificates of Conformity are obtained. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review such determinations. The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations for any future changes, or prior changes to previously marketed products, as the case may be, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified products until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. Furthermore, the FDA’s ongoing review of the 510(k) program may make it more difficult for us to make modifications to our products, either by imposing more strict requirements on when a new 510(k) for a modification to a previously cleared product must be submitted, or applying more onerous review criteria to such submissions. In July and December 2011, respectively, the FDA issued draft guidance documents addressing when to submit a new 510(k) due to modifications to 510(k) cleared products and the criteria for evaluating substantial equivalence. The July 2011 draft guidance document was ultimately withdrawn as the result of the FDASIA, and as a result, the FDA’s original guidance document regarding 510(k) modifications, which dates back to 1997, remains in place. It is uncertain when the FDA will seek to issue new guidance on product modifications. Any efforts to do so could result in a more rigorous review process and make it more difficult to obtain clearance for device modifications. Even if we obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for our products, the terms thereof and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products, which could materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues. Once regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, the cleared or approved product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Any cleared or approved product may be promoted only for its indicated uses. In addition, if the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities clear or approve any of our products, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We and any outsourced manufacturers of our products are also required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (“QSR”), or similar requirements of non-U.S. regulatory authorities which includes requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation as well as other quality system requirements and regulations from non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Further, regulatory agencies must approve our manufacturing facilities for Class III devices before they can be used to manufacture our products, and all manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA, either before or after clearance or approval, or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; 24 Table of Contents • adverse inspectional observations (“Form 483”), warning letters, non-warning letters incorporating inspectional observations; • civil or criminal penalties or fines; • injunctions; • product seizures, detentions or import bans; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances or approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; • imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • refusal to clear or approve pending applications or premarket notifications; and • import and export restrictions. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, our key component suppliers may not currently be or may not continue to be in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements, which could result in our failure to produce our products on a timely basis and in the required quantities, if at all. In addition, the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change their policies and additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory clearance or approval of our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we would likely not be permitted to market our future products and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. Even after clearance or approval for our products is obtained, we are subject to extensive post-market regulation by the FDA. Our failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. Even after we have obtained the proper regulatory clearance or approval to market a product, the FDA has the power to require us to conduct post-market studies. These studies can be very expensive and time-consuming to conduct. Failure to complete such studies in a timely manner could result in the revocation of clearance or approval and the recall or withdrawal of the product, which could prevent us from generating sales from that product in the United States. The FDA has broad enforcement powers, and any regulatory enforcement actions or inquiries, or other increased scrutiny on us, could dissuade some surgeons from using our products and adversely affect our reputation and the perceived safety and efficacy of our products. We are also required to comply with the FDA’s QSR, which covers the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage, shipping, installation and servicing of our marketed products. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. In addition, in the future, regulatory authorities and/or customers may require specific packaging of sterile products, which could increase our costs and the price of our products. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturing problems, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR, may 25 Table of Contents result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. If one of our products, or a malfunction of one of our products, causes or contributes to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDA’s medical device reporting (“MDR”) regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. Repeated product malfunctions may result in a voluntary or involuntary product recall, which could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. We are also required to follow detailed recordkeeping requirements for all firm-initiated medical device corrections and removals, and to report such corrective and removal actions to the FDA if they are carried out in response to a risk to health and have not otherwise been reported under the MDR regulations. All manufacturers bringing medical devices to market in the European Economic Area (“EEA”) are legally bound to report any incident that led or might have led to the death or serious deterioration in the state of health of a patient, user or other person, and which the manufacturer’s device is suspected to have caused, to the competent authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. In such case, the manufacturer must file an initial report with the relevant competent authority, which would be followed by further evaluation or investigation of the incident and a final report indicating whether further action is required. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Adverse events involving our products have been reported to us in the past, and we cannot guarantee that they will not occur in the future. Any corrective action, whether voluntary or involuntary, will require the dedication of our time and capital, distract management from operating our business and may harm our reputation and financial results. A recall of our products, either voluntarily or at the direction of the FDA or another governmental authority, or the discovery of serious safety issues with our products, could have a significant adverse impact on us. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities such as the competent authorities of the EEA countries have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us or one of our distributors could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. Any future recalls of any of our products would divert managerial and financial resources and could have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition, which could impair our ability to produce our products in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to meet our customers’ demands. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. 26 Table of Contents U.S. legislative or FDA regulatory reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates and to manufacture, market and distribute our products after approval is obtained. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. For example, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently cleared products on a timely basis. For example, the FDA recently held a public workshop to gather input on evidentiary requirements for new and modified robotically-assisted surgical devices. The company would need to align its submissions and business practices with any resulting guidance documents published by the agency. Any change in the laws, regulations or guidance that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market and distribute existing products. Significant delays in receiving clearance or approval, or the failure to receive clearance or approval for our new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, privacy and security and physician payment transparency laws. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face substantial penalties. Our business activities are subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. Such laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, false claims, privacy and security and physician payment transparency laws. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Current legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there to continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory initiatives, at both the federal and state government levels, to change the healthcare system in ways that, if approved, could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. While many of the proposed policy changes require congressional approval to implement, we cannot assure you that reimbursement payments under governmental and private third-party payor programs to health care providers will remain 27 Table of Contents at levels comparable to present levels or will be sufficient to cover the costs allocable to patients eligible for reimbursement under these programs. Any changes that lower reimbursement rates under Medicare, Medicaid or private payor programs could negatively affect our business. To the extent that any of our products are deemed to be durable medical equipment (“DME”), they may be subject to distribution under Medicare’s Competitive Acquisition regulations, which could adversely affect the amount that we can seek from payors. Non-DME devices used in surgical procedures are normally paid directly by the hospital or health care provider and not reimbursed separately by third-party payors. As a result, these types of devices are subject to intense price competition that can place a small manufacturer at a competitive disadvantage as hospitals and health care providers attempt to negotiate lower prices for products such as the ones we develop and sell. Most significantly, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law both the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Affordable Care Act”) and the reconciliation law known as Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (the “Reconciliation Act”, and, with the Affordable Care Act, the “2010 Health Care Reform Legislation”). The Supreme Court of the United States upheld fundamental aspects of the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation in June 2012 and again in June 2015. Specifically, the Supreme Court upheld the individual mandate included changes regarding the extension of medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage, and affirmed that subsidies are available to participants enrolled in both state and federally created health care exchanges. Thus, the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation has changed the existing state of the health care system by expanding coverage through voluntary state Medicaid expansion, attracting previously uninsured persons through the new health care insurance exchanges and by modifying the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of third-party payors and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Beyond coverage and reimbursement changes, the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation subjects manufacturers of medical devices to an excise tax of 2.3% on certain U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in January 2013. This excise tax was suspended in December 2015 for two years, however, if eventually implemented, this excise tax will likely increase our expenses in the future. Further, the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation includes the Open Payments Act (formerly referred to as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act), which, in conjunction with its implementing regulations, requires certain manufacturers of certain drugs, biologics, and devices that are reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program to report annually certain payments or “transfers of value” provided to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report annually ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. We provided reports under the Open Payments Act to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”). The failure to report appropriate data accurately, timely, and completely could subject us to significant financial penalties. Other countries and several states currently have similar laws and more may enact similar legislation. Regulations under the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation have been, and are expected to continue to be, drafted, released and finalized throughout the next several years. The full impact of the 2010 Health Care Reform Legislation, as well as laws and other reform measures that may be proposed and adopted in the future, remains uncertain, but may continue the downward pressure on medical device pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. 28 Table of Contents Finally, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any cost containment measures or other health care system reforms that are adopted could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to commercialize our existing and future products successfully. Even if we receive regulatory clearance or approval to market our products, the market may not be receptive to our products, which could undermine our financial viability. Even if our products obtain regulatory clearance or approval, resulting products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and/or the medical community. We experienced minimal sales of our SPIDER System and AMID HFD stapler (both products were discontinued in 2014) and have not made any sales of the SurgiBot System or the ALF-X System, to date. We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: • timing of market introduction of competitive products; • safety and efficacy of our products; • physician training in the use of our products; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • strength of marketing and distribution support; and • price of our future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments. If applicable, availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payors can also impact the acceptance of our product offerings. If we fail to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our products. We will need to effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial, development, marketing and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization efforts for our existing and future products. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management, particularly Todd M. Pope, Joseph P. Slattery and Anthony Fernando, could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our products. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. We employ these individuals on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our research and development activities and build a sales and marketing organization. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical device and other businesses. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements in a timely fashion or at all and our business may be harmed as a result. 29 Table of Contents Because our design, development and manufacturing capabilities are limited, we may rely on third parties to design, develop, manufacture or supply some of our products. An inability to find additional or alternate sources for these services and products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have used third-party design and development sources to assist in the design and development of our medical device products. In the future, we may choose to use additional third-party sources for the design and development of our products. If these design and development partners are unable to provide their services in the timeframe or to the performance level that we require, we may not be able to establish a contract and obtain a sufficient alternative supply from another supplier on a timely basis and in the manner that we require. Our products require precise, high quality manufacturing. We and our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities to ensure strict compliance with the quality systems regulations, current “good manufacturing practices” and other applicable government regulations and corresponding standards. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with QSR, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Any performance failure by us or on the part of our design and development partners or contract manufacturers could delay product development or regulatory clearance or approval of our products, or commercialization of our products and future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on any third party for design, development or manufacturing could adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace any then-existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and, in the case of Class III devices, the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before manufacturing can begin. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We may become subject to potential product liability claims, and we may be required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the design, testing, manufacture, sale and distribution of our products and each of our product candidates that we are seeking to introduce to the market. Surgical medical devices involve significant risks of serious complications, including bleeding, nerve injury, paralysis, infection, and even death. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in the increase of our product liability insurance rates or in our inability to secure coverage in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, if our product liability insurance proves to be inadequate to pay a damage award, we may have to pay the excess of this award out of our cash reserves, which could significantly harm our financial condition. If longer-term patient results and experience indicate that our products or any component of a product causes tissue damage, motor impairment or other adverse effects, we could be subject to significant liability. A product liability claim, even one without merit, could harm our reputation in the industry, lead to significant legal fees, and result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. 30 Table of Contents We currently have a limited sales, marketing and distribution organization. If we are unable to develop our sales, marketing and distribution capability on our own or through collaborations with marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing our products. Although we have recently expanded our commercial organization, we currently have limited marketing, sales and distribution capabilities. We intend to distribute our products through direct sales and independent contractor and distribution agreements with companies possessing established sales and marketing operations in the medical device industry, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in building our sales capabilities. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly market or sell our products. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend in whole or in part upon the efforts of such third parties, which may not be successful and are generally not within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products. If we are not successful in commercializing our existing and future products, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products, our business could be materially harmed. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or license under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some patents required for us to commercialize our proposed products. In the United States, we, or one of our subsidiaries, have or licensed 7 issued patents and over 40 pending patent applications. Many of these relate to the SPIDER System, the SurgiBot System, the ALF-X System, instruments useful with those systems, or alternatives to those systems. We have also filed patent applications abroad for the SurgiBot System, ALF-X System and the SPIDER System. Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we or our third-party collaborators may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third-party patent or otherwise circumvent the third-party patent. Our strategy depends on our ability to promptly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. In addition, we will rely on third-party collaborators to file patent applications relating to proprietary technology that we develop jointly during certain collaborations. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming. If our present or future collaborators fail to file and prosecute all necessary and desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. Despite our efforts and the efforts of our collaborators to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to develop and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent provides a presumption, but does not guarantee that it is valid. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged or potentially circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”) may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any such challenge to our patents or patent applications 31 Table of Contents would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, future court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of any patent, including those owned by medical device companies. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of medical device companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in medical device patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, the enforceability or scope of our owned or licensed patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties. We cannot assure you that any patents that will issue, that may issue or that may be licensed to us will be enforceable or valid or will not expire prior to the commercialization of our products, thus allowing others to more effectively compete with us. Therefore, any patents that we own or license may not adequately protect our future products. For our ALF-X System, we rely on our license from the European Union, and any loss of our rights under such license agreement, or failure to properly prosecute, maintain or enforce the patent applications underlying such license agreement, could materially adversely affect our business prospects for the ALF-X System. Some of the patents and patent applications in our patent portfolio related to the ALF-X System are licensed to TransEnterix Italia under a license agreement with the European Union. Presently, we rely on such licensed technology for our ALF-X System products and may license additional technology from the European Union or other third parties in the future. The EU license agreement gives us rights for the commercial exploitation of the licensed patents, patent applications and know-how, subject to certain provisions of the license agreement. Failure to comply with these provisions could result in the loss of our rights under the EU license agreement. Our inability to rely on these patents and patent applications which are the basis of certain aspects of our ALF-X System technology would have an adverse effect on our business. Further, our success will depend in part on the ability of us, the European Union and other third-party licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property and, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. We, the European Union or other third-party licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications which are licensed to us, may fail to maintain these patents, and may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than necessary to obtain an acceptable outcome from any such litigation. Without protection for the intellectual property we have licensed, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could materially adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents If we or our licensors are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we will seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also generally provide and will generally provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third-party patent or circumvent the third-party patent, which would be costly and would require significant time and attention of our management. Third parties may have or obtain valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing products using our technology. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts, any of which could materially adversely affect our liquidity, business prospects and results of operations. Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. Furthermore, in connection with our third-party license agreements, we generally have agreed to indemnify the licensor for costs incurred in connection with litigation relating to intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. 33 Table of Contents If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2015, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $194.3 million, which was 78% of total assets. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and share price declines may impair our goodwill and other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Our stockholders have experienced dilution of their percentage ownership of our stock and may experience additional dilution in the future. In the June 2015 public offering, and in the ALF-X Acquisition, we issued a significant number of new shares of common stock to increase our outstanding shares of common stock to over 100,000,000 shares. The issuance of these shares caused existing stockholders at the time of the public offering and ALF-X Acquisition to experience immediate and significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our outstanding common stock. In addition, from February 2015 through February 2016, we offered and sold, through Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., as sales agent, $25 million in shares of common stock in an at-the-market offering. On February 9, 2016, we entered into a new “at-the-market” facility with Cantor under which we can offer and sell, through Cantor, up to approximately $43.6 million in shares of common stock. We will need to raise substantial additional capital in order to continue our operations and achieve our business objectives. The future issuance of the Company’s equity securities will further dilute the ownership of our outstanding common stock. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile, and such volatility could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and could cause you to lose some or all of your investment in our common stock. During the two year period ended December 31, 2015, the market price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $14.00 per share to a low of $1.40 per share, and our stock price continues to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; 34 Table of Contents • developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; • variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our common stock is covered by analysts; • developments in the medical device industry; • the results of product liability or intellectual property lawsuits; • future issuances of common stock or other securities; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for medical device companies in particular, has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The volatility of our common stock is further exacerbated due to its low trading volume. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock and the loss of some or all of your investment. Trading of our common stock is limited, and trading restrictions imposed on us by applicable regulations may further reduce trading in our common stock, making it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares; and future sales of common stock could reduce our stock price. Trading of our common stock is currently conducted on the NYSE MKT. The liquidity of our common stock is limited, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also as it may be adversely affected by delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us, if at all. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 46% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock were held by officers, directors and beneficial owners of at least 10% of our outstanding shares, each of whom is subject to certain restrictions with regard to trading our common stock. These factors may result in different prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained in a more liquid market and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. In addition, without a large public float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his investment in our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade in the future, if at all. Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares of common stock, the issuance of new shares of common stock by us or the perception that these sales may occur in the future could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2015, our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 46% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our board of directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This 35 Table of Contents concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. In connection with the ALF-X Acquisition, we entered into a lock-up agreement with SOFAR. In connection with the ALF-X Acquisition, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 21, 2015, with SOFAR, pursuant to which the Company agreed to register the for resale following the end of the lock-up periods described below. In connection with the ALF-X Acquisition, SOFAR entered into a Lock-Up Agreement pursuant to which it agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to sell, transfer or otherwise convey any of the 15,543,413 shares of the Company’s common stock issued to it as part of the transaction (the “Securities Consideration”) for one year following the Closing Date. The Lock-up Agreement provides that SOFAR may sell, transfer or convey: (i) no more than 50% of the Securities Consideration during the period commencing on the one-year anniversary of the Closing Date and ending on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Closing Date; and (ii) no more than 75% of the Securities Consideration during the period commencing on the eighteen-month anniversary of the Closing Date and ending on the two-year anniversary of the Closing Date. The restrictions on transfer contained in the Lock-up Agreement cease to apply to the Securities Consideration following the second anniversary of the Closing Date, or earlier upon certain other conditions. Once such lock-up restrictions end, it is possible that SOFAR will sell shares of our common stock in underwritten or private placement transactions. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 