Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, which could materially adversely affect our proposed operations, our business prospects, and financial condition, and the value of an investment in our business. There may be other factors that are not mentioned here or of which we are not presently aware that could also affect our business operations and prospects. Risks Related to Our Business Operations We have incurred operating losses since inception and we do not know if we will attain profitability Our net losses for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $10,103,872, $5,144,499, and $3,780,895, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $64,011,947, $52,769,891, and $47,625,392 as of December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Since inception, we have primarily financed our operations through the sale of equity securities, licensing fees, royalties on product sales by our licensees, and borrowings. Also, we have recently been awarded a research grant from the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine for a particular project. Ultimately, our ability to generate sufficient operating revenue to earn a profit depends upon our success in developing and marketing or licensing our products and technology. We will spend a substantial amount of our capital on research and development but we might not succeed in developing products and technologies that are useful in medicine ● We are attempting to develop new medical products and technologies. ● Many of our experimental products and technologies have not been applied in human medicine and have only been used in laboratory studies in vitro or in animals. These new products and technologies might not prove to be safe and efficacious in the human medical applications for which they were developed. ● The experimentation we are doing is costly, time consuming, and uncertain as to its results. We incurred research and development expenses amounting to $7,892,024, $2,968,987, and $1,725,187 during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. ● If we are successful in developing a new technology or product, refinement of the new technology or product and definition of the practical applications and limitations of the technology or product may take years and require the expenditure of large sums of money. 49 Table of Contents ● Future clinical trials of new therapeutic products will be very expensive and will take years to complete. We may not have the financial resources to fund clinical trials on our own and we may have to enter into licensing or collaborative arrangements with larger, well-capitalized pharmaceutical companies in order to bear the cost. Any such arrangements may be dilutive to our ownership or economic interest in the products we develop, and we might have to accept a royalty payment on the sale of the product rather than receiving the gross revenues from product sales. Our success depends in part on the uncertain growth of the stem cell industry, which is still in its infancy ● The success of our business of selling products for use in stem cell research depends on the growth of stem cell research, without which there may be no market or only a very small market for our products and technology. The likelihood that stem cell research will grow depends upon the successful development of stem cell products that can be used to treat disease or injuries in people or that can be used to facilitate the development of other pharmaceutical products. The growth in stem cell research also depends upon the availability of funding through private investment and government research grants. ● There can be no assurance that any safe and efficacious human medical applications will be developed using stem cells or related technology. ● Government-imposed restrictions and religious, moral, and ethical concerns with respect to use of embryos or human embryonic stem cells in research and development could have a material adverse effect on the growth of the stem cell industry, even if research proves that useful medical products can be developed using human embryonic stem cells. Sales of our products to date have not been sufficient to generate an amount of revenue sufficient to cover our operating expenses ● Hextend is presently the only plasma expander product that we have on the market, and it is being sold only in the United States and South Korea. The royalty revenues that we have received from sales of Hextend have not been sufficient to pay our operating expenses. This means that we need to successfully develop and market or license additional products and earn additional revenues in sufficient amounts to meet our operating expenses. ● We will receive additional license fees and royalties if our licensees are successful in marketing Hextend and PentaLyte in Japan, Taiwan, and China, but they have not yet obtained the regulatory approvals required to begin selling those products. ● We are also beginning to bring our first stem cell research products to the market, but there is no assurance that we will succeed in generating significant revenues from the sale of those products. 50 Table of Contents Sales of our plasma volume expander products may be adversely impacted by the availability of competing products ● Hextend and our other plasma expander products will compete with other products that are commonly used in surgery and trauma care and sell at lower prices. ● In order to compete with other products, particularly those that sell at lower prices, our products will have to provide medically significant advantages. ● Physicians and hospitals may be reluctant to try a new product due to the high degree of risk associated with the application of new technologies and products in the field of human medicine. ● Competing products are being manufactured and marketed by established pharmaceutical companies. For example, B. Braun/McGaw presently markets Hespan, an artificial plasma volume expander, and Hospira and Baxter International, Inc. manufacture and sell a generic equivalent of Hespan. ● There also is a risk that our competitors may succeed at developing safer or more effective products that could render our products and technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We might need to issue additional equity or debt securities in order to raise additional capital needed to pay our operating expenses ● We plan to continue to incur substantial research and product development expenses, largely through our subsidiaries, and we and our subsidiaries will need to raise additional capital to pay operating expenses until we are able to generate sufficient revenues from product sales, royalties, and license fees. ● It is likely that additional sales of equity or debt securities will be required to meet our short-term capital needs, unless we receive substantial revenues from the sale of our new products or we are successful at licensing or sublicensing the technology that we develop or acquire from others and we receive substantial licensing fees and royalties. ● Sales of additional equity securities by us or our subsidiaries could result in the dilution of the interests of present shareholders. The amount and pace of research and development work that we and our subsidiaries can do or sponsor, and our ability to commence and complete clinical trials required to obtain FDA and foreign regulatory approval of our pharmaceutical products, depends upon the amount of money we have ● At December 31, 2010, we had $33,324,924 of cash and cash equivalents on hand. There can be no assurance that we or our subsidiaries will be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms or at all, or that any funds raised will be sufficient to permit us or our subsidiaries to develop and market our products and technology. Unless we and our subsidiaries are able to generate sufficient revenue or raise additional funds when needed, it is likely that we will be unable to continue our planned activities, even if we make progress in our research and development projects. 51 Table of Contents ● We have already curtailed the pace and scope of our plasma volume expander development efforts due to the limited amount of funds available, and we may have to postpone other laboratory research and development work unless our cash resources increase through a growth in revenues or additional equity investment or borrowing. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose the services of the key personnel upon whom we depend Our stem cell research program is directed primarily by our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Michael West. The loss of Dr. West’s services could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to Our Industry We will face certain risks arising from regulatory, legal, and economic factors that affect our business and the business of other pharmaceutical development companies. Because we are a small company with limited revenues and limited capital resources, we may be less able to bear the financial impact of these risks than is the case with larger companies possessing substantial income and available capital. If we do not receive FDA and other regulatory approvals we will not be permitted to sell our pharmaceutical products The pharmaceutical products that we and our subsidiaries develop cannot be sold until the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities approve the products for medical use. The need to obtain regulatory approval to market a new product means that: ● We will have to conduct expensive and time-consuming clinical trials of new products. The full cost of conducting and completing clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA approval of a new product cannot be presently determined, but could exceed our current financial resources. ● We will incur the expense and delay inherent in seeking FDA and foreign regulatory approval of new products, even if the results of clinical trials are favorable. For example, 12 months elapsed between the date we filed our application to market Hextend in the United States and the date on which our application was approved. Approximately 36 months elapsed between the date we filed our application for approval to market Hextend in Canada, and the date on which our application was approved, even though we did not have to conduct any additional clinical trials. ● Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies is susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory agency approvals. Delays in the regulatory approval process or rejections of NDAs may be encountered as a result of changes in regulatory agency policy. 52 Table of Contents ● Because the therapeutic products we are developing with hES and iPS technology involve the application of new technologies and approaches to medicine, the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies may subject those products to additional or more stringent review than drugs or biologicals derived from other technologies. ● A product that is approved may be subject to restrictions on use. ● The FDA can recall or withdraw approval of a product if problems arise. ● We will face similar regulatory issues in foreign countries. Government-imposed restrictions and religious, moral, and ethical concerns about the use of hES cells could prevent us from developing and successfully marketing stem cell products ● Government-imposed restrictions with respect to the use of embryos or human embryonic stem cells in research and development could limit our ability to conduct research and develop new products. ● Government-imposed restrictions on the use of embryos or hES cells in the United States and abroad could generally constrain stem cell research, thereby limiting the market and demand for our products. During March 2009, President Obama lifted certain restrictions on federal funding of research involving the use of hES cells, and in accordance with President Obama’s Executive Order, the NIH has adopted new guidelines for determining the eligibility of hES cell lines for use in federally funded research. The central focus of the proposed guidelines is to assure that hES cells used in federally funded research were derived from human embryos that were created for reproductive purposes, were no longer needed for this purpose, and were voluntarily donated for research purposes with the informed written consent of the donors. The hES cells that were derived from embryos created for research purposes rather than re productive purposes, and other hES cells that were not derived in compliance with the guidelines, are not eligible for use in federally funded research. A lawsuit, Sherley v. Sebelius, is now pending, challenging the legality of the new NIH guidelines. In that litigation, a United States District Court issued a temporary injunction against the implementation of the new NIH guidelines, but the District Court’s ruling has been stayed during the pendency of an appeal. The ultimate resolution of that lawsuit could determine whether the federal government may fund research using hES cells, unless new legislation is passed expressly permitting or prohibiting such funding. ● California law requires that stem cell research be conducted under the oversight of a SCRO committee. Many kinds of stem cell research, including the derivation of new hES cell lines, may only be conducted in California with the prior written approval of the SCRO. A SCRO could prohibit or impose restrictions on the research that we plan to do. 53 Table of Contents ● The use of hES cells gives rise to religious, moral, and ethical issues regarding the appropriate means of obtaining the cells and the appropriate use and disposal of the cells. These considerations could lead to more restrictive government regulations or could generally constrain stem cell research, thereby limiting the market and demand for our products. If we are unable to obtain and enforce patents and to protect our trade secrets, others could use our technology to compete with us, which could limit opportunities for us to generate revenues by licensing our technology and selling products ● Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and maintain trade secrets in the United States and in other countries. If we are unsuccessful at obtaining and enforcing patents, our competitors could use our technology and create products that compete with our products, without paying license fees or royalties to us. ● The preparation, filing, and prosecution of patent applications can be costly and time consuming. Our limited financial resources may not permit us to pursue patent protection of all of our technology and products throughout the world. ● Even if we are able to obtain issued patents covering our technology or products, we may have to incur substantial legal fees and other expenses to enforce our patent rights in order to protect our technology and products from infringing uses. We may not have the financial resources to finance the litigation required to preserve our patent and trade secret rights. There is no certainty that our pending or future patent applications will result in the issuance of patents ● We have filed patent applications for technology that we have developed, and we have obtained licenses for a number of patent applications covering technology developed by others, that we believe will be useful in producing new products, and which we believe may be of commercial interest to other companies that may be willing to sublicense the technology for fees or royalty payments. In the future, we may also file additional new patent applications seeking patent protection for new technology or products that we develop ourselves or jointly with others. However, there is no assurance that any of our licensed patent applications, or any patent applications that we have filed or that we may file in the future covering our own technology, either in the United States or abroad, will result in the issuance of patents. ● In Europe, the European Patent Convention prohibits the granting of European patents for inventions that concern “uses of human embryos for industrial or commercial purposes.” The European Patent Office is presently interpreting this prohibition broadly, and is applying it to reject patent claims that pertain to human embryonic stem cells. However, this broad interpretation is being challenged through the European Patent Office appeals system. As a result, we do not yet know whether or to what extent we will be able to obtain patent protection for our human embryonic stem cell technologies in Europe. 54 Table of Contents The process of applying for and obtaining patents can be expensive and slow ● The preparation and filing of patent applications, and the maintenance of patents that are issued, may require substantial time and money. ● A patent interference proceeding may be instituted with the U.S. PTO when more than one person files a patent application covering the same technology, or if someone wishes to challenge the validity of an issued patent. At the completion of the interference proceeding, the PTO will determine which competing applicant is entitled to the patent, or whether an issued patent is valid. Patent interference proceedings are complex, highly contested legal proceedings, and the PTO’s decision is subject to appeal. This means that if an interference proceeding arises with respect to any of our patent applications, we may experience significant expenses and delay in obtaining a patent, and if the outcome of the proceeding is unfavorable to us, the patent could be issued to a competitor rather than to us. ● Oppositions to the issuance of patents may be filed under European patent law and the patent laws of certain other countries. As with the U.S. PTO interference proceedings, these foreign proceedings can be very expensive to contest and can result in significant delays in obtaining a patent or can result in a denial of a patent application. Our patents may not protect our products from competition We or our subsidiaries have patents in the United States, Canada, the European Union countries, Australia, Israel, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, and Singapore, and have filed patent applications in other foreign countries for our plasma volume expander products. ● We might not be able to obtain any additional patents, and any patents that we do obtain might not be comprehensive enough to provide us with meaningful patent protection. ● There will always be a risk that our competitors might be able to successfully challenge the validity or enforceability of any patent issued to us. ● In addition to interference proceedings, the U.S. PTO can re-examine issued patents at the request of a third party seeking to have the patent invalidated. This means that patents owned or licensed by us may be subject to re-examination and may be lost if the outcome of the re-examination is unfavorable to us. We may be subject to patent infringement claims that could be costly to defend, which may limit our ability to use disputed technologies, and which could prevent us from pursuing research and development or commercialization of some of our products The success of our business depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing patents and other proprietary rights of others. If the technology that we use infringes a patent held by others, we could be sued for monetary damages by the patent holder or its licensee, or we could be prevented from continuing research, development, and commercialization of products that rely on that technology, unless we are able to obtain a license to use the patent. The cost and availability of a license to a patent cannot be predicted, and the likelihood of obtaining a license at an acceptable cost would be lower if the patent holder or any of its licensees is using the patent to develop or market a product with which our product would compete. If we could not obtain a necessary license, we would need to develop or obtain rights to alter native technologies, which could prove costly and could cause delays in product development, or we could be forced to discontinue the development or marketing of any products that were developed using the technology covered by the patent. 55 Table of Contents If we fail to meet our obligations under license agreements, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends Our business depends on several critical technologies that are based in part on technology licensed from third parties. Those third-party license agreements impose obligations on us, including payment obligations and obligations to pursue development of commercial products under the licensed patents or technology. If a licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under a license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products, and our ability to raise any capital that we might then need, could be significantly and negatively affected. If our license rights were re stricted or ultimately lost, we would not be able to continue to use the licensed technology in our business. The price and sale of our products may be limited by health insurance coverage and government regulation Success in selling our pharmaceutical products may depend in part on the extent to which health insurance companies, HMOs, and government health administration authorities such as Medicare and Medicaid will pay for the cost of the products and related treatment. Presently, most health insurance plans and HMOs will pay for Hextend when it is used in a surgical procedure that is covered by the plan. However, until we actually introduce a new product into the medical marketplace, we will not know with certainty whether adequate health insurance, HMO, and government coverage will be available to permit the product to be sold at a price high enough for us to generate a profit. In some foreign countries, pricing or profitability of health care products is subject to government control, which may result in low prices for our products. In the Un ited States, there have been a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government controls, and new proposals are likely to be made in the future. Risks Pertaining to Our Common Shares Ownership of our common shares will entail certain risks associated with the volatility of prices for our shares and the fact that we do not pay dividends. 56 Table of Contents Because we are engaged in the development of pharmaceutical and stem cell research products, the price of our stock may rise and fall rapidly ● The market price of our shares, like that of the shares of many biotechnology companies, has been highly volatile. ● The price of our shares may rise rapidly in response to certain events, such as the commencement of clinical trials of an experimental new drug, even though the outcome of those trials and the likelihood of ultimate FDA approval remain uncertain. ● Similarly, prices of our shares may fall rapidly in response to certain events such as unfavorable results of clinical trials or a delay or failure to obtain FDA approval. ● The failure of our earnings to meet analysts’ expectations could result in a significant rapid decline in the market price of our common shares. Current economic and stock market conditions may adversely affect the price of our common shares The stock market has been experiencing extreme price and volume fluctuations which have affected the market price of the equity securities without regard to the operating performance of the issuing companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic and political conditions, may adversely affect the market price of the common shares. Because we do not pay dividends, our stock may not be a suitable investment for anyone who needs to earn dividend income We do not pay cash dividends on our common shares. For the foreseeable future, we anticipate that any earnings generated in our business will be used to finance the growth of our business and will not be paid out as dividends to our shareholders. This means that our stock may not be a suitable investment for anyone who needs to earn income from their investments. Securities analysts may not initiate coverage or continue to cover our common shares, and this may have a negative impact on the market price of our shares The trading market for our common shares will depend, in part, on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about our business and our common shares. We do not have any control over these analysts. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will cover our common shares. If securities analysts do not cover our common shares, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of those shares. If securities analysts do cover our shares, they could issue reports or recommendations that are unfavorable to the price of our shares, and they could downgrade a previously favorable report or recommendation, and in either case our share price could decline as a result of the report. If one or more of these analysts does not initiate coverage, ceases to cover our shares or fails to publish regular reports on our business, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. 57 Table of Contents You may experience dilution of your ownership interests because of the future issuance of additional shares of common and preferred shares by us and our subsidiaries In the future, we may issue our authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of the ownership interests of our present shareholders. We are currently authorized to issue an aggregate of 76,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of 75,000,000 common shares and 1,000,000 “blank check” preferred shares. As of March 1, 2011, there were 47,357,360 common shares outstanding; 3,320,590 common shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options under our employee stock option plans; and 649,000 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of common share purchase warrants. No preferred shares are presently outstanding. The operation of some of our subsidiaries has been financed in part through the sale of capital stock in those subsidiaries to private investors. Sales of additional subsidiary shares could reduce our ownership interest in the subsidiaries, and correspondingly dilute our shareholder’s ownership interests in our consolidated enterprise. Our subsidiaries also have their own stock option plans and the exercise of subsidiary stock options or the sale of restricted stock under those plans would also reduce our ownership interest in the subsidiaries, with a resulting dilutive effect on the ownership interest of our shareholders in our consolidated enterprise. We and our subsidiaries may issue additional common shares or other securities that are convertible into or exercisable for common shares in order to raise additional capital, or in connection with hiring or retaining employees or consultants, or in connection with future acquisitions of licenses to technology or rights to acquire products in connection with future business acquisitions, or for other business purposes. The future issuance of any such additional common shares or other securities may create downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. We may also issue preferred shares having rights, preferences, and privileges senior to the rights of our common shares with respect to dividends, rights to share in distributions of our assets if we liquidate our company, or voting rights. Any preferred shares may also be convertible into common shares on terms that would be dilutive to holders of common shares. Our subsidiaries may also issue their own preferred shares with a similar dilutive impact on our ownership of the subsidiaries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 