Item 1A. Risk Factors Some of the factors that could materially affect our operations and prospects are discussed below. There may be other factors that are not mentioned here or of which we are not presently aware that could also affect our operations. We Have Incurred Operating Losses Since Inception and We May Not Be Able to Raise the Funds Needed to Cover Our Operating Expenses and Continue Our Planned Operations Our net losses for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, and 2005 were $1,742,074, $3,085,324, and $2,074,251, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, we had $1,833,774 of cash and cash equivalents on hand. At our projected rate of spending, which may involve spending cuts, our cash on hand, anticipated royalties from the sale of Hextend, licensing fees, and our available revolving line of credit will allow us to operate through September 30, 2007. In the past, we have financed our cash flow deficits through the sale of equity securities. However, there is no assurance that we will be to raise the additional capital that we need, and any sales of equity securities could result in the dilution of the interests of present shareholders. We May Have to Curtail Our Research and Product Development Activities Unless we are able to generate sufficient revenue or raise additional funds when needed, it is likely that we will be unable to continue our planned activities, even if we are making progress with our research and development projects. The amount and pace of research and development work that we can do or sponsor, and our ability to commence and complete clinical trials required to obtain FDA and foreign regulatory approval of our products, depends upon the amount of money we have. We plan to spend at least an additional $370,000 on clinical trials of PentaLyte. The costs of clinical trials and future research work are not presently determinable due to many factors, including the inherent uncertainty of those costs and the uncertainty as to the timing, source, and amount of capital that will become available for those projects. We have already curtailed the pace of our product development efforts due to the limited amount of funds available, and we may have to postpone further laboratory and clinical studies, unless our cash resources increase through a growth in revenues or additional equity investment or borrowing. 20 Table of Contents The Growth Of Our Revenues Depends In Part On Our Ability To Enter Into Additional Licensing Arrangements We plan to enter into additional arrangements with pharmaceutical companies for the production and marketing of our products. We have entered into license agreements granting pharmaceutical companies the right to market Hextend in the United States, Canada, Latin America, Australia, South Korea, Japan, China, and Taiwan. Generally, the licensees’ obligation to pay royalties on sale of our products will terminate as our patents expire and competing generic equivalents are approved for use. Although a number of other pharmaceutical companies have expressed their interest in obtaining licenses to manufacture and market our products in other countries, we might not be successful in negotiating other licensing arrangements. If we are unable to license our products in other markets our future revenues will be adversely affected. We May Not Succeed In Marketing Our Products Due to the Availability of Competing Products Our ability to generate operating revenue depends upon our success in developing and marketing our products. We may not succeed in marketing our products and we may not receive sufficient revenues from product sales to meet our operating expenses or to earn a profit. In this regard, sales of Hextend to date have not been sufficient to generate an amount of royalties or licensing fees sufficient to cover our operating expenses. Factors that affect the marketing of our products include the following: Ÿ Hextend and our other plasma expander products will compete with other products that are commonly used in surgery and trauma care and sell at lower prices. Ÿ In order to compete with other products, particularly those that sell at lower prices, BioTime products will have to provide medically significant advantages. Ÿ Physicians and hospitals may be reluctant to try a new product due to the high degree of risk associated with the application of new technologies and products in the field of human medicine. Ÿ Competing products are being manufactured and marketed by established pharmaceutical companies. For example, B. Braun/McGaw presently markets Hespan, an artificial plasma volume expander, and Hospira and Baxter International, Inc. manufacture and sell a generic equivalent of Hespan. Ÿ There also is a risk that our competitors may succeed in developing safer or more effective products that could render our products and technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We Will Spend A Substantial Amount Of Our Capital On Research And Development But We Might Not Succeed In Developing Products And Technologies That Are Useful In Medicine. Ÿ We are attempting to develop new medical products and technologies. Ÿ Many of our experimental products and technologies have not been applied in human medicine and have only been used in laboratory studies on animals. These new products and 21 Table of Contents technologies might not prove to be safe and efficacious in the human medical applications for which they were developed. Ÿ The experimentation we are doing is costly, time consuming and uncertain as to its results. We incurred research and development expenses amounting to $1,525,686 during 2005. Ÿ If we are successful in developing a new technology or product, refinement of the new technology or product and definition of the practical applications and limitations of the technology or product may take years and require the expenditure of large sums of money. For example, we spent approximately $5,000,000 on research and development of Hextend before commencing clinical trials on humans during October 1996. The cost of completing the Hextend clinical trials and preparing our FDA application was approximately $3,000,000. These costs exclude corporate overhead included in general and administrative costs in our financial statements. Ÿ Future clinical trials of new products such as PentaLyte may take longer and may be more costly than our Hextend clinical trials. The FDA permitted us to proceed directly into a Phase III clinical trial of Hextend involving only 120 patients because the active ingredients in Hextend had already been approved for use by the FDA in other products. Because PentaLyte contains a starch that has not been approved by the FDA for use in a plasma volume expander, we have had to complete a Phase I clinical trial of PentaLyte, and we will have to complete a Phase II clinical trial in addition to a Phase III trial, that will involve more patients than our Hextend trials. We do not yet know the scope or cost of the clinical trials that the FDA will require for PentaLyte or the other products we are developing. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected If We Lose the Services Of The Key Personnel Upon Whom We Depend During 2003, we lost our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Paul Segall, who passed away in June. Following the passing of Dr. Segall, we formed the Office of the President, a three-person executive “office” comprised of the three remaining founders: Dr. Hal Sternberg, Dr. Harold Waitz, and Judith Segall. The Office of the President is charged with assuming those executive duties previously attended to by Dr. Segall. We believe that the Office of the President has provided a smooth management transition without entailing additional operating costs. So long as the Office of the President meets our needs, we will defer appointing a new chief executive officer until our cash flow improves and we have sufficient capital to finance the additional executive compensation expenses. It is not possible to determine what impact, if any, this will have on our operations. Scientific concerns, such as product development and laboratory research, will continue to be addressed primarily by Dr. Sternberg, the Vice-President of Research, who worked very closely with Dr. Segall for many years on all matters of scientific importance and strategy. The loss of the services of any of our other executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not presently have long-term employment agreements with any of our executive officers because our present financial situation precludes us from making long-term compensation commitments in amounts commensurate with prevailing salaries of executive officers of similar 22 Table of Contents companies in the San Francisco Bay Area. This may also limit our ability to engage a new Chief Executive Officer. Risks Related to Our Industry We will face certain risks arising from regulatory, legal, and economic factors that affect our business and the business of other pharmaceutical development companies. Because we are a small company with limited revenues and limited capital resources, we may be less able to bear the financial impact of these risks than larger companies that have substantial income and available capital. If We Do Not Receive FDA And Other Regulatory Approvals We Will Not Be Permitted To Sell Our Products The products that we develop cannot be sold until the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities approve the products for medical use. Hextend has been approved for use in the United States, Canada and Korea only. We are conducting a Phase II clinical trial of PentaLyte to demonstrate that PentaLyte can be used safely and effectively as a plasma volume expander in surgery. The need to obtain regulatory approval to market a new product means that: Ÿ We will have to conduct expensive and time consuming clinical trials of new products. We plan to spend at least an additional $370,000 for Phase II clinical trials of PentaLyte. However, the full cost of completing a Phase II clinical trial and future Phase III clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA approval of PentaLyte cannot be presently determined and may exceed our financial resources. Ÿ We will incur the expense and delay inherent in seeking FDA and foreign regulatory approval of new products. For example, 12 months elapsed between the date we filed our application to market Hextend in the United States and the date on which our application was approved. Approximately 36 months elapsed between the date we filed our application for approval to market Hextend in Canada, and the date on which our application was approved, even though we did not have to conduct any additional clinical trials. Ÿ A product that is approved may be subject to restrictions on use. Ÿ The FDA can recall or withdraw approval of a product if problems arise. Ÿ We will face similar regulatory issues in foreign countries. Our Patents May Not Protect Our Products From Competition We have patents in the United States, Canada, several countries of the European Union, Australia, Israel, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, Japan, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and 23 Table of Contents Singapore, and have filed patent applications in other foreign countries for certain products, including Hextend, HetaCool, and PentaLyte. We might not be able to obtain any additional patents, and any patents that we do obtain might not be comprehensive enough to provide us with meaningful patent protection. Also, there will always be a risk that our competitors might be able to successfully challenge the validity or enforceability of any patent issued to us. The costs required to uphold the validity and prevent infringement of any patent issued to us could be substantial, and we might not have the resources available to defend our patent rights. The Price and Sale Of Our Products May Be Limited By Health Insurance Coverage And Government Regulation Success in selling our products may depend in part on the extent to which health insurance companies, HMOs, and government health administration authorities such as Medicare and Medicaid will pay for the cost of the products and related treatment. Presently, most health insurance plans and HMOs will pay for Hextend when it is used in a surgical procedure that is covered by the plan. However, until we actually introduce a new product into the medical market place we will not know with certainty whether adequate health insurance, HMO, and government coverage will be available to permit the product to be sold at a price high enough for us to generate a profit. In some foreign countries, pricing or profitability of health care products is subject to government control which may result in low prices for our products. In the United States, there have been a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government controls, and new proposals are likely to be made in the future. Risks Pertaining to Our Common Shares Before purchasing BioTime common shares or warrants, investors should consider the price volatility of our shares and warrants and the fact that we do not pay dividends. Because We Are a Drug Development Company, The Price Of Our Stock May Rise And Fall Rapidly The market price of BioTime shares and warrants, like that of the shares of many biotechnology companies, has been highly volatile. The price of BioTime shares and warrants may rise rapidly in response to certain events, such as the commencement of clinical trials of an experimental new drug, even though the outcome of those trials and the likelihood of ultimate FDA approval remain uncertain. Similarly, prices of BioTime shares and warrants may fall rapidly in response to certain events such as unfavorable results of clinical trials or a delay or failure to obtain FDA approval. The failure of our earnings to meet analysts’ expectations could result in a significant rapid decline in the market price of our common shares and warrants. In addition, the stock market has experienced and continues to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations which have affected the market price of the equity securities of many biotechnology companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic and political conditions, may adversely affect the market price of the common shares and warrants. 24 Table of Contents BioTime Common Shares and Warrants Are Subject to the So-Called Penny Stock Rules That Impose Restrictive Sales Practice Requirements BioTime common shares and warrants are subject to the so-called penny stock rules that impose restrictive sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. An accredited investor generally is a person who has a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or individual annual income exceeding $200,000, or joint annual income with a spouse exceeding $300,000. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. This means that delisting could affect the ability of shareholders to sell their common shares and warrants in the secondary market. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) has adopted regulations that define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If a transaction involving a penny stock is not exempt from the Commission’s rule, a broker-dealer must deliver a disclosure schedule relating to the penny stock market to the investor prior to a transaction. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the penny stock, and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the customer’s account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because We Do Not Pay Dividends, Our Stock May Not Be A Suitable Investment For Anyone Who Needs To Earn Dividend Income We do not pay cash dividends on our common shares. For the foreseeable future we anticipate that any earnings generated in our business will be used to finance our operations and will not be paid out as dividends to our shareholders. This means that our stock may not be a suitable investment for anyone who needs to earn income from their investments. BioTime Warrants Cannot Be Exercised Unless a Registration Statement is in Effect Under Federal and State Securities Laws. A registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, must be in effect in order for warrant holders to exercise their BioTime warrants. This means that we will have to periodically update our registration statement and prospectus by filing post-effective amendments and by filing our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K as required under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We intend to use our best efforts to keep our registration statement effective. However, if we are unable to do so for any reason, warrant holders would not be able to exercise their warrants, even if the market price of our common shares was then greater than the exercise price. Most states will also require us to obtain a permit, issued through an application for registration or qualification, and to maintain that permit in effect in order for warrant holders in the state to exercise their warrants. 25 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 