Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our company involves a significant level of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the risks described below occurs, or if other risks not identified below occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Business We have a history of operating losses, and we do not expect to become profitable in the near future. We are a medical device company with a limited operating history. We are not profitable and have incurred losses since our inception. We do not anticipate that we will generate revenue from the sale of products until at least the second half of 2011. Three of our products may currently be marketed in the United States without further FDA clearance or approval. We continue to incur research and development and general and administrative expenses related to our operations. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $5.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $17.0 million as of December 31, 2010. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and these losses will likely increase as we prepare for clinical trials of our product candidates and begin to commercialize our cleared or approved products. If our product candidates fail in clinical trials or do not gain regulatory clearance or approval, or if our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance, we may never become profitable. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain profitability in subsequent periods. We will require substantial additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. We intend to advance multiple additional product candidates through clinical and pre-clinical development. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to engage in our clinical and pre-clinical development and commercialization activities. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • our need to expand our research and development activities; • the rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials; • the costs associated with establishing a sales force and commercialization capabilities; • the costs of acquiring, licensing or investing in businesses, products, product candidates and technologies; • the costs and timing of seeking and obtaining FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory clearances and approvals; 20 Table of Contents • the economic and other terms and timing of our existing licensing arrangement and any collaboration, licensing or other arrangements into which we may enter in the future; • our need and ability to hire additional management, scientific, medical and sales and marketing personnel; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • our need to implement additional internal systems and infrastructure, including financial and reporting systems; and • our ability to maintain, expand and defend the scope of our intellectual property portfolio. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue to finance our cash requirements, which we may never do, we expect to finance future cash needs primarily through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or strategic collaborations. We do not know whether additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Healthcare policy changes, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare costs have risen significantly over the past decade, and there have been and continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down. As noted above, Congress recently passed health care reform legislation that President Obama signed into law in March 2010. While the most immediate impact on device manufacturers is the imposition of a 2.3 percent tax beginning in 2013, the other effects of the law on our business and sector remain uncertain. Over the next few years, the administration can be expected to issue rules implementing the new reforms and those regulations could have adverse consequences for device manufacturers. In addition to the new legislation discussed above, various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what additional healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect any such future legislation or regulation will have on us. In addition to the taxes imposed by the new federal legislation, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may lower reimbursements for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued worldwide economic and market instability may materially and adversely affect the demand for our products and, if and when approved, our product candidates, as well as our ability to obtain credit or secure funds through sales of our stock, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and ability to fund our operations. Worldwide economic conditions may reduce the demand for new and innovative medical devices, resulting in delayed market acceptance of our products and, if and when approved, our product candidates. Such a delay could have a material adverse impact on our business, expected cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we have funded our operations to date primarily through private sales of our common and preferred stock and through borrowings under credit facilities available to us from stockholders and other individuals, including our existing $4.0 million line of credit which will mature in June 2012. Any economic turmoil and instability in the world’s equity and credit markets may materially adversely affect our ability to sell additional shares of our stock and/or borrow cash under existing or new credit facilities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional working capital on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to raise additional working capital on acceptable terms would materially and adversely affect our liquidity and could materially adversely affect our ability to continue our operations. 21 Table of Contents Some of our technologies are in an early stage of development and are unproven. We are engaged in the research and development of intraluminal medical devices that manipulate tissues for the treatment of intraperitoneal abnormalities, including obesity, GERD, hernia formation, Barrett’s Esophagus, esophageal obstructions and upper gastrointestinal bleeding. The effectiveness of our technologies is not well-known in, or accepted generally by, the clinical medical community. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully employ our technologies as surgical, therapeutic or diagnostic solutions for any intraperitoneal abnormalities. Our failure to establish the efficacy and safety of our technologies would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our product research and development activities may not result in commercially viable products. Some of our product candidates are still in early stages of development and are prone to the risks of failure inherent in medical device product development. We will likely be required to undertake significant clinical trials to demonstrate to the FDA that our licensed devices are safe and effective for their intended uses or that they are substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to an existing, lawfully marketed non-PMA device. We may also be required to undertake clinical trials by non-U.S. regulatory agencies. Clinical trials are expensive and uncertain processes that may take years to complete. Failure can occur at any point in the process, and early positive results do not ensure that the entire clinical trial will be successful. Product candidates in clinical trials may fail to show desired efficacy and safety traits despite early promising results. A number of companies in the medical device industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results at earlier points. The results of previous clinical experience with our devices and devices similar to those that we are developing may not be indicative of future results, and our current and planned clinical trials may not satisfy the requirements of the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities. Positive results from limited in vivo and ex vivo animal trials we have conducted or early clinical experience with the test articles or with similar devices should not be relied upon as evidence that later-stage or large-scale clinical trials will succeed. We will be required to demonstrate with substantial evidence through well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates either (i) are safe and effective for their intended uses or (ii) are substantially equivalent in terms of safety and effectiveness to devices that are already marketed under Section 510(k). Further, our product candidates may not be cleared or approved, as the case may be, even if the clinical data are satisfactory and support, in our view, clearance or approval. The FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may disagree with our trial design and our interpretation of the clinical data. In addition, any of these regulatory authorities may change requirements for the clearance or approval of a product candidate even after reviewing and providing comment on a protocol for a pivotal clinical trial that has the potential to result in FDA approval. In addition, any of these regulatory authorities may also clear or approve a product candidate for fewer or more limited uses than we request or may grant clearance or approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials. In addition, the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve or clear the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of our product candidates. We are highly dependent on the success of our products and product candidates, and we cannot give any assurance that our product candidates will receive regulatory clearance or that any of our products or future products will be successfully commercialized. We are highly dependent on the success of our products and product candidates, especially the Gastroplasty Device and the AMID Stapler®. We cannot give any assurance that the FDA will permit us to clinically test or grant regulatory clearance for the Gastroplasty Device, nor can we give any assurance that these products will be successfully commercialized, for a number of reasons, including without limitation the potential introduction by our competitors of more clinically-effective or cost-effective alternatives or failure in our sales and marketing efforts, or our failure to obtain positive coverage determinations or reimbursement. Any failure to obtain clearance or approval of our products or to successfully commercialize them would have a material and adverse effect on our business. 22 Table of Contents If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our products and future products, our commercial opportunities will be negatively impacted. The life sciences industry is highly competitive, and we face significant competition from many medical device companies that are researching and marketing products designed to address the intraperitoneal abnormalities we are endeavoring to address. We are currently developing and commercializing medical devices that will compete with other medical devices that currently exist or are being developed. Products we may develop in the future are also likely to face competition from other medical devices and therapies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and product development resources than we do. Large medical device companies, in particular, have extensive experience in clinical testing and in obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals for medical devices. These companies also have significantly greater research and marketing capabilities than we do. As indicated, there are also other methods to treat obesity, such as diet, exercise and medicine. Other competitors have developed products such as medical implants that occupy volume in the stomach to promote the feeling of satiety (Helioscopie) or gastric sleeves to reduce food intake. Some of the medical device companies we expect to compete with include USGI Medical, Satiety, EndoGastric Solutions, Inc., Medigus, Ltd., Bard, LLC, Olympus Medical Equipment Services America, Inc., BARRX Medical, Inc., Covidien, Ethicon, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, ConMed Corporation, Cook Medical Supply, Inc., Miller Medical Specialties, U.S. Endoscopy and a number of bite block manufacturers. In addition, many other universities and private and public research institutions are or may become active in research involving surgical devices for gastrointestinal abnormalities and minimally invasive surgery. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: • the results of our clinical trials; • our ability to recruit and enroll patients for our clinical trials; • the efficacy, safety and reliability of our product candidates; • the speed at which we develop our product candidates; • our ability to commercialize and market any of our product candidates that may receive regulatory clearance or approval; • our ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials; • the timing and scope of regulatory clearances or approvals; • appropriate coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement under private and governmental health insurance plans, including Medicare; • our ability to protect intellectual property rights related to our products; • our ability to have our partners manufacture and sell commercial quantities of any approved products to the market; and • acceptance of future product candidates by physicians and other health care providers. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer, easier to use or less expensive than our products or future products, or that reach the market sooner than our product candidates, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the medical device industry is characterized by rapid technological change. It may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or product candidates obsolete or less competitive. 23 Table of Contents Our product development activities could be delayed or stopped. We do not know whether other planned clinical trials will be completed on schedule, or at all, and we cannot guarantee that our planned clinical trials will begin on time or at all. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients that meet the protocol’s inclusion criteria and do not meet any of the exclusion criteria; • limited number of, and competition for, suitable sites to conduct our clinical trials, and delay or failure to obtain FDA approval, if necessary, to commence a clinical trial; • delay or failure to obtain sufficient supplies of the product candidate for our clinical trials; • requirements to provide the medical device required in our clinical trial at cost, which may require significant expenditures that we are unable or unwilling to make; • delay or failure to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites or investigators; and • delay or failure to obtain IRB approval or renewal to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective or accruing site, respectively. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; • failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; • unforeseen safety issues; • lack of efficacy evidenced during clinical trials; • termination of our clinical trials by one or more clinical trial sites; • inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; and • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment. Our clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time by us, the FDA, other regulatory authorities or the IRB for any given site. Any failure or significant delay in completing clinical trials for our product candidates could materially harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our product candidates. The regulatory approval and clearance processes are expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent us or our collaboration partners from obtaining approvals or clearances, as the case may be, for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. The research, testing, manufacturing, labeling, approval, clearance, selling, marketing and distribution of medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, which regulations differ from country to country. We are not permitted to market our product candidates in the United States until we receive a clearance letter under the 510(k) process or approval of a PMA from the FDA, depending on the nature of the device. We are currently in discussions with the FDA regarding the appropriate regulatory approval for our Gastroplasty Device for the treatment of GERD and for the treatment of obesity. Obtaining approval of any PMA can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. While the FDA normally reviews and clears a premarket notification in 90 days, there is no guarantee that our future product candidates will qualify for this more expeditious regulatory process, which is reserved for Class I and II devices, nor is there any assurance, that even if a device is reviewed under the 510(k) premarket notification process, that the FDA will review it expeditiously or determine that the device is substantially equivalent to a lawfully marketed non-PMA device. If the FDA fails to make this finding, then we cannot market the device. In lieu of acting on a premarket notification, the FDA may seek additional information or additional data which would further delay our ability to market the product. 24 Table of Contents Regulatory approval of a PMA, PMA supplement or clearance pursuant to a 510(k) premarket notification is not guaranteed, and the approval or clearance process, as the case may be, is expensive, uncertain and may, especially in the case of the PMA application, take several years. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the medical device clearance process or approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. The number of pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for FDA clearance or approval varies depending on the medical device candidate, the disease or condition that the medical device candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular medical device candidate. The FDA can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a medical device candidate for many reasons, including: • a medical device candidate may not be deemed safe or effective, in the case of a PMA application; • a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a lawfully marketed non-PMA device in the case of a 510(k) premarket notification; • FDA officials may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA might not approve our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or • the FDA may change its clearance or approval policies or adopt new regulations. Failure to recruit and enroll patients for clinical trials may cause the development of our product candidates to be delayed. We may encounter delays if we are unable to recruit and enroll and retain enough patients to complete clinical trials. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Delays in patient enrollment are not unusual. Any such delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs, which could harm our ability to develop products. Independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations that we engage to conduct our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely. We will depend on independent clinical investigators to conduct our clinical trials. Contract research organizations may also assist us in the collection and analysis of data. These investigators and contract research organizations will not be our employees and we will not be able to control, other than by contract, the amount of resources, including time that they devote to our trials. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient resources to the clinical trials, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval or clearance and commercialization of any products that we develop. Further, the FDA requires that we comply with standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practice, for conducting, recording and reporting clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial subjects are protected. If our independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations fail to comply with good clinical practice, the results of our clinical trials could be called into question and the clinical development of our product candidates could be delayed. Failure of clinical investigators or contract research organizations to meet their obligations to us or comply with federal regulations could adversely affect the clinical development of our product candidates and harm our business. 25 Table of Contents Even if we obtain regulatory clearances or approvals for our product candidates, the terms thereof and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products and product candidates, which could materially impair our ability to generate anticipated revenues. Once regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, the cleared or approved product and its manufacturer are subject to continual review. Any cleared or approved product may only be promoted for its indicated uses. In addition, if the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities clear or approve any of our product candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We and the manufacturers of our products are also required to comply with the FDA’s QSR, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Moreover, device manufacturers are required to report adverse events by filing Medical Device Reports with the FDA, which are publicly available. Further, regulatory agencies must approve our manufacturing facilities before they can be used to manufacture our products, and these facilities are subject to ongoing regulatory inspection. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA, either before or after clearance or approval, or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: • restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; • adverse inspectional observations (Form 483), warning letters, non-warning letters incorporating inspectional observations; • civil or criminal penalties or fines; • injunctions; • product seizures, detentions or import bans; • voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances or approvals; • total or partial suspension of production; • imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and • refusal to clear or approve pending applications or premarket notifications. In addition, the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change their policies and additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory clearance or approval of our product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we would likely not be permitted to market our future product candidates and we may not achieve or sustain profitability. Even if we receive regulatory clearance or approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our products, or third-party payors, including government payors, may not provide coverage for our products or for procedures using our products, which could undermine our financial viability. Even if our product candidates obtain regulatory clearance or approval, resulting products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and/or the medical community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: • timing of market introduction of competitive products; • safety and efficacy of our product; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • strength of marketing and distribution support; • price of our future product candidates, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; and • availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payors. 26 Table of Contents If our product candidates fail to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenue or achieve or sustain profitability. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly cleared or approved medical devices is uncertain, and failure to obtain adequate coverage and adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to market any future product candidates we may develop and decrease our ability to generate revenue from any of our existing and future product candidates that may be cleared or approved. There is significant uncertainty related to the third-party coverage and reimbursement of newly cleared or approved medical devices. Normally, surgical devices are not directly covered; instead, the procedure using the device is subject to a coverage determination by the insurer. The commercial success of our existing and future product candidates in both domestic and international markets will depend in part on the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, including government payors, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, managed care organizations and other third-party payors. Government and other third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new products and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our existing and future product candidates. These payors may conclude that our product candidates are not as safe or effective as existing devices or that procedures using our devices are not as safe or effective as the existing procedures using other devices. These payors may also conclude that the overall cost of the procedure using one of our devices exceeds the overall cost of the competing procedure using another type of device, and third-party payors may not approve our product candidates for coverage and adequate reimbursement. The failure to obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement for our existing and future product candidates or health care cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our existing and future product candidates may reduce any future product revenue. If we fail to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial, development, marketing and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization efforts for our existing and future product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and pre-clinical and clinical personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management, particularly Jeffrey G. Spragens and Dr. Charles J. Filipi, could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. We employ these individuals on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our research and development activities and build a sales and marketing organization. We have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our research, development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. In addition, our advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical device and other businesses. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements in a timely fashion or at all and our business may be harmed as a result. 27 Table of Contents As we are evolving from a company primarily involved in development to a company also involved in commercialization, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. As we advance our product candidates through research and development and begin commercializing our products, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with such third parties, as well as additional collaborators and suppliers. Maintaining these relationships and managing our future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of our management. We must be able to: manage our development efforts effectively; manage our clinical trials effectively; hire, train and integrate additional management, development, administrative and sales and marketing personnel; improve our managerial, development, operational and finance systems; and expand our facilities, all of which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Furthermore, we may acquire additional businesses, products or product candidates that complement or augment our existing business. Integrating any newly acquired business or product could be expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business or product successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively and our ability to integrate any acquired businesses. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from successfully growing our company. If we fail to acquire and develop other products or product candidates at all or on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to diversify or grow our business. We intend to continue to utilize in-licensing as a source of products and product candidates for development and commercialization. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire medical device product candidates. Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable product acquisition or license is a lengthy and complex process. We compete for partnering arrangements and license agreements with other medical device companies and academic research institutions. Our competitors may have stronger relationships with third parties with whom we are interested in collaborating and/or may have more established histories of developing and commercializing products. As a result, our competitors may have a competitive advantage in entering into partnering arrangements with such third parties. In addition, even if we find promising product candidates, and generate interest in a partnering or strategic arrangement to acquire such product candidates, we may not be able to acquire rights to additional product candidates or approved products on commercially reasonable terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We expect that any product candidate to which we acquire rights will require additional development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive clinical testing and clearance or approval by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities. All product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in medical device product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be shown to be sufficiently safe and effective for approval by regulatory authorities. Even if the product candidates are cleared or approved, we cannot be sure that they would be capable of economically feasible production or commercial success. We rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our products, and we will rely on third parties to manufacture and supply our product candidates, and an inability to find additional or alternate sources for our products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our product candidates, other than a prototype lab and manufacturing facility that can be used for limited production of devices for clinical trials. We lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our products and product candidates on a commercial scale. If our manufacturing partners are unable to produce our products in the amounts that we require, we may not be able to establish a contract and obtain a sufficient alternative supply from another supplier on a timely basis and in the quantities we require. We expect to depend on third-party contract manufacturers for the foreseeable future. 28 Table of Contents Our products and product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. Any of our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities to ensure strict compliance with QSR, cGMP and other applicable government regulations and corresponding standards. If our contract manufacturers fail to achieve and maintain high manufacturing standards in compliance with QSR, we may experience manufacturing errors resulting in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or interruptions of production or failures in product testing or delivery, delay or prevention of filing or approval of marketing applications for our products, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. Any performance failure on the part of our contract manufacturers could delay clinical development or regulatory clearance or approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products and future products, depriving us of potential product revenue and resulting in additional losses. In addition, our dependence on a third party for manufacturing may adversely affect our future profit margins. Our ability to replace an existing manufacturer may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer before it can begin manufacturing our products. Such approval may require additional non-clinical testing and compliance inspections. It may be difficult or impossible for us to identify and engage a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all. We currently have a limited sales, marketing and distribution organization. If we are unable to develop our sales, marketing and distribution capability on our own or through collaborations with marketing partners, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates. We currently have minimal marketing, sales and distribution capabilities. We intend to establish our sales and marketing organization with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities to commercialize our products and product candidates, which will be expensive and time-consuming. Any failure or delay in the development of our internal sales, marketing and distribution capabilities would adversely impact the commercialization of these products. We may choose to collaborate with third parties that have direct sales forces and established distribution systems, either to augment our own sales force and distribution systems or in lieu of our own sales force and distribution systems. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenue is likely to be lower than if we directly marketed or sold our products. In addition, any revenue we receive will depend in whole or in part upon the efforts of such third parties, which may not be successful and are generally not within our control. If we are unable to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products and product candidates. If we are not successful in commercializing our existing and future products, either on our own or through collaborations with one or more third parties, our future product revenue will suffer and we may incur significant additional losses. The success of our business may be dependent on the actions of our collaborative partners. An element of our strategy may be to enter into collaborative arrangements with established multinational medical device companies which will finance or otherwise assist in the development, manufacture and marketing of products incorporating our technology. We anticipate deriving some revenues from research and development fees, license fees, milestone payments and royalties from collaborative partners. Our prospects, therefore, may depend to some extent upon our ability to attract and retain collaborative partners and to develop technologies and products that meet the requirements of prospective collaborative partners. In addition, our collaborative partners may have the right to abandon research projects and terminate applicable agreements, including funding obligations, prior to or upon the expiration of the agreed-upon research terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in establishing collaborative arrangements on acceptable terms or at all, that collaborative partners will not terminate funding before completion of projects, that our collaborative arrangements will result in successful product commercialization or that we will derive any revenues from such arrangements. To the extent that we are not able to develop and maintain collaborative arrangements, we would need substantial additional capital to undertake research, development and commercialization activities on our own. 29 Table of Contents We rely heavily on licenses from third parties, particularly our license with Creighton, and any loss of our rights under such license agreements could materially adversely affect our business prospects. Most of the patent applications in our patent portfolio are not owned by us, but are licensed from Creighton and other third parties. Presently, we rely primarily on licensed technology for our products and may license additional technology from other third parties in the future. Such license agreements give us rights for the commercial exploitation of the patents resulting from the patent applications, subject to certain provisions of the license agreements. Failure to comply with these provisions could result in the loss of our rights under these license agreements. Our inability to rely on these patent applications which are the basis of our technology would have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our patent rights are licensed to us from Creighton. If we or Creighton do not properly maintain or enforce the patent applications underlying this license, or if we lose our rights under this license, our competitive position, business prospects and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Our success will depend in part on the ability of us or Creighton to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for our licensed intellectual property and, in particular, those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. We or Creighton may not successfully prosecute the patent applications which are licensed to us. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, we or Creighton may fail to maintain these patents, may determine not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than necessary to obtain an acceptable outcome from any such litigation. Without protection for the intellectual property we have licensed, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could materially adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and results of operations. If we or our licensors are unable to obtain and enforce patent protection for our products and product candidates, our business could be materially harmed. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or license under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries, so that we can prevent others from unlawfully using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some patents required for us to commercialize our proposed products. Although numerous patent applications are in process, we presently do not hold any U.S.-issued patents and none of the technology we license has been patented in the U.S. Because certain U.S. patent applications are confidential until patents issue, such as applications filed prior to November 29, 2000, or applications filed after such date which will not be filed in foreign countries, third parties may have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of those applications, and our patent applications may not have priority over those applications. For this and other reasons, we or our third-party collaborators may be unable to secure desired patent rights, thereby losing desired exclusivity. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third party patent or otherwise circumvent the third party patent. Our strategy depends on our ability to rapidly identify and seek patent protection for our discoveries. In addition, we will rely on third-party collaborators to file patent applications relating to proprietary technology that we develop jointly during certain collaborations. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming. If our present or future collaborators fail to file and prosecute all necessary and desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, our business will be adversely affected. Despite our efforts and the efforts of our collaborators to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated, unenforceable or circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”) may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, finding of unenforceability or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, court decisions may introduce uncertainty in the enforceability or scope of patents owned by medical device companies. 30 Table of Contents Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of medical device companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards that the USPTO and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. There is also no uniform, worldwide policy regarding the subject matter and scope of claims granted or allowable in medical device patents. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The legal systems of certain countries do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents, and the laws of foreign countries may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, the enforceability or scope of our owned or licensed patents in the United States or in foreign countries cannot be predicted with certainty, and, as a result, any patents that we own or license may not provide sufficient protection against competitors. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, including Creighton. We cannot assure you that any patents that will issue, that may issue or that may be licensed to us will be enforceable or valid or will not expire prior to the commercialization of our product candidates, thus allowing others to more effectively compete with us. Therefore, any patents that we own or license may not adequately protect our product candidates or our future products. If we or our licensors are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we will seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and collaborators upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Our agreements with employees also generally provide and will generally provide that any inventions conceived by the individual in the course of rendering services to us shall be our exclusive property. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets or proprietary information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection, particularly for our trade secrets or other confidential information. To the extent that our employees, consultants or contractors use technology or know-how owned by third parties in their work for us, disputes may arise between us and those third parties as to the rights in related inventions. Adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information. The disclosure of our trade secrets would impair our competitive position and may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some jurisdictions may require us or our licensors to grant licenses to third parties. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties. In addition, most countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may be limited to monetary relief and may be unable to enjoin infringement, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving products is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries, either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our product candidates, which may limit our potential revenue opportunities. 31 Table of Contents Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Other entities may have or obtain patents or proprietary rights that could limit our ability to manufacture, use, sell, offer for sale or import products or impair our competitive position. In addition, to the extent that a third party develops new technology that covers our products, we may be required to obtain licenses to that technology, which licenses may not be available or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, we will not be able to market the affected products or conduct the desired activities, unless we challenge the validity, enforceability or infringement of the third party patent or circumvent the third party patent, which would be costly and would require significant time and attention of our management. Third parties may have or obtain valid and enforceable patents or proprietary rights that could block us from developing products using our technology. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we require may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we become involved in patent litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs and expenses, substantial liability for damages or be required to stop our product development and commercialization efforts, any of which could materially adversely affect our liquidity, business prospects and results of operations. Third parties may sue us for infringing their patent rights. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce a patent issued or licensed to us or to determine the scope and validity of proprietary rights of others. In addition, a third party may claim that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. Furthermore, in connection with our third-party license agreements, we generally have agreed to indemnify the licensor for costs incurred in connection with litigation relating to intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. If any parties successfully claim that our creation or use of proprietary technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed on such parties’ patent rights. In addition to any damages we might have to pay, a court could require us to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. Medicare legislation and future legislative or regulatory reform of the health care system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals, at both the federal and state government levels, to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably, if approved. To the extent that our products are deemed to be durable medical equipment (“DME”), they may be subject to distribution under Medicare’s Competitive Acquisition regulations, which could adversely affect the amount that we can seek from payors. Non-DME devices used in surgical procedures are normally paid directly by the hospital or health care provider and not reimbursed separately by third-party payors. As a result, these types of devices are subject to intense price competition that can place a small manufacturer at a competitive disadvantage. We are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. Any cost containment measures or other health care system reforms that are adopted could have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize our existing and future product candidates successfully. 32 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval outside the United States will prevent us from marketing our product candidates abroad. We intend to market certain of our products and product candidates in non-U.S. markets. In order to market our existing and future products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals. We have had limited interactions with non-U.S. regulatory authorities, the approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval or clearance by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one or more non-U.S. regulatory authorities does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the FDA. The non-U.S. regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval or clearance. We may not obtain non-U.S. regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for non-U.S. regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our existing and future product candidates in any market. Non-U.S. governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market certain of our existing and future products in both the U.S. and in non-U.S. jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our products. In some countries, particularly countries of the European Union, each of which has developed its own rules and regulations, pricing is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a medical device candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our existing and future product candidates to other available products. If reimbursement of our future product candidates is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Our business may become subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations. Our business is subject to risks associated with conducting business internationally, in part due to some of our suppliers being located outside the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • difficulties in compliance with non-U.S. laws and regulations; • changes in non-U.S. regulations and customs; • changes in non-U.S. currency exchange rates and currency controls; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic environment; • trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements or other restrictive actions by U.S. or non-U.S. governments; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and • difficulties associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including differing labor relations. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile, and such volatility could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease and could cause you to lose some or all of your investment in our common stock. For the two years ended December 31, 2010, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated from a high of $2.20 per share to a low of $0.45 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights and regulatory approvals; • variations in our and our competitors’ results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our common stock is covered by analysts; • developments in the medical device industry; • the results of product liability or intellectual property lawsuits; • future issuances of common stock or other securities; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and • general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. Further, the stock market in general, and the market for medical device companies in particular, has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The volatility of our common stock is further exacerbated due to its low trading volume. Continued market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock and the loss of some or all of your investment. Some or all of the “restricted” shares of our common stock issued in connection with our acquisition of SafeStitch LLC, our 2008 and 2010 private placements and the 2010 conversion of all outstanding shares of our preferred stock and shares of restricted common stock held by other of our stockholders may be offered from time to time in the open market pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or without registration pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated thereunder, and these sales may have a depressive effect on the market price of our common stock. Trading of our common stock is limited, and trading restrictions imposed on us by applicable regulations may further reduce trading in our common stock, making it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares; and future sales of common stock could reduce our stock price. Trading of our common stock is currently conducted on the OTCQB. The liquidity of our common stock is limited, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also as it may be adversely affected by delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the media’s coverage of us, if at all. Approximately 62% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock are held by officers, directors and beneficial owners of at least 10% of our outstanding shares, each of whom is subject to certain restrictions with regard to trading our common stock. These factors may result in different prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained in a more liquid market and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. In addition, without a large public float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his investment in our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock will trade in the future, if at all. 34 Table of Contents Sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares of common stock, the issuance of new shares of common stock by us or the perception that these sales may occur in the future could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and you may lose all or a portion of your investment in our common stock. Because our common stock may be a “penny stock,” it may be more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our common stock may be a “penny stock” if, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, it is not listed on a national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the Nasdaq Stock Market or any other national stock exchange or it has not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). This risk-disclosure document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and obtain the purchaser’s written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to an investor in violation of the penny stock rules, the investor may be able to cancel its purchase and get its money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for investors to sell their shares of our common stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, investors may not always be able to resell their shares of our common stock publicly at times and prices that they feel are appropriate. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that you do not consider to be in the best interests of our stockholders. Our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and affiliated entities beneficially own, in the aggregate, over 62% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, if some or all of them acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our board of directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. There have been changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our board of directors, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could be subject to liability under applicable laws or our reputation may be harmed. 35 Table of Contents 