Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS In addition to the risk factors discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements: We operate in the highly competitive automotive repair industry. The automotive repair industry in which we operate is generally highly competitive and fragmented, and the number, size and strength of our competitors varies widely from region to region. We believe that competition in the industry is based primarily on customer service, reputation, store location, name awareness and price. Our primary competitors include national and regional undercar, tire specialty and general automotive service chains, both franchised and company-operated, car dealerships, mass merchandisers operating service centers and, to a lesser extent, gas stations and independent garages. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, are more geographically diverse and have better name recognition than we do, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors reduce prices, we may be forced to reduce our prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure that we or any of our stores will be able to compete effectively. If we are 10 Table of Contents unable to compete successfully in new and existing markets, we may not achieve our projected revenue and profitability targets. We are subject to seasonality and cycles in the general economy that impact demand for our products and services. Although our business is not highly seasonal, our customers typically purchase more undercar service during the period of March through October than the period of November through February, when miles driven tend to be lower. As a result, our sales and profitability tend to be lower during the latter period. In our tire stores, the slowest months are typically January through April and September. Further, customers may defer or forego vehicle maintenance at any time during periods of inclement weather. The automotive repair industry is subject to fluctuations in the general economy. During a downturn in the economy, customers may defer or forego vehicle maintenance or repair. During periods of good economic conditions, consumers may decide to purchase new vehicles rather than having their older vehicles serviced. While the number of automobiles registered in the United States has steadily increased, this trend may not continue. In any event, should a reduction in the number of miles driven by automobile owners occur, it would likely have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and services. For example, when the retail cost of gasoline increases, the number of miles driven by automobile owners may decrease, which would result in less frequent service intervals and fewer repairs. We depend on our relationships with our vendors. We depend on close relationships with our vendors for parts and supplies and for our ability to purchase products at competitive prices and terms. Our ability to purchase at competitive prices and terms results from the volume of our purchases from these vendors. We have entered into various contracts with parts suppliers that require us to buy from them (at market prices) up to 100% of our annual purchases of specific products including brakes, exhaust, oil and ride control products. These agreements expire at various dates through January 2012. If we fail to purchase sufficient volumes from our vendors, we may obtain parts and supplies on less competitive terms. We believe that alternative sources exist for most of the products we sell or use at our stores, and we would not expect the loss of any one supplier to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our dependence on a small number of suppliers, however, subjects us to the risks of shortages and interruptions. If any of our suppliers do not perform adequately or otherwise fail to distribute parts or other supplies to our stores, our inability to replace the suppliers in a timely manner and on acceptable terms could increase our costs and could cause shortages or interruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is subject to environmental, consumer protection and other regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and other governmental regulations regarding the operation of our business. For example, we are subject to rules governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances contained in some of the products such as motor oil that we sell and use at our stores, the recycling of batteries, tires and used lubricants, and the ownership and operation of real property. These laws and regulations can impose fines and criminal sanctions for violations and require the installation of pollution control equipment or operational changes to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of exposure to, or release of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. National automotive repair chains have also been the subject of investigations and reports by consumer protection agencies and the Attorneys General of various states. Publicity in connection with these investigations could have an adverse effect on our sales and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of 11 Table of Contents operations. State and local governments have also enacted numerous consumer protection laws that we must comply with. The costs of operating our stores may increase if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages, working conditions, overtime, workers’ compensation insurance rates, unemployment tax rates or other laws and regulations. A material increase in these costs that we were unable to offset by increasing our prices or by other means could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by advances in automotive technology. The demand for our products and services could be adversely affected by continuing developments in automotive technology. Automotive manufacturers are producing cars that last longer and require service and maintenance at less frequent intervals in certain cases. Quality improvement of manufacturers’ original equipment parts has in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce, demand for our products and services, adversely affecting our sales. For example, manufacturers’ use of stainless steel exhaust components has significantly increased the life of those parts, thereby decreasing the demand for exhaust repairs and replacements. Longer and more comprehensive warranty or service programs offered by automobile manufacturers and other third parties also could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. We believe that a majority of new automobile owners have their cars serviced by a dealer during the period that the car is under warranty. In addition, advances in automotive technology continue to require us to incur additional costs to update our diagnostic capabilities and technical training programs. We may not be successful in integrating new and acquired stores. Management believes that our continued growth in sales and profit is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to open/acquire and operate new stores on a profitable basis. In order to do so, we must find reasonably priced new store locations and acquisition candidates that meet our criteria and we must integrate any new stores (opened or acquired) into our system. Our growth and profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to open or acquire new stores or if new or existing stores do not operate at a sufficient level of profitability. In addition, we generally fund our acquisitions through our existing bank credit facility. If new stores do not achieve expected levels of profitability, this may adversely impact our ability to remain in compliance with our debt covenants or to make required payments under our credit facility. Store closings result in costs. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we close certain stores, generally based on considerations of store profitability, competition, strategic factors and other considerations. Closing a store could subject us to costs including the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture and fixtures. In addition, we could remain liable for future lease obligations. We rely on an adequate supply of skilled field personnel. In order to continue to provide high quality services, we require an adequate supply of skilled field managers and technicians. Trained and experienced automotive field personnel are in high demand, and may be in short supply in some areas. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract, motivate and maintain an adequate skilled workforce necessary to operate our existing and future stores efficiently, or that labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled field personnel, thereby adversely impacting our financial performance. While the automotive repair industry generally operates with high field employee turnover, any material increases in employee turnover rates in our stores or any widespread employee dissatisfaction could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, our liquidity will suffer and we may be unable to satisfy our obligations. We currently rely on cash flow from operations and our revolving credit facility to fund our business. Amounts outstanding on the revolving credit facility are reported as debt on our balance sheet. While we believe that we have 12 Table of Contents the ability to sufficiently fund our planned operations and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, the risks to our business could result in circumstances that would materially affect our liquidity. For example, cash flows from our operations could be affected by changes in consumer spending habits, the failure to maintain favorable vendor payment terms or our inability to successfully implement sales growth initiatives, among other factors. We may be unsuccessful in securing alternative financing when needed on terms that we consider acceptable. In addition, a significant increase in our leverage could have important consequences to an investment in our common stock, including the following risks: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, store renovations, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants governing our debt, which, among other things, require us to maintain a minimum net worth, comply with certain financial ratios and limit our ability to incur additional debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; and • our exposure to certain financial market risks, including fluctuations in interest rates associated with bank borrowings could become more significant. If we do not perform in accordance with our debt covenants, the institutions providing the funds have the option to withdraw their funding support. We cannot assure that we will remain in compliance with our debt covenants in the future. In addition, our current financing agreement expires in January 2012, and we cannot assure that we will be able to refinance our existing credit facility when it expires. We depend on the services of key executives. Our senior executives are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. It may be difficult to replace them quickly with executives of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have employment agreements with selected executives, we could not prevent them from terminating their employment with us. Other executives are not bound by employment agreements with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 