Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following are the important factors that could cause Monro’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements: We operate in the highly competitive automotive repair industry. The automotive repair industry in which we operate is generally highly competitive and fragmented, and the number, size and strength of our competitors varies widely from region to region. We believe that competition in the industry is based primarily on customer service, reputation, store location, name awareness and price. Our primary competitors include national and regional undercar, tire specialty and general automotive service chains, both franchised and company-operated, car dealerships, mass merchandisers’ operating service centers and, to a lesser extent, gas stations, independent garages and Internet tire sellers. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, are more geographically diverse and have better name recognition than we do, which might place us at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. Because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our competitors reduce prices, we may be forced to reduce our prices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our success within this industry also depends upon our ability to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer demands for both products and services. We cannot assure that we, or any of our stores, will be able to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete successfully in new and existing markets, we may not achieve our projected revenue and profitability targets. We are subject to seasonality and cycles in the general economy and customers’ use of vehicles, which may impact demand for our products and services. Although our business is not highly seasonal, our customers typically purchase more undercar services during the period of March through October than the period of November through February, when miles driven tend to be lower. Further, customers may defer or forego vehicle maintenance at any time during periods of inclement weather. In the tire stores, the better sales months are typically May through August, and October through December. The slowest months are typically January through April and September. As a result, profitability is typically lower during slower sales months, or months where mix is more heavily weighted toward tires, which is a lower margin category. 12 Additionally, since our stores are primarily located in the northeastern United States, profitability tends to be lower in the winter months when certain costs, such as utilities and snow plowing, are typically higher. The automotive repair industry is subject to fluctuations in the general economy. During a downturn in the economy, customers may defer or forego vehicle maintenance or repair. During periods of good economic conditions, consumers may decide to purchase new vehicles rather than having their older vehicles serviced. Further, our industry is influenced by the number of miles driven by automobile owners. Factors that may cause the number of miles driven by automobile owners to decrease include the weather, travel patterns, gas prices and, as discussed above, fluctuations in the general economy. Should a significant reduction in the number of miles driven by automobile owners occur, it would likely have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and services. For example, when the retail cost of gasoline increases, the number of miles driven by automobile owners may decrease, which could result in less frequent service intervals and fewer repairs. Accordingly, a significant reduction in the number of miles driven by automobile owners could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on our relationships with our vendors, including foreign sources, for certain inventory. Our business may be negatively affected by the risks associated with such relationships and international trade. We depend on close relationships with our vendors for parts, tires and supplies and for our ability to purchase products at competitive prices and terms. Our ability to purchase at competitive prices and terms results from the volume of our purchases from these vendors. We have entered into various contracts with parts suppliers that require us to buy from them (at market prices) up to 100% of our annual purchases of specific products. These agreements expire at various dates through July 2017. We believe that alternative sources exist for most of the products we sell or use at our stores, and we would not expect the loss of any one supplier to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our dependence on a small number of suppliers, however, subjects us to the risks of shortages and interruptions. If any of our suppliers do not perform adequately or otherwise fail to distribute parts or other supplies to our stores, our inability to replace the suppliers in a timely manner and on acceptable terms could increase our costs and could cause shortages or interruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we depend on a number of products (e.g. brake parts, tires, oil filters) produced in foreign markets. We face risks associated with the delivery of inventory originating outside the United States, including: • potential economic and political instability in countries where our suppliers are located; • increases in shipping costs; • transportation delays and interruptions; • changes in U.S. and foreign laws affecting the importation and taxation of goods, including duties, tariffs and quotas, or changes in the enforcement of those laws; and • compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials. Our industry is subject to environmental, consumer protection and other regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, building and zoning requirements, employment laws and other governmental regulations regarding the operation of our business. For example, we 13 are subject to rules governing the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous substances contained in some of the products such as motor oil that we sell and use at our stores, the recycling of batteries, tires and used lubricants, and the ownership and operation of real property. These laws and regulations can impose fines and criminal sanctions for violations and require the installation of pollution control equipment or operational changes to decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of exposure to, or release of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter interpretation of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. National automotive repair chains have also been the subject of investigations and reports by consumer protection agencies and the Attorneys General of various states. Publicity in connection with these kinds of investigations could have an adverse effect on our sales and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations. State and local governments have also enacted numerous consumer protection laws with which we must comply. The costs of operating our stores may increase if there are changes in laws governing minimum hourly wages, working conditions, overtime, workers’ compensation and health insurance rates, unemployment tax rates or other laws and regulations. A material increase in these costs that we were unable to offset by increasing our prices or by other means could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in litigation from time to time arising from the operation of our business and, as such, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees or other costs. We are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees or other third parties for various actions. From time to time, we are involved in litigation involving claims related to, among other things, breach of contract, negligence, tortious conduct and employment law matters, including payment of wages. The damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings could be substantial. Although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Business interruptions may negatively impact our store operations, availability of products and/or the operability of our computer systems, which may have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. A breach of our computer systems could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If any of our locations in a particular region are unexpectedly closed permanently or for a period of time, it could have a negative impact on our business. Such closures could occur as a result of circumstances out of our control, including war, acts of terrorism, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters. Further, if our ability to obtain products and merchandise for use in our stores is impeded, it could have a negative impact on our business. Factors that could negatively affect our ability to obtain products and merchandise include the sudden inability to import goods into the United States, for any reason and the curtailment or delay of commercial transportation. While we do maintain business interruption insurance, there is no guarantee that we will be able to use such insurance for any particular location closure or other interruption in operations. Additionally, given the number of individual transactions we process each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our systems could be subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications 14 failures, computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems that result in the compromise of confidential customer data, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim, we may face costly litigation, and our reputation with our customers may be harmed. The risk of disruption is increased in periods where complex and significant systems changes are undertaken. Any material interruption in our computer operations may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers or employees, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation, and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our business involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our customers and employees. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of credit cards or decline to use our services altogether. The loss of confidence from a data security breach involving employees could hurt our reputation and cause employee recruiting and retention challenges. Our business is affected by advances in automotive technology. The demand for our products and services could be adversely affected by continuing developments in automotive technology. Automotive manufacturers are producing cars that last longer and require service and maintenance at less frequent intervals in certain cases. Quality improvement of manufacturers’ original equipment parts has in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce, demand for our products and services, adversely affecting our sales. For example, manufacturers’ use of stainless steel exhaust components has significantly increased the life of those parts, thereby decreasing the demand for exhaust repairs and replacements. Longer and more comprehensive warranty or service programs offered by automobile manufacturers and other third parties also could adversely affect the demand for our products and services. We believe that a majority of new automobile owners have their cars serviced by a dealer during the period that the car is under warranty. In addition, advances in automotive technology continue to require us to incur additional costs to update our diagnostic capabilities and technical training programs. We may not be successful in integrating new and acquired stores. Management believes that our continued growth in sales and profit is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to open/acquire and operate new stores on a profitable basis. In order to do so, we must find reasonably priced new store locations and acquisition candidates that meet our criteria and we must integrate any new stores (opened or acquired) into our system. Our growth and profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to open or acquire new stores or if new or existing stores do not operate at a sufficient level of profitability. If new stores do not achieve expected levels of profitability, this may adversely impact our ability to remain in compliance with our debt covenants or to make required payments under our credit facility. Any impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets could negatively impact our results of operations. Our goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets, are subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and are also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill, intangible assets and/or long-lived assets may be impaired. Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) and other long-lived assets are generally amortized or depreciated over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time 15 to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business that will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets. We have significantly increased our goodwill as a result of our acquisitions. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with the businesses we acquire, which may adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets, as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization or depreciation of other intangible assets or other long-lived assets could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We have completed our annual impairment test for goodwill, and have concluded that we do not have any impairment of goodwill for the year ended March 29, 2014. Store closings result in acceleration of costs. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we close certain stores, generally based on considerations of store profitability, competition, strategic factors and other considerations. Closing a store could subject us to costs including the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture and fixtures. In addition, we could remain liable for future lease obligations. We rely on an adequate supply of skilled field personnel. In order to continue to provide high quality services, we require an adequate supply of skilled field managers and technicians. Trained and experienced automotive field personnel are in high demand, and may be in short supply in some areas. We cannot assure that we will be able to attract, motivate and maintain an adequate skilled workforce necessary to operate our existing and future stores efficiently, or that labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled field personnel, thereby adversely impacting our financial performance. While the automotive repair industry generally operates with high field employee turnover, any material increases in employee turnover rates in our stores or any widespread employee dissatisfaction could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations, our liquidity will suffer and we may be unable to satisfy our obligations. We currently rely on cash flow from operations and our Revolving Credit Facility to fund our business. Amounts outstanding on the Revolving Credit Facility are reported as debt on our balance sheet. While we believe that we have the ability to sufficiently fund our planned operations and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, various risks to our business could result in circumstances that would materially affect our liquidity. For example, cash flows from our operations could be affected by changes in consumer spending habits, the failure to maintain favorable vendor payment terms or our inability to successfully implement sales growth initiatives, among other factors. We may be unsuccessful in securing alternative financing when needed on terms that we consider acceptable. In addition, a significant increase in our leverage could have the following risks: • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, store renovations, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired in the future; • our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants governing our debt, which, among other things, require us to comply with certain financial ratios and limit our ability to incur additional debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations; and 16 • our exposure to certain financial market risks, including fluctuations in interest rates associated with bank borrowings could become more significant. If we do not perform in accordance with our debt covenants, our lenders may restrict our ability to draw on our Revolving Credit Facility. We cannot assure that we will remain in compliance with our debt covenants in the future. We depend on the services of key executives. Our senior executives are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel, identifying expansion opportunities and arranging necessary financing. Losing the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business until a suitable replacement could be found. It may be difficult to replace them quickly with executives of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have employment agreements with selected executives, we cannot prevent them from terminating their employment with us. Other executives are not bound by their employment agreements with us. New accounting guidance or changes in the interpretation or application of existing accounting guidance could affect our financial performance adversely. New accounting guidance may require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. For example, implementing future accounting guidance related to leases and other areas impacted by the current convergence project between the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) could require us to make significant changes to our lease management system or other accounting systems, and could result in changes to our financial statements. Additionally, implementing future accounting guidance related to leases or other items could potentially impact certain performance metrics and financial ratios, and potentially require the renegotiation of debt covenants. Unanticipated changes in the interpretation or application of existing accounting guidance could result in material charges or restatements of our financial statements, which may further result in litigation or regulatory actions which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Healthcare reform legislation could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Act”), as well as other healthcare reform legislation considered by Congress and state legislators, could significantly impact our healthcare cost structure and increase our healthcare-related expenses. The Act requires employers, such as us, to provide health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing coverage. Although we cannot predict with certainty the financial and operational impacts the Act will have, we expect to be required to provide health benefits to more employees than we currently do, which could raise our labor costs. We continue to evaluate the potential impact the healthcare reform legislation will have on our business and the steps necessary to mitigate the impacts, including potential modifications to our current benefit plans, operational changes to minimize the impact of the legislation to our cost structure and increases to selling prices to mitigate the expected increase in healthcare-related expenses. If we cannot effectively modify our programs and operations in response to the new legislation, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 