ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThere are many risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business. Many of these risks are beyond our control. The following is a description of the important risk factors that may affect our business. If any one or more of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Changes in laws and regulations affecting our financial services and products could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.Our financial products and services are subject to extensive regulation under various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations. There have been, and continue to be, legislative and regulatory efforts to regulate, prohibit or severely restrict some of the types of short-term financial services and products we offer, particularly payday loans and auto title loans.Adverse legislation could be enacted in any country, state or municipality in which we operate. If such legislation is enacted in any particular jurisdiction, we generally evaluate our business in the context of the new legislation and determine whether we can continue to operate in that jurisdiction with new or modified products or whether it is feasible to enhance our business with additional product offerings. In any case, if we are unable to continue to operate profitably under the new law, we may decide to close or consolidate stores, resulting in decreased revenues, earnings and assets.For example, in 2011 and 2012, the Cities of Austin, Dallas and San Antonio, Texas adopted municipal ordinances imposing restrictions on certain financial services products we can offer as a credit services organization or credit access business in those cities. Specifically, the ordinances require municipal registrations, limit the amount borrowers can borrow and require principal paydowns on refinancing or with each installment payment. These limitations and restrictions make the products less attractive to our customers, thus lessening demand, and severely impair the financial viability of our financial services business in those cities. We recently closed 20 financial services stores in Dallas, primarily due to the onerous regulatory requirements 15Table of Contentsof the municipal ordinance. See “Item 1 — Business — Discontinued Operations.” The City of Houston recently announced that it will consider adopting a similar ordinance.In addition, any financial services business that we undertake directly in international jurisdictions, as well as the financial services businesses conducted by our strategic affiliates, are subject to a variety of regulation by international governmental authorities. Adverse legislation or regulations could be enacted in any of such international jurisdictions, with the result that the financial services business in that jurisdiction becomes less profitable or unprofitable. For example, the Consumer Credit and Corporations Legislation Amendment (Enhancements) Bill 2011 was passed by the Australian Parliament in August 2012. This new law, which went into effect on July 1, 2013, imposes certain limitations and restrictions on short-term consumer loans in Australia, including interest limitations and restrictions on extensions and refinancings. See ‘‘Part I—Business—Strategic Investments.’’ Further, the Financial Conduct Authority, which on April 1, 2014, will assume primary regulatory authority over short-term consumer lending in the U.K., recently released guidance that focuses on the affordability of the credit extended (i.e., the customer’s ability to repay), the use of continuous payment authority to collect repayments and sustained use short-term credit products. This guidance, when it becomes effective regulation, along with other regulations that may be issued in the future, could have an adverse impact on our online lending business in the U.K.Many of the legislative and regulatory efforts that are adverse to the short-term consumer loan industry are the result of the negative characterization of the industry by some consumer advocacy groups and some media reports that ignore the credit risk and high transaction costs of serving our customers. We can give no assurance that there will not be further negative characterizations of our industry or that legislative or regulatory efforts to eliminate or restrict the availability of certain short-term loan products, including payday loans and auto title loans, will not be successful despite significant customer demand for such products. Such efforts, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial performance.A significant or sudden decrease in gold values or the volume of gold transactions may have a material impact on our earnings and financial position.Gold jewelry comprises a significant portion of the collateral security for our pawn loans and our inventory, and gold scrapping accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and gross profit. Pawn service charges, sales proceeds and our ability to liquidate excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin are dependent upon gold values and the volume of gold transactions. A decline in the availability of gold or our customers’ willingness or ability to sell us gold or use gold as collateral for pawn loans could significantly impact our business. During fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2013, we experienced a significant softening of gold prices and volumes, which had a significant negative impact on our profitability. The impact on our financial position and results of operations of a continued decrease in gold values or volumes or a change in customer behavior cannot be reasonably estimated because the market and customer response to changes in gold values is not known; however, a significant decline in gold values or gold volumes could result in decreases in sales, sales margins and pawn service charge revenues.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has begun exercising its supervisory role over short-term, small-dollar lenders, which could result in a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.As noted under ‘‘Item 1 — Business — Regulation — Short-Term Consumer Loan Regulations,’’ the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the ‘‘CFPB’’), which has the power to, among other things, regulate companies that offer or supply payday loans and other products and services that we offer. The CFPB now exercises its supervisory and regulatory authority over non-depository companies providing consumer financial services products and services.Under its supervisory and examination powers, the CFPB has authority to inspect short-term lenders’ books and records and lending practices, including marketing, underwriting, loan application and processing and collections. The CFPB has published its Short-Term, Small-Dollar Lending Examination Procedures, outlining the guidelines that CFPB examiners will use in examining short-term lenders. The CFPB has begun to conduct examinations of payday loan companies to assess companies’ compliance with federal consumer financial services laws, obtain information on the activities and procedures of short-term lenders and detect risks to consumers. Should the CFPB determine that a financial service provider is in violation of federal law, it has broad authority to initiate administrative actions or litigation, in which it may seek cease and desist orders for the provider’s activities, rescission of loan contracts and administrative fines and penalties.The CFPB also has rule-making authority over short-term lenders. While it does not have authority to regulate fees, it conceivably could adopt rules that could impair the viability or financial performance of products and services. On April 24, 2013, the CFPB issued a report following an in-depth review of short-term small dollar loans, including payday loans. While the CFPB acknowledges the clear demand for small dollar credit products, it does express concern regarding the risk of sustained use of these products by some consumers. The CFPB reiterated its authority to adopt rules identifying unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products and services and stated that it expects to use its authority to provide such protections. It is not possible to accurately predict what affect the CFPB will have 16Table of Contentson our business. The CFPB, through its supervisory or enforcement role or through its rule-making authority, could take actions that would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.A significant portion of our business is concentrated in Texas.As of September 30, 2013, over half of our financial services stores and almost half of our domestic pawn stores were located in Texas, and those stores account for a significant portion of our revenues and profitability. With the exception of activity at the municipal level that has negatively impacted (or may negatively impact) our financial services business, the legislative, regulatory and general business environment in Texas has been relatively favorable for our business activities. We have been successful in growing and expanding our businesses in areas outside Texas for the past several years, and we expect that our business in other areas will continue to grow faster than our business in Texas.A negative legislative or regulatory change in Texas could have a material adverse effect on our overall operations and financial performance. We offer short-term consumer loans in Texas through our credit services organization program in both storefronts and online. If new adverse legislation is enacted in Texas, it could require us to alter or discontinue some or all of our consumer loan business in Texas. During the most recent regular legislative session (which ended in May 2013), the Texas Senate passed a bill that, had it been enacted into law, would have adversely affected our consumer loan business in Texas. The bill included caps on fees, limitations on the amounts that can be loaned, limitations on the number of refinancings, cooling off periods and other restrictions. That bill failed to gain sufficient support in the Texas House of Representatives and was not enacted into law. There can be no assurance that similar legislation will not be considered, or possibly enacted, during future legislative sessions. Even if no legislation is enacted at the state level, various municipalities may still consider and enact ordinances that restrict short-term consumer loans (as Dallas, Austin, San Antonio and several smaller cities have already done, and Houston is proposing to do).A significant change in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial position. We have foreign operations in Mexico, Canada and the United Kingdom and equity investments in the United Kingdom and Australia. Our assets and investments in, and earnings and dividends from, each of these must be translated to U.S. dollars from their respective functional currencies. A significant weakening of any of these foreign currencies could result in lower assets and earnings in U.S. dollars, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Prolonged periods of economic recession and unemployment could adversely affect our lending and retail businesses.All of our businesses, like other businesses, are subject to fluctuations based on varying economic conditions. Economic conditions and general consumer confidence affect the demand for our retail products and the ability and willingness of our customers to utilize our loan products and services. Our consumer loan products and services require the customer to have a verifiable recurring source of income. Consequently, we may experience reduced demand for our consumer loan products during prolonged periods of high unemployment. Weakened economic conditions may also result in an increase in loan defaults and loan losses. Even in the current economic environment, we have been able to efficiently manage our bad debt through our underwriting and collection efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our current bad debt rates or that we will not experience increasing difficulty in collecting defaulted loans.A significant portion of our short-term consumer loan revenues and profitability is dependent upon the ability and willingness of unaffiliated lenders to make loans to our customers.In Texas, where over half of our financial services stores are located, we do not make consumer loans to customers, but assist customers in arranging loans with unaffiliated lenders. We also have a similar arrangement for our online lending business in Ohio. Our credit services organization or credit access business could be adversely affected if (a) we were to lose our current relationships with unaffiliated lenders and were unable to establish a relationship with another unaffiliated lender who was willing and able to make short-term loans to our Texas customers or (b) the unaffiliated lenders are unable to obtain capital or other sources of funding at appropriate rates.Achievement of our growth objectives is dependent upon our ability to open and acquire new stores.Our expansion strategy includes opening de novo store locations and acquiring existing stores. The success of our de novo store strategy is contingent upon numerous factors that cannot be predicted or controlled, such as the availability of acceptable locations with a desirable customer base, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses and the existence of a suitable competitive environment. In addition, our acquisition strategy is dependent upon the availability of attractive acquisition candidates. The achievement of our growth objectives is also subject to our ability 17Table of Contentsto attract, train and retain qualified team members. Failure to achieve our expansion goals would adversely affect our prospects and future results of operations.Changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in Mexico could adversely affect our operations in those countries, which could adversely affect our growth plans.Our growth plans include significant expansion in Mexico. Changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in Mexico, or significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, could affect our ability to expand or continue our operations there, which could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, results of operations and cash flows.Fluctuations in our sales, pawn loan balances, sales margins, pawn redemption rates and loan default and collection rates could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.We regularly experience fluctuations in a variety of operating metrics. Changes in any of these metrics, as might be caused by changes in the economic environment, competitive pressures, changes in customers’ tastes and preferences or a significant decrease in gold prices could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results of operations.Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements or in banks’ abilities or willingness to lend to us could limit our ability to achieve our plans.We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We currently have a $200 million revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. If one of those banks is unable to provide funding in accordance with its commitment, our available credit could be reduced. Our current credit facility is scheduled to terminate in May 2015. Our ability to obtain a new credit facility or alternative financing will depend upon market conditions and our financial condition at the time. If we are unable to obtain a new credit facility or other alternative financing on terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to achieve our growth objectives, and our financial condition and results of operations, may be adversely affected.Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans.We encounter significant competition from other pawn stores, cash advance companies, credit service organizations, credit access businesses, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other forms of financial institutions and other retailers, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Significant increases in the number or size of competitors or other changes in competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number or quality of loan products and services we are able to provide or our ability to liquidate forfeited collateral at acceptable margins.One person beneficially owns all of our voting stock and controls the outcome of all matters requiring a vote of stockholders, which may influence the value of our publicly traded non-voting stock.Phillip E. Cohen is the beneficial owner of all of our Class B Voting Common Stock. As a result of his equity ownership stake, Mr. Cohen controls the outcome of all issues requiring a vote of stockholders and has the ability to control our policies and operations. All of our publicly traded stock is non-voting stock. Consequently, stockholders other than Mr. Cohen have no vote with respect to the election of directors or any other matter requiring a vote of stockholders except as required by law. This lack of voting rights may adversely affect the market value of our publicly traded Class A Non-Voting Common Stock.In addition, we have regularly entered into, and may continue to enter into, advisory services agreements with Madison Park, LLC, a financial advisory firm wholly owned by Mr. Cohen. See “Part III — Item 13 — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence — Related Party Transactions — Agreement with Madison Park.”Infrastructure failures and breaches in data security could harm our business.We depend on our information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. If a problem, such as a computer virus, intentional disruption by a third party, natural disaster, telecommunications system failure or lost connectivity impairs our infrastructure, we may be unable to process transactions or otherwise carry on our business. An infrastructure disruption could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue, result in the unintentional disclosure of company or customer information and require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related data security concerns.18Table of ContentsOur online short-term consumer lending business is subject to additional risks.In addition to being subject to the various federal, state and local regulations that are applicable to short-term consumer lending generally, our online short-term consumer loan business (both in the U.S. and the U.K.) is subject to other regulations and risks. For example, we will be dependent on third parties, referred to as lead providers, to provide us with prospective new customers. Generally, lead providers operate separate websites to attract prospective customers and then sell those ‘‘leads’’ to online lenders. As a result, the success of our online consumer lending business depends substantially on the willingness and ability of lead providers to send us customer leads at prices acceptable to us. The loss or a reduction in leads from lead providers, or the failure of our lead providers to maintain quality and consistency in their programs or services, could reduce our customer prospects and could have a material adverse effect on the success of this line of business. Furthermore, the lead providers’ failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or any changes in laws or regulations applicable to lead providers, could have an adverse effect on our online consumer lending business. Federal legislation was introduced in the U.S. in July 2012 that, if enacted in its current form, would prohibit the use of lead providers or generators to secure consumer business. If such legislation were to be enacted, it would significantly impact the manner in which the online lending business is conducted, and could significantly negatively affect the success and profitability of our online lending business.We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business.Currently and from time to time, we are defendants in various legal and regulatory actions. While we cannot determine the ultimate outcome of any current actions, we believe their resolution will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or an injunction prohibiting us from conducting our business as we currently do. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed.We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments.We currently have significant investments in Albemarle & Bond Holdings PLC and Cash Converters International Limited, both of which are publicly traded companies based outside the United States. We have made these investments, and may in the future make additional investments in these or other companies, to further our strategic objectives. The success of these strategic investments is dependent on a variety of factors, including the business performance of the companies in which we invest and the market’s assessment of that performance. If the business performance of any of these companies suffers, then the value of our investment may decline. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for one of our equity investments, we will be required to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. Based on our review of Albemarle & Bond and its business as of September 30, 2013, we wrote down our investment and recognized an investment loss for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. See “Item 1 — Business — Strategic Investments — Albemarle & Bond.” Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose of some or all of the investment on favorable terms, should we decide to do so in the future. Any realized investment loss would adversely affect our results of operations.We may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance.We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.Our acquisitions, investments and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations.In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, investments and other transactions. These transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that we may not realize the expected return on an acquisition or investment, that we may not be able to retain key personnel of an acquired business, or that we may experience difficulty in integrating acquired businesses into our business systems and processes. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, investments or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to inability to obtain required regulatory or other approvals or other factors. Furthermore, acquisitions, investments and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. These factors could harm our business and results of operations.19Table of ContentsWe could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new tax laws in the U.S. or other countries, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions. Current economic and political conditions make tax rates in any of these jurisdictions subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Events beyond our control could result in business interruption or other adverse effects on our operations and growth.Our business or operations could be subject to interruption or damage due to inclement weather, natural disaster, power loss, acts of violence, terrorist attacks, war or similar events. Such events could impair our customers' access to our business, impact our ability to expand or continue our operations or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial condition.A decrease in demand for our products and specialty financial services and our failure to adapt to such decrease could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on us.Although our products and services are a staple of our customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products, the availability of competing products or changes in customers' financial conditions. Should we fail to adapt to a significant change in our customers' demand for, or access to, our products, our revenues could decrease significantly. Even if we make adaptations or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of our business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, we have changed, and will continue to change, some of our consumer loan operations and the products we offer. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospectus, results of operations and financial condition.Our Mexican payroll withholding business is highly dependent on the relationships that we build and sustain with state and local governments and labor unions.Grupo Finmart and its brokers promote our payroll loan products through public-sector employers in governmental agencies across Mexico. If we are not able to maintain relationships with these entities or increase our distribution network through new relationships with other federal, state and local governments or labor unions, our ability to originate new payroll loans could be diminished, which would reduce the size of our payroll withholding lending loan portfolio. In addition, despite contractual arrangements which provide that the payroll counterparty will continue to deduct payments even if our relationship with that entity is terminated, the credit risk of our existing payroll loan portfolio could increase because payroll deduction payments on existing payroll loans could be disrupted, whether due to our severing a relationship with a broker or otherwise. Goodwill comprises a significant portion of our total assets. We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions.The carrying value of our goodwill was $429 million, or approximately 32% of our total assets, as of September 30, 2013, over $79 million of which is attributable to our two online lending businesses. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") ASC 350-20-35, Goodwill - Subsequent Measurement, we test goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life for potential impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, a change in strategic direction, legal factors, operating performance indicators, a change in the competitive environment, the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, or future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Our annual goodwill impairment test is performed in the fourth quarter utilizing the income approach. This approach uses future cash flows and estimated terminal values for each of our reporting units (discounted using a market participant perspective) to determine the fair value of each reporting unit, which is then compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if there is an impairment. The income approach includes assumptions about revenue growth rates, operating margins and terminal growth rates discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital derived from other publicly-traded companies that are similar but not identical from an operational and economic standpoint. We completed our annual assessment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets as of September 30, 2013 and determined that no material impairment existed at that date. 20Table of ContentsIf our estimates of allowance for loan losses are not adequate to absorb losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected.We maintain an allowance for loan losses for estimated probable losses on company-funded loans and loans in default. See "Part II — Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for factors considered by management in estimating the allowance for loan losses. We also maintain a reserve for loan losses for estimated probable losses on loans funded by our credit services organization ("CSO") partners, but for which we are responsible. As September 30, 2013, our aggregate reserve and allowance for losses on loans not in default (including loans funded by our CSO partners) was $8.3 million. This reserve, however, is an estimate, and if actual losses are greater than our reserve and allowance, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The amount of reserves and allowances is based based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions. Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements we use illegal or unenforceable.We include arbitration provisions in our consumer loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow us to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court and explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. Thus, our arbitration agreements, if enforced, have the effect of shielding us from class action liability. Our arbitration agreements do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings.We take the position that the arbitration provisions in our consumer loan agreements, including class action waivers, are valid and enforceable. However, the enforceability of arbitration provisions is often challenged in court. If those challenges are successful, our arbitration and class action waiver provisions could be unenforceable, which could subject us to additional litigation, including class action litigation.In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory arbitration agreements in consumer contracts and has enacted legislation with such a prohibition with respect to certain mortgage loan agreements and certain consumer loan agreements to members of the military on active duty and their dependents. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the CFPB to study consumer arbitration and report to the U.S. Congress, and it authorized the CFPB to adopt rules limiting or prohibiting consumer arbitration, consistent with the results of its study. Any such rule would apply to arbitration agreements entered into more than six months after the final rule becomes effective (and not to prior arbitration agreements).Any judicial decision, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair our ability to enter into and enforce consumer arbitration agreements and class action waivers could significantly increase our exposure to class action litigation as well as litigation in plaintiff-friendly jurisdictions. Such litigation would be costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have business in countries and regions that are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"). We have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. If employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. Violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We face other risks discussed under "Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk."ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.21Table of Contents