Item 1A. Risk Factors Important risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this discussion, which speaks only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to release publicly the results of any revisions to these risk factors which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereon, including without limitation, changes in our business strategy or planned capital expenditures, store growth plans, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. • Our earnings and financial position are affected by changes in gold values and the resulting impact on pawn lending and jewelry sales; a significant or sudden decrease in gold values may have a material impact on our earnings. Pawn service charges, sales proceeds and our ability to liquidate excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin are dependent upon gold values. We periodically change our lending guidelines on jewelry in response to gold values and other market factors, such as competitor loan values. Gold scrapping revenues were $76.7 million and gross profit from gold scrapping was $29.9 million in fiscal 2008. The impact on our financial position and results of operations of a hypothetical decrease in gold values cannot be reasonably estimated because the market and competitive response to changes in gold values is not known; however, changes in gold values would lead to changes in sales, sales margins, and pawn service charge revenues. • Changes in laws, governmental rules or regulations applicable to the specialty financial services industry could have a negative impact on our lending activities. The passage of new laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations could have a negative impact on our lending activities, including our ability to provide credit services in Texas, where a majority of our signature loans are made. Our lending is subject to extensive regulation and licensing requirements under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations. Recent legislative action has concentrated on attempts to regulate, prohibit, or severely restrict payday lending, including applicable rates and the ability for customers to renew their loans. We can give no assurance that additional local, state, or federal legislation will not be enacted or that existing laws and regulations will not be changed or amended or that events of noncompliance may occur which would materially, adversely impact our operations, financial condition, and the ability to expand our operations. • Our CSO revenues are dependent upon unaffiliated lenders’ ability and willingness to make loans to our customers. The loss of the relationships with our unaffiliated lenders or a decrease in those lenders’ ability to lend money could significantly decrease our revenues and earnings. • Achievement of our growth objectives is dependent upon our ability to open and acquire new stores. Our expansion program is subject to numerous factors that cannot be predicted or controlled, such as identifying acceptable locations or attractive acquisition targets and our ability to attract, train and retain qualified associates. • Fluctuations in our sales, pawn loan balances, sales margins, pawn redemption rates, and signature loan default and collection rates could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We regularly experience fluctuations in these operating metrics. Changes in any of these factors, as might be caused by changes in the economic environment, competitive pressures, changes in customers’ tastes and preferences or a significant decrease in gold prices, could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results. 19 Table of Contents • Changes in the business, regulatory, or political climate in Mexico could affect our Mexico operations and growth plans. Our plans include further growth in Mexico. Significant changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in Mexico, or significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates could limit or cease our ability to continue operating and growing our operations in Mexico, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. • Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements or in banks’ abilities to lend to us could limit our ability to achieve our plans. We require continued access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results, and to complete our planned acquisition of Value Financial Services, Inc. (“VFS”). We are exposed to some credit risk related to our credit agreement to the extent that our lenders, Wells Fargo Bank and Guaranty Bank, may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our existing credit agreement if either or both of the lenders experience liquidity problems. If either lender is unable to provide funding in accordance with the lender’s commitment, our available credit would be reduced by the amount of that lender’s commitment, but we would still have access to the other lender’s credit commitment. We face the same risk in relation to our Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement we expect to become effective at the time we acquire VFS on December 31, 2008, however we believe the risk is lower due to the larger number of banks participating in that credit agreement and the other lenders’ remaining commitments if one or more lenders are unable to honor their commitments. The lenders participating in that credit agreement are Wells Fargo Bank, Union Bank of California, U.S. Bank, Guaranty Bank, and Allied Irish Bank. Liquidity problems at any of these banks could limit or eliminate such bank’s ability to lend to us and, in turn, would reduce our available credit by the lender’s commitment. The remaining lenders’ commitments would remain available to us. • Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans. We encounter significant competition in connection with our lending and retail operations from other pawnshops, cash advance companies and other forms of financial institutions and other retailers, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than us. Significant increases in these competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number or quality of signature loan and pawn loans or our ability to liquidate forfeited collateral at acceptable margins. • One person holds voting control of our stock and controls the outcome of all matters requiring a vote of stockholders, which may influence the value of our publicly traded stock. Mr. Phillip E. Cohen controls all of our Class B Voting Common Stock. He controls the outcome of all issues requiring a vote of stockholders, including the election of our directors. • If we are unable to complete our acquisition of Value Financial Services, Inc. by December 31, 2008, we may not be able to complete the acquisition at all. The commitment we have obtained from several lenders for an expanded credit facility expires December 31, 2008, and we may need the expanded credit facility to finance the cash portion of the consideration to be issued to VFS shareholders. We expect the acquisition to be completed immediately following the vote of VFS’s shareholders on December 31, 2008. If the acquisition is not completed by December 31, 2008, the lending commitment from our bank group will expire. Unless the lenders are willing to extend the lending commitment beyond December 31, 2008, we may not have the cash or access to credit necessary to complete the planned acquisition. • The integration with our business of the eleven Nevada pawn stores acquired in November 2008 and the 67 pawn stores we anticipate acquiring from Value Financial Services, Inc. on December 31, 2008 may not be successful or anticipated benefits from the acquisitions may not be realized. After completion of the acquisitions, we will have significantly larger operations than we did prior to them. Our ability to realize the benefits of the acquisitions will depend in part on the timely integration of the acquired organizations, operations, procedures, policies and 20 Table of Contents technologies with ours, as well as the harmonization of differences in the acquired businesses’ cultures and practices with ours. Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to integrating the acquired businesses with ours. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. These difficulties include the following: • integrating the operations of the acquired businesses with our business while maintaining our ongoing operations; • diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of the acquired businesses with our business; • managing a significantly larger company than before completion of the acquisitions; • realizing economies of scale and eliminating duplicative overheads; • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations regarding the integration process or expected earnings enhancement; • coordinating businesses located in different geographic regions; • integrating the acquired businesses’ cultures and practices with ours, which may prove to be incompatible; • attracting and retaining the personnel associated with the acquired businesses following the acquisitions; • creating and instituting uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and minimizing the costs associated with such matters; and • integrating information, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, payroll and regulatory compliance systems. There is no assurance that the acquisitions will be successfully or cost-effectively integrated into our business operations. The process of integrating the acquired businesses into our operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our business. If our management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer and the results of our operations and financial condition may be harmed. All of the risks associated with the integration process could be exacerbated by the fact that we may not have a sufficient number of employees with the requisite expertise to integrate the businesses or to operate the combined businesses after the acquisitions. If the combined companies do not hire or retain employees with the requisite skills and knowledge to run its business — including the acquired businesses — after the acquisitions, it may have a material adverse effect on the combined companies. We cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated benefits and value of the acquisitions or successfully integrate the acquired businesses with our existing operations. Even if we are able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses with ours, it may not be possible to realize the full benefits and value that are currently expected to result from the acquisitions, or realize these benefits and value within the time frames that are currently expected. For example, the benefits and value gained from the acquisitions may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating the acquired businesses with ours. If we fail to realize anticipated cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements we anticipate from the acquisitions, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have not engaged in any prior mergers as we plan with VFS and have not made any other acquisitions of companies or assets as large as VFS. We have engaged in other acquisitions in the range of $20 million and less. We have not experienced significant operating problems with these acquisitions. 21 Table of Contents • A change in the business climate may cause the actual benefits and value of acquired businesses to differ from the anticipated benefits and value of the acquisitions. A change in the business climate surrounding our business after the completed Nevada and planned VFS acquisitions may affect our customers’ activities and actions. This could cause our financial results and results of operations to be adversely affected. This may also cause the actual benefits and value of the acquired businesses to differ from the benefits and value we anticipate from the acquisitions. • We will incur significant costs and expenses associated with acquisitions. We expect to incur significant costs and expenses associated with the recently completed Nevada acquisition and planned VFS acquisition, which include but are not limited to transaction fees (approximately $0.6 million) and professional service fees and regulatory filing fees (approximately $0.7 million). We also believe we may incur charges to operations, which are not currently reasonably estimable, in the quarter in which the acquisitions are completed or the following quarters, to reflect costs associated with integrating the acquired businesses into ours. There can be no assurance that we will not incur additional material charges in subsequent quarters to reflect additional costs associated with the acquisitions and the integration of the acquired businesses into our business. • Issuance of the EZCORP Shares in the Nevada and Value Financial Services, Inc. acquisitions could have a dilutive effect and cause EZCORP’s earnings per share to decrease. In the November 2008 Nevada acquisition, we issued 1.1 million shares of our Class A Non-voting Common Stock as part of the purchase consideration. Assuming we complete the VFS acquisition as planned on December 31, 2008, we will issue a total of nearly 5 million shares of our Class A Non-voting Common Stock if all VFS shareholders elect to receive such shares pursuant to the merger agreement with VFS. Together, these transactions will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our Class A Non-voting Common Stock by approximately 15%. If we are unable to realize sufficient value from the acquisitions, the issuance of these shares will decrease the net asset value per share of our stock, thereby decreasing the value of those shares in the hands of our shareholders and possibly causing our stock market price to drop. • The Florida Business Corporation Act gives Value Financial Services, Inc. shareholders the right to have the value of their stock appraised by a Florida court, which could raise the cost of acquiring the Value Financial Services, Inc. stock. The Florida Business Corporation Act provides that VFS shareholders who do not vote in favor of the merger with EZCORP, assert their right to be paid “fair value” for their shares and do not accept our estimate of the fair value of VFS shares after the merger, can seek to have a Florida state court review the transaction and award them fair value for their shares. If a significant number of minority shareholders assert these appraisal rights, a Florida court might disagree with our valuation and award the shareholders a significantly higher price than we intend to pay. • The contingent consideration we offered in the Value Financial Services, Inc. merger may increase the incentive of the Value Financial Services, Inc. shareholders to sell the EZCORP shares they obtain in the merger and drive down the price of our stock. To induce VFS’s board of directors and shareholders to approve the merger, we agreed to pay additional cash consideration to the VFS shareholders if they sell their stock within 125 days after closing of the merger, if they sell at a price either above or below $14.67 per EZCORP share. During the 125 day period, the additional cash consideration gives a limited amount of price protection to VFS shareholders if our stock price falls, and to provide an incentive to sell our stock at prices only in excess of the $14.67 valuation on which the merger consideration was based. Because these additional payments are available for only a limited, 125 day period after closing, VFS shareholders may feel an additional urge to sell their EZCORP shares. Thus, these potential payments could increase selling of our stock and send our stock price down. • We face other risks discussed under Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. 22 Table of Contents 