ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThere are many risks and uncertainties that may affect our operations, performance, development and results. Many of these risks are beyond our control. The following is a description of the important risk factors that may affect our business. If any of these risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.Changes in laws and regulations affecting our financial services and products could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.Our financial products and services are subject to extensive regulation under various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations. There have been, and continue to be, legislative and regulatory efforts to regulate, prohibit or severely restrict some of the types of short-term financial services and products we offer, particularly payday loans and auto title loans.Adverse legislation could be enacted in any country, state or municipality in which we operate. If such legislation is enacted in any particular jurisdiction, we generally evaluate our business in the context of the new legislation and determine whether we can continue to operate in that jurisdiction with new or modified products or whether it is feasible to enhance our business with additional product offerings. In any case, if we are unable to continue to operate profitably under the new law, we may decide to close or consolidate stores, resulting in decreased revenues, earnings and assets.For example, in recent years, many cities in Texas (including Austin, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio and El Paso) have adopted municipal ordinances imposing restrictions on certain financial services products we can offer as a credit services organization or credit access business in those cities. Specifically, the ordinances require municipal registrations, limit the amount borrowers can borrow and require principal paydowns on refinancing or with each installment payment. These limitations and restrictions make the products less attractive to our customers, thus lessening demand, and severely impair the financial viability of our 15Table of Contentsfinancial services business in those cities. In fiscal 2013 we closed 20 financial services stores in Dallas and the State of Florida primarily due to the onerous regulatory requirements.The next biennial session of the Texas legislature begins in January 2015 and is scheduled to adjourn in May 2015. In connection with the upcoming legislative session, several bills affecting the short-term consumer loan business in Texas have already been filed. These bills contain provisions that would, among other things, impose rate caps (36% annual percentage rate), mandate reporting to a state-wide database and enact the requirements of the municipal ordinances discussed above on a state-wide basis subject to the regulatory enforcement and supervision authority of the Office of the Consumer Credit Commissioner. It is not possible to say with any certainty what will happen with any of these bills or any other bill that may be introduced.In addition, any financial services business that we undertake directly in international jurisdictions, as well as the financial services businesses conducted by our strategic affiliate, are subject to a variety of regulation by international governmental authorities. Adverse legislation or regulations could be enacted in any of such international jurisdictions, with the result that the financial services business in that jurisdiction becomes less profitable or unprofitable. For example, the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which on April 1, 2014, assumed primary regulatory authority over short-term consumer lending in the U.K., has issued guidance and rules that focus on the affordability of the credit extended (i.e., the customer’s ability to repay), the use of continuous payment authority to collect repayments and sustained use of short-term credit products. These rules became effective July 1, 2014. In addition, the FCA issued proposed rules in July 2014 that would significantly limit the amount of interest and fees that could be charged on “high cost short-term credit” products, including the loans we have been offering online through our Cash Genie operations. These new limitations are expected to become effective January 1, 2015. The FCA’s guidance, new rules and proposed rules contributed to our decision to exit the online lending market in the U.K. and discontinue our Cash Genie operations. See “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Growth and Expansion — Discontinued Operations.”Many of the legislative and regulatory efforts that are adverse to the short-term consumer loan industry are the result of the negative characterization of the industry by some consumer advocacy groups and some media reports that ignore the credit risk and high transaction costs of serving our customers. We can give no assurance that there will not be further negative characterizations of our industry or that legislative or regulatory efforts to eliminate or restrict the availability of certain short-term loan products, including payday loans and auto title loans, will not be successful despite significant customer demand for such products. Such efforts, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial performance.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has begun exercising its supervisory role over short-term, small-dollar lenders, which could result in a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.As discussed under “Part 1 — Item 1 — Business — Regulation — Short-Term Consumer Loan Regulations,” the CFPB now exercises its supervisory and regulatory authority over non-depository companies providing consumer financial services products and services, including payday loans and other products and services we offer. The CFPB has cited several short-term lenders with violations of Dodd-Frank’s prohibition on “unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices” (“UDAAP”). It is not possible to accurately predict what affect the CFPB will have on our business. The CFPB, through its supervisory or enforcement role or through its rule-making authority, could take actions that would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. For a description of a current regulatory investigation being conducted by the CFPB, see the following risk factor. Litigation and regulatory proceedings could have a material adverse impact on our business.We are currently subject to various litigation and regulatory actions. In addition to the matters described in “Part I — Item 3 — Legal Proceedings,” we are from time to time subject to other legal and regulatory actions, including the following:•CFPB — In February 2014, we received a Civil Investigative Demand (“CID”) from the CFPB. The CID requested us to produce documents and provide answers to written questions. We submitted all information requested by this CID. In October 2014, we received a follow-up CID requesting additional information regarding certain of the matters addressed in the initial CID, and in November 2014, the CFPB requested oral testimony from Company representatives. We are the process of submitting the information requested by the follow-up CID and continue to cooperate fully with the CFPB in its investigation. To date, no claims have been asserted by the CFPB as a result of our responses, although there can be no assurance that the CFPB will not assert claims, including that one or more of our historical practices constitute UDAAP violations. Any such claim could require us to pay fines, penalties and/or customer restitution, or could result in changes to our business practices to address the claims asserted.•FCA — In the course of evaluating and preparing our Cash Genie business for compliance with the new FCA guidelines and rules, we noted three issues primarily related to our legacy business and self-reported those to the FCA 16Table of Contentsin June 2014 and have been in regular dialog with the FCA regarding those issues since. In July, we agreed to the imposition of a Voluntary Requirement formalizing our commitment to review and evaluate the issues under the oversight of an independent "skilled person" appointed by the FCA to determine whether customers have been adversely affected by those issues and, if so, to assess the redress that would be appropriate. Grant Thornton was selected as the skilled person to oversee the process (referred to as a “section 166 process”) and that process is currently underway. At this point, it cannot be determined whether resolution of this matter will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.We cannot determine the ultimate outcome of any current litigation or regulatory actions. These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or an injunction prohibiting us from conducting our business as we currently do. Any unfavorable ruling or outcome could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could negatively affect our reputation.We have procured management liability insurance policies that should protect us from much of the potential exposure related to the shareholder derivative litigation and the federal securities litigation described under “Part I — Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” However, under the terms of those policies, we bear the first $1 million of costs or liability associated with those actions. Consequently, we expect that our results of operations will be adversely affected by the current litigation until we exhaust the $1 million retention under our management liability insurance policies. In addition, to the extent that our ultimate liability in the current litigation or any subsequent litigation that is included in the same policy year exceeds the management liability policy limits, our results of operations could be adversely affected.One person beneficially owns all of our voting stock and controls the outcome of all matters requiring a vote of stockholders, which may influence the value of our publicly traded non-voting stock.Phillip E. Cohen is the beneficial owner of all of our Class B Voting Common Stock. As a result of his equity ownership stake, Mr. Cohen controls the outcome of all issues requiring a vote of stockholders and has the ability to appoint or remove directors who control our policies and operations. All of our publicly traded stock is non-voting stock. Consequently, stockholders other than Mr. Cohen have no vote with respect to the election of directors or any other matter requiring a vote of stockholders except as required by law. This lack of voting rights may adversely affect the market value of our publicly traded Class A Non-Voting Common Stock.In July 2014, the sole voting stockholder made changes to the Company’s Bylaws that generally restructure certain aspects of the Company’s corporate governance. See “Part III — Item 10 — Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance — Corporate Governance — Board of Directors and Governance Changes.”For the past several years, we have entered into advisory services agreements with Madison Park, LLC, a financial advisory firm wholly owned by Mr. Cohen. The agreement for fiscal 2014 called for the payment of a retainer fee of $600,000 per month plus the reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the engagement. On May 20, 2014, we provided Madison Park with a 30-day notice of termination pursuant to the terms of the agreement, and the agreement terminated effective June 19, 2014. See “Part III — Item 13 — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence — Related Party Transactions — Agreement with Madison Park.”A significant portion of our business is concentrated in Texas.As of September 30, 2014, over half of our financial services stores and almost half of our domestic pawn stores were located in Texas, and those stores account for a significant portion of our revenues and profitability. With the exception of activity at the municipal level that has negatively impacted (or may negatively impact) our financial services business, the legislative, regulatory and general business environment in Texas has been relatively favorable for our business activities. We have been successful in growing and expanding our businesses in areas outside Texas for the past several years, and we expect that our business in other areas will continue to grow faster than our business in Texas.A negative legislative or regulatory change in Texas could have a material adverse effect on our overall operations and financial performance. We offer short-term consumer loans in Texas through our credit services organization program. If new adverse legislation is enacted in Texas, it could require us to alter or discontinue some or all of our consumer loan business in Texas. As noted above, bills that could potentially have an adverse impact on our consumer loan business in Texas have already been filed in connection with the upcoming Texas legislative session (which starts in January 2015). There can be no assurance that adverse legislation will not be considered, or possibly enacted, during the upcoming legislative session.17Table of ContentsA significant or sudden decrease in gold values or the volume of gold transactions may have a material impact on our earnings and financial position.Gold jewelry comprises a significant portion of the collateral security for our pawn loans and our inventory, and gold scrapping accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and gross profit. Pawn service charges, sales proceeds and our ability to liquidate excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin are dependent upon gold values and the volume of gold transactions. A decline in the availability of gold or our customers’ willingness or ability to sell us gold or use gold as collateral for pawn loans could significantly impact our business. During fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, we experienced a significant softening of gold prices and volumes, which had a significant negative impact on our profitability. The impact on our financial position and results of operations of a continued decrease in gold values or volumes or a change in customer behavior cannot be reasonably estimated because the market and customer response to changes in gold values is not known; however, a significant decline in gold values or gold volumes could result in decreases in sales, sales margins and pawn service charge revenues.A significant change in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial position. We have foreign operations in Mexico and Canada and equity investments in Australia. Our assets and investments in, and earnings and dividends from, each of these must be translated to U.S. dollars from their respective functional currencies. A significant weakening of any of these foreign currencies could result in lower assets and earnings in U.S. dollars, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Prolonged periods of economic recession and unemployment could adversely affect our lending and retail businesses.All of our businesses, like other businesses, are subject to fluctuations based on varying economic conditions. Economic conditions and general consumer confidence affect the demand for our retail products and the ability and willingness of our customers to utilize our loan products and services. Our consumer loan products and services require the customer to have a verifiable recurring source of income. Consequently, we may experience reduced demand for our consumer loan products during prolonged periods of high unemployment. Weakened economic conditions may also result in an increase in loan defaults and loan losses. Even in the current economic environment, we have been able to efficiently manage our bad debt through our underwriting and collection efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our current bad debt rates or that we will not experience increasing difficulty in collecting defaulted loans.A significant portion of our short-term consumer loan revenues and profitability is dependent upon the ability and willingness of unaffiliated lenders to make loans to our customers.In Texas, where over half of our financial services stores are located, we do not make consumer loans to customers, but assist customers in arranging loans with unaffiliated lenders. Our credit services organization or credit access business could be adversely affected if (a) we were to lose our current relationships with unaffiliated lenders and were unable to establish a relationship with another unaffiliated lender who was willing and able to make short-term loans to our Texas customers or (b) the unaffiliated lenders are unable to obtain capital or other sources of funding at appropriate rates.Achievement of our growth objectives is dependent upon our ability to open and acquire new stores.Our expansion strategy includes opening de novo store locations and acquiring existing stores. The success of our de novo store strategy is contingent upon numerous factors that cannot be predicted or controlled, such as the availability of acceptable locations with a desirable customer base, the negotiation of acceptable lease terms, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses and the existence of a suitable competitive environment. In addition, our acquisition strategy is dependent upon the availability of attractive acquisition candidates. The achievement of our growth objectives is also subject to our ability to attract, train and retain qualified team members. Failure to achieve our expansion goals would adversely affect our prospects and future results of operations.Changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in Mexico could adversely affect our operations in those countries, which could adversely affect our growth plans.Our growth plans include significant expansion in Mexico. Changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in Mexico, or significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates, could affect our ability to expand or continue our operations there, which could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, results of operations and cash flows.18Table of ContentsFluctuations in our sales, pawn loan balances, sales margins, pawn redemption rates and loan default and collection rates could have a material adverse impact on our operating results.We regularly experience fluctuations in a variety of operating metrics. Changes in any of these metrics, as might be caused by changes in the economic environment, competitive pressures, changes in customers’ tastes and preferences or a significant decrease in gold prices could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results of operations.Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements or in banks’ abilities or willingness to lend to us could limit our ability to achieve our plans.We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. During fiscal 2014, we completed the sale of $230 million principal amount of 2.125% Cash Convertible Senior Notes Due 2019 and used the proceeds to, among other things, pay all outstanding amounts under, and terminate, our revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. Our ability to obtain additional credit or alternative financing, if needed, will depend upon market conditions, our financial condition and banks’ or other lenders’ willingness to lend capital at acceptable rates. The inability to access capital at acceptable rates and terms could impair our ability to achieve our growth objectives, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans.We encounter significant competition from other pawn stores, cash advance companies, credit service organizations, credit access businesses, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other forms of financial institutions and other retailers, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Significant increases in the number or size of competitors or other changes in competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number or quality of loan products and services we are able to provide or our ability to liquidate forfeited collateral at acceptable margins.Infrastructure failures and breaches in data security could harm our business.We depend on our information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. If a problem, such as a computer virus, intentional disruption by a third party, natural disaster, telecommunications system failure or lost connectivity impairs our infrastructure, we may be unable to process transactions or otherwise carry on our business. An infrastructure disruption could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue, result in the unintentional disclosure of company or customer information and require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related data security concerns.We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments.We currently have a significant investment in Cash Converters International Limited, which is a publicly traded company based in Australia. We have made this investment, and may in the future make additional investments in this or other companies, to further our strategic objectives. The success of these strategic investments is dependent on a variety of factors, including the business performance of the companies in which we invest and the market’s assessment of that performance. If the business performance of any of these companies suffers, then the value of our investment may decline. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for one of our equity investments, we will be required to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. Any realized investment loss would adversely affect our results of operations. We previously had an investment in Albemarle & Bond. Based on our review of Albemarle & Bond and its business as of September 30, 2013, we wrote down a significant portion of our investment, and recognized an investment loss, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. Due to a continued deterioration in Albemarle & Bond’s business and prospects, we wrote down the remainder of our investment, and recognized an additional investment loss, in the second quarter of fiscal 2014.We may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance.We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition.19Table of ContentsOur acquisitions, investments and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations.In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, investments and other transactions. These transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that we may not realize the expected return on an acquisition or investment, that we may not be able to retain key personnel of an acquired business, or that we may experience difficulty in integrating acquired businesses into our business systems and processes. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, investments or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to inability to obtain required regulatory or other approvals or other factors. Furthermore, acquisitions, investments and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. These factors could harm our business and results of operations.We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new tax laws in the U.S. or other countries, or exposure to additional tax liabilities.We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and several foreign jurisdictions. Current economic and political conditions make tax rates in any of these jurisdictions subject to significant change. Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Events beyond our control could result in business interruption or other adverse effects on our operations and growth.Our business or operations could be subject to interruption or damage due to inclement weather, natural disaster, power loss, acts of violence, terrorist attacks, war or similar events. Such events could impair our customers' access to our business, impact our ability to expand or continue our operations or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial condition.A decrease in demand for our products and specialty financial services and our failure to adapt to such decrease could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on us.Although our products and services are a staple of our customer base, the demand for a particular product or service may decrease due to a variety of factors, such as regulatory restrictions that reduce customer access to particular products, the availability of competing products or changes in customers' financial conditions. Should we fail to adapt to a significant change in our customers' demand for, or access to, our products, our revenues could decrease significantly. Even if we make adaptations or introduce new products to fulfill customer demand, customers may resist or may reject products whose adaptations make them less attractive or less available. In any event, the effect of any product change on the results of our business may not be fully ascertainable until the change has been in effect for some time. In particular, we have changed, and will continue to change, some of our consumer loan operations and the products we offer. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospectus, results of operations and financial condition.Our Mexican payroll withholding business is highly dependent on the relationships that we build and sustain with state and local governments and labor unions.Grupo Finmart and its brokers promote our payroll loan products through public-sector employers in governmental agencies across Mexico. If we are not able to maintain relationships with these entities or increase our distribution network through new relationships with other federal, state and local governments or labor unions, our ability to originate new payroll loans could be diminished, which would reduce the size of our payroll withholding lending loan portfolio. In addition, despite contractual arrangements which provide that the payroll counterparty will continue to deduct payments even if our relationship with that entity is terminated, the credit risk of our existing payroll loan portfolio could increase because payroll deduction payments on existing payroll loans could be disrupted, whether due to our severing a relationship with a broker or otherwise. Goodwill comprises a significant portion of our total assets. We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually, which could result in a material, non-cash write-down and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions.The carrying value of our goodwill was $347 million, or approximately 25% of our total assets, as of September 30, 2014. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 350-20-35 Goodwill — Subsequent Measurement, we test goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life for potential impairment annually, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, a change in strategic direction, legal factors, operating performance indicators, a change in the competitive 20Table of Contentsenvironment, the sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, or future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flows of our reporting units. Our annual goodwill impairment test is performed in the fourth quarter utilizing the income approach. This approach uses future cash flows and estimated terminal values for each of our reporting units (discounted using a market participant perspective) to determine the fair value of each reporting unit, which is then compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if there is an impairment. The income approach includes assumptions about revenue growth rates, operating margins and terminal growth rates discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital derived from other publicly-traded companies that are similar but not identical from an operational and economic standpoint. We completed our annual assessment of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets as of September 30, 2014 (following the impairment or write-down of goodwill associated with discontinued operations in our two online lending business units) and determined that no material impairment existed at that date, other than an amount for internally developed software. If our estimates of allowance for loan losses are not adequate to absorb losses, our results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected.We maintain an allowance for loan losses for estimated probable losses on company-funded loans and loans in default. See "Part II — Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for factors considered by management in estimating the allowance for loan losses. We also maintain a reserve for loan losses for estimated probable losses on loans funded by our CSO partners, but for which we are responsible. At September 30, 2014, our aggregate reserve and allowance for losses on loans not in default (including loans funded by our CSO partners) was $27.6 million. The amount of reserves and allowances is based on our current assessment of and expectations concerning various factors affecting the quality of our loan portfolio. These factors include, among other things, our borrowers’ financial condition, repayment abilities and repayment intentions. This reserve, however, is an estimate, and if actual losses are greater than our reserve and allowance, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Judicial decisions, CFPB rule-making or amendments to the Federal Arbitration Act could render the arbitration agreements we use illegal or unenforceable.We include arbitration provisions in our consumer loan agreements. These provisions are designed to allow us to resolve any customer disputes through individual arbitration rather than in court and explicitly provide that all arbitrations will be conducted on an individual and not on a class basis. Thus, our arbitration agreements, if enforced, have the effect of shielding us from class action liability. Our arbitration agreements do not generally have any impact on regulatory enforcement proceedings.We take the position that the arbitration provisions in our consumer loan agreements, including class action waivers, are valid and enforceable. However, the enforceability of arbitration provisions is often challenged in court. If those challenges are successful, our arbitration and class action waiver provisions could be unenforceable, which could subject us to additional litigation, including class action litigation.In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would generally limit or prohibit mandatory arbitration agreements in consumer contracts and has enacted legislation with such a prohibition with respect to certain mortgage loan agreements and certain consumer loan agreements to members of the military on active duty and their dependents. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act directs the CFPB to study consumer arbitration and report to the U.S. Congress, and it authorized the CFPB to adopt rules limiting or prohibiting consumer arbitration, consistent with the results of its study. Any such rule would apply to arbitration agreements entered into more than six months after the final rule becomes effective (and not to prior arbitration agreements).Any judicial decision, legislation or other rules or regulations that impair our ability to enter into and enforce consumer arbitration agreements and class action waivers could significantly increase our exposure to class action litigation as well as litigation in plaintiff-friendly jurisdictions. Such litigation would be costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws, and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have business in countries and regions that are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"). We have implemented safeguards and 21Table of Contentspolicies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. If employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. Violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.We face other risks discussed under "Part II — Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk."ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.22Table of Contents