risk factors that may affect our business. If any one or more of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. • Changes in laws and regulations affecting our financial services and products could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our financial products and services are subject to extensive regulation under various federal, state and local laws and regulations. There have been, and continue to be, legislative and regulatory efforts to regulate, prohibit or severely restrict some of the types of short-term financial services and products we offer, particularly payday loans and auto title loans. As noted above under “Item 1 – Business – Regulation,” the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act establishes a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have the power to, among other things, regulate companies that offer or supply payday loans, pawn loans and other products and services that we offer. Until the bureau has become operational and begins to propose rules and regulations that apply to our activities, it is not possible to accurately predict what affect the bureau will have on our business. There can be no assurance that the bureau will not propose and enact rules or regulations that would have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Adverse legislation could also be enacted in any state in which we operate. As noted above under “Item 1 – Business – Regulation,” recent legislative changes in Colorado and Wisconsin adversely affected our business in those states. Although we decided to close or consolidate 11 short-term consumer loan stores in those states because of those changes, we are continuing to operate in the remaining stores with new or modified products that fit within the new regulatory frameworks and are evaluating the feasibility of additional product offerings to enhance our business in those stores. If we are unable to continue to operate profitably under the new laws in either or both of these states, or if adverse legislation is passed in other states, we may decide to close or consolidate additional stores, resulting in decreased revenues, earnings and assets. In particular, a bill has been proposed in Texas that, if enacted in its current form, would adversely affect our short-term consumer loan business in Texas. The next biennual session of the Texas legislature does not begin until January 2011 (and is scheduled to adjourn in May 2011), and thus, it is not possible to say with any certainty what will happen with that bill or any other bill that may be introduced. Many of the legislative and regulatory efforts that are adverse to the short-term consumer loan industry are the result of the negative characterization of the industry by some consumer advocacy groups and some media reports. We can give no assurance that there will not be further negative characterizations of our industry or that legislative or regulatory efforts to eliminate or restrict the availability of certain short-term loan products, including payday loans and auto title loans, will not be successful despite significant customer demand for such products. Such efforts, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial performance. 15 Table of Contents • A significant or sudden decrease in gold values may have a material impact on our earnings and financial position. Gold jewelry comprises a significant portion of the collateral security for our pawn loans and our inventory, and gold scrapping accounts for a significant portion of our revenues and gross profit. Pawn service charges, sales proceeds and our ability to liquidate excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin are dependent upon gold values. The impact on our financial position and results of operations of a hypothetical decrease in gold values cannot be reasonably estimated because the market and competitive response to changes in gold values is not known; however, a significant decline in gold values could result in decreases in sales, sales margins, and pawn service charge revenues. • A significant portion of our business is concentrated in Texas. Over half of our short-term consumer loan stores and almost half of our domestic pawn stores are located in Texas, and those stores account for a significant portion of our revenues and profitability. The legislative, regulatory and general business environment in Texas has been, and continues to be, relatively favorable for our business activities. We have been successful in growing and expanding our businesses in areas outside Texas for the past several years, and we expect that our business in other areas (including Mexico and Canada) will continue to grow faster than our business in Texas. In the foreseeable future, however, a negative legislative or regulatory change in Texas could have a material adverse effect on our overall operations and financial performance. • A significant change in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial position. We have foreign operations in Mexico and Canada and equity investments in the United Kingdom and Australia. Our assets, investments in, earnings from and dividends from each of these must be translated to U.S. dollars from their respective functional currencies of the Mexican peso, Canadian dollar, British pound and the Australian dollar. A significant weakening of any of these foreign currencies could result in lower assets and earnings in U.S. dollars, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. • Prolonged periods of economic recession and unemployment could adversely affect our lending and retail businesses. All of our businesses, like other businesses, are subject to fluctuations based on varying economic conditions. Economic conditions and general consumer confidence affect the demand for our retail products and the ability and willingness of our customers to utilize our loan products and services. Our signature loan products and services require the customer to have a verifiable recurring source of income. Consequently, we may experience reduced demand for our signature loan products during prolonged periods of high unemployment. Weakened economic conditions may also result in an increase in loan defaults and loan losses. Even in the current economic environment, we have been able to efficiently manage our bad debt through our underwriting and collection efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our current bad debt rates or that we will not experience increasing difficulty in collecting defaulted loans. • A significant portion of our short-term consumer loan revenues and profitability is dependent upon the ability and willingness of unaffiliated lenders to make loans to our customers. In Texas, where over half of our short-term consumer loan stores are located, we do not make such loans to customers, but assist customers in arranging loans with unaffiliated lenders. Our short-term consumer loan business could be adversely affected if (a) we were to lose our current relationships with unaffiliated lenders and were unable to establish a relationship with another unaffiliated lender who was willing and able to make short-term loans to our Texas customers or (b) the unaffiliated lenders are unable to obtain capital or other sources of funding at appropriate rates. • Achievement of our growth objectives is dependent upon our ability to open and acquire new stores. Our expansion strategy includes opening new stores and acquiring existing stores. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous factors that cannot be predicted or controlled, such as the availability of acceptable locations, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses, the availability of attractive acquisition candidates and our ability to attract, train and retain qualified associates. Failure to achieve our expansion goals would adversely affect our prospects and future results of operations. 16 Table of Contents • Changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in Mexico or Canada could adversely affect our operations in those countries, which could adversely affect our growth plans. Our growth plans include significant expansion in Mexico and Canada. Changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in either of those countries, or significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our ability to expand or continue our operations there, which could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, results of operations and cash flows. • Drug related violence could adversely affect our operations and growth plans in Mexico. To date, the drug related violence in Mexico has been most prevalent along the United States border and other areas where we do not have a significant presence, and has had little effect on our operations. If the violence were to spread to other areas of Mexico, where we have a greater presence, it could affect our ability to expand or continue our operations there, which could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, results of operations, cash flows and assets. • Fluctuations in our sales, pawn loan balances, sales margins, pawn redemption rates and loan default and collection rates could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We regularly experience fluctuations in a variety of operating metrics. Changes in any of these metrics, as might be caused by changes in the economic environment, competitive pressures, changes in customers’ tastes and preferences or a significant decrease in gold prices could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results of operations. • Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements or in banks’ abilities or willingness to lend to us could limit our ability to achieve our plans. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We currently have a credit agreement with a syndicate of banks. If one of those lenders is unable to provide funding in accordance with its commitment, our available credit could be reduced by the amount of that lender’s commitment. • Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans. We encounter significant competition from other pawn stores, cash advance companies, credit service organizations, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other forms of financial institutions and other retailers, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Significant increases in the number or size of competitors or other changes in competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number or quality of loan products and services we are able to provide or our ability to liquidate forfeited collateral at acceptable margins. • Infrastructure failures and breaches in data security could harm our business. We depend on our information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. If a problem, such as a computer virus, intentional disruption by a third party, natural disaster, telecommunications system failure or lost connectivity impairs our infrastructure, we may be unable to process transactions or otherwise carry on our business. An infrastructure disruption could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue, result in the unintentional disclosure of company or customer information, and require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related data security concerns. • One person beneficially owns all of our voting stock and controls the outcome of all matters requiring a vote of stockholders, which may influence the value of our publicly traded non-voting stock. Phillip E. Cohen is the beneficial owner of all of our Class B Voting Common Stock and controls the outcome of all issues requiring a vote of stockholders. All of our publicly traded stock is non-voting stock. Consequently, stockholders other than Mr. Cohen have no vote with respect to the election of directors or any other matter requiring a vote of stockholders. This lack of voting rights may adversely affect the market value of the publicly traded Class A Non-voting Common Stock. 17 Table of Contents • We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. Currently and from time to time, we are defendants in various legal and regulatory actions. While we cannot determine the ultimate outcome of these actions, we believe their resolution will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. However, litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or an injunction prohibiting us from conducting our business as we currently do. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. • We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We currently have significant investments in Albemarle & Bond Holdings PLC and Cash Converters International Limited, both of which are publicly traded companies based outside the United States. We have made these investments, and may in the future make additional investments in these or other companies, to further our strategic objectives. The success of these strategic investments is dependent on a variety of factors, including the business performance of the companies in which we invest and the market’s assessment of that performance. If the business performance of any of these companies suffers, then the value of our investment may decline. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for one of our equity investments, we will be required to write down that investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to dispose of some or all of an investment on favorable terms, should we decide to do so in the future. Any realized investment loss would adversely affect our results of operations. • We may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by insurance. We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty and other risks. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time, depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. • Our acquisitions, investments and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, investments and other transactions. These transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that we may not realize the expected return on an acquisition or investment, that we may not be able to retain key personnel of an acquired business, or that we may experience difficulty in integrating acquired businesses into our business systems and processes. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, investments or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to inability to obtain required regulatory or other approvals or other factors. Furthermore, acquisitions, investments and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. These factors could harm our business and results of operations. • We face other risks discussed under Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 