Item 1A. Risk Factors Important risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations are described below. These factors are not intended to be an all-encompassing list of risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this discussion, which speaks only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to release publicly the results of any revisions to these risk factors which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereon, including without limitation, changes in our business strategy or planned capital expenditures, store growth plans, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. • Our earnings and financial position are affected by changes in gold values and the resulting impact on pawn lending and jewelry sales; a significant or sudden decrease in gold values may have a material impact on our earnings. Pawn service charge, sales proceeds and our ability to liquidate excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin are dependent upon gold values. We periodically change our lending guidelines on jewelry in response to gold values and other market factors, such as competitor loan values. Gold scrapping revenues were $51.9 million and gross profit from gold scrapping was $17.4 million in fiscal 2007. The impact on our financial position and results of operations of a hypothetical decrease in gold values cannot be reasonably estimated because the market and competitive response to changes in gold values is not known; however, changes in gold values would lead to changes in sales, sales margins, and pawn service charge revenues. • Changes in laws, governmental rules or regulations applicable to the specialty financial services industry could have a negative impact on our lending activities. The passage of new laws and regulations or changes in existing laws and regulations could have a negative impact on our lending activities, including our ability to provide credit services in Texas, where a majority of our signature loans are made. Our lending is subject to extensive regulation and licensing requirements under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations. Recent legislative action has concentrated on attempts to regulate, prohibit, or severely restrict payday lending, including applicable rates, the ability for customers to renew their loans, and the ability to lend to military personnel. Although we have not operated in any states where legislative activity has prohibited or severely restricted our business, we can give no assurance that additional local, state, or federal legislation will not be enacted or that existing laws and regulations will not be changed or amended or that events of noncompliance may occur which would materially, adversely impact our operations, financial condition, and the ability to expand our operations. • Our CSO revenues are dependent upon unaffiliated lenders’ ability and willingness to make loans to our customers. The loss of the relationships with our unaffiliated lenders or a decrease in those lenders’ ability to lend money could significantly decrease our revenues and earnings. • Achievement of our growth objectives is dependent upon our ability to open and acquire new stores. Our expansion program is subject to numerous factors that cannot be predicted or controlled, such as identifying acceptable locations or attractive acquisition targets and our ability to attract, train and retain qualified associates. • Fluctuations in our sales, pawn loan balances, sales margins, pawn redemption rates, and signature loan default and collection rates could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We regularly experience fluctuations in these operating metrics. Changes in any of these factors, as might be caused by changes in the economic environment, competitive pressures, changes in customers’ tastes and preferences or a significant decrease in gold prices, could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results. 18 Table of Contents • Changes in the business, regulatory, or political climate in Mexico could affect our Mexico operations and growth plans. We have begun expanding our Mexico pawn operations, and our plans include further growth in Mexico. Significant changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in Mexico, or significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates could limit or cease our ability to continue operating and growing our operations in Mexico, which could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. • Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements could limit our ability to achieve our plans. We require continued access to capital; a significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. • Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans. We encounter significant competition in connection with our lending and retail operations from other pawnshops, cash advance companies and other forms of financial institutions and other retailers, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than us. Significant increases in these competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number or quality of signature loan and pawn loans or our ability to liquidate forfeited collateral at acceptable margins. • One person holds voting control of our stock and controls the outcome of all matters requiring a vote of stockholders, which may influence the value of our publicly traded stock. Mr. Phillip E. Cohen controls all of our Class B Voting Common Stock. He controls the outcome of all issues requiring a vote of stockholders, including the election of our directors. • We face other risks discussed under Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. 19 Table of Contents 