risk factors that could cause results or events to differ from current expectations. • A significant or sudden decrease in gold values may have a material impact on our earnings and financial position. Pawn service charges, sales proceeds and our ability to liquidate excess jewelry inventory at an acceptable margin are dependent upon gold values. We periodically change our lending guidelines on jewelry in response to gold values and other market factors, such as competitor loan values. At September 30, 2009, the pure gold content of jewelry comprised approximately 50% of the value of our pawn loan portfolio and 30% of the value of our total inventory. Gold scrapping revenues were $118.9 million and gross profit from gold scrapping was $41.9 million in fiscal 2009. The impact on our financial position and results of operations of a hypothetical decrease in gold values cannot be reasonably estimated because the market and competitive response to changes in gold values is not known; however, a significant decline in gold values could result in decreases in sales, sales margins, and pawn service charge revenues. • Changes in laws and regulations affecting our financial services and products could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our financial products and services are subject to extensive regulation under various federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Legislative and regulatory efforts have increasingly concentrated on attempts to regulate, prohibit, or severely restrict our financial services and products, particularly payday loans, by limiting the number of loans a borrower could obtain, establishing rates that effectively prohibit our ability to operate profitably, or restricting or effectively eliminating the availability of our products and services to particular groups such as the military. Several bills have been introduced in the United States Congress that would impose rate caps which would effectively prohibit many cash advance products, including payday loans. Additionally, the proposed Consumer Financial Protection Agency Act of 2009 would, if enacted in its current form, create a regulator that would have the authority and power to regulate non-bank providers of consumer financial services, including cash advance and pawn businesses, and to examine the businesses that offer such products. Adverse legislation could also be introduced in any state in which we operate. It is possible that legislation which could restrict fees or product features or availability may be considered in upcoming legislative sessions in several of the states in which we operate. In Mexico, various restrictions and disclosure requirements are proposed from time to time. Many of the legislative and regulatory efforts that are adverse to the short-term consumer loan industry are the result of the negative characterization of the industry by some consumer advocacy groups and some media reports. We can give no assurance that there will not be further negative characterizations of our industry or that legislative or regulatory efforts to eliminate or restrict the availability of certain short-term loan products, including payday loans, will not be successful despite significant customer demand for such products. Such efforts, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. • Prolonged periods of economic recession and unemployment could adversely affect our lending and retail businesses. All of our businesses, like other businesses, are subject to fluctuations based on varying economic conditions. Economic conditions, as well as general consumer confidence, affect the demand for our retail products and the ability and willingness of our customers to utilize our loan products and services. Signature loans require the customer to have a 15 verifiable recurring source of income. Consequently, we may experience reduced demand for signature loan products during prolonged periods of high unemployment. In addition, weakened economic conditions may also result in an increase in loan defaults and loan losses. Even in the current economic environment, we have been able to efficiently manage our bad debt through our collection efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our current bad debt rates or that we will not experience increasing difficulty in collecting defaulted loans. • A significant portion of our short-term consumer loan revenues and profitability is dependent upon the ability and willingness of unaffiliated lenders to make loans to our customers. In Texas, where over half of our short-term consumer loan stores are located, we do not make loans to customers, but assist customers in arranging loans with unaffiliated lenders. Our short-term consumer loan business could be adversely affected if (a) we were to lose our current relationships with unaffiliated lenders and were unable to establish a relationship with another unaffiliated lender who was willing and able to make short-term loans to our Texas customers or (b) the unaffiliated lenders are unable to obtain capital or other sources of funding at appropriate rates. • Achievement of our growth objectives is dependent upon our ability to open and acquire new stores. Our expansion strategy includes opening new stores and acquiring existing stores. The success of this strategy is subject to numerous factors that cannot be predicted or controlled, such as the availability of acceptable locations, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses, the availability of attractive acquisition candidates and our ability to attract, train and retain qualified associates. Failure to achieve our expansion goals would adversely affect our prospects and future results of operations. • Changes in the business, regulatory, or political climate in Mexico or Canada could adversely affect our operations and growth plans in those countries. Our growth plans include significant expansion in Mexico and Canada. Changes in the business, regulatory or political climate in either of those countries, or significant fluctuations in currency exchange rates could affect our ability to expand or continue our operations there, which could have a material adverse impact on our prospects, results of operations and cash flows. • Fluctuations in our sales, pawn loan balances, sales margins, pawn redemption rates and loan default and collection rates could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. We regularly experience fluctuations in a variety of these operating metrics. Changes in any of these metrics, as might be caused by changes in the economic environment, competitive pressures, changes in customers’ tastes and preferences or a significant decrease in gold prices, could materially and adversely affect our profitability and ability to achieve our planned results of operations. • Changes in our liquidity and capital requirements or in banks’ abilities to lend to us could limit our ability to achieve our plans. We require continued access to capital. A significant reduction in cash flows from operations or the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve our planned growth and operating results. We currently have a credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, Union Bank of California, U.S. Bank, BBVA Compass Bank and Allied Irish Bank. If one of those lenders is unable to provide funding in accordance with its commitment, our available credit could be reduced by the amount of that lender’s commitment. • Changes in competition from various sources could have a material adverse impact on our ability to achieve our plans. We encounter significant competition from other pawnshops, cash advance companies, credit service organizations, online lenders, consumer finance companies and other forms of financial institutions and other retailers, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Significant increases in the number or size of competitors or other changes in competitive influences could adversely affect our operations through a decrease in the number or quality of loan products and services we are able to provide or our ability to liquidate forfeited collateral at acceptable margins. 16 • Infrastructure failures and breaches in data security could harm our business. We depend on our information technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. If a problem, such as a computer virus, intentional disruption by a third party, natural disaster, telecommunications system failure or lost connectivity impairs our infrastructure, we may be unable to process transactions or otherwise carry on our business. An infrastructure disruption could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers and revenue, result in the unintentional disclosure of company or customer information, and require us to incur significant expense to eliminate these problems and address related data security concerns. • One person beneficially owns all of our voting stock and controls the outcome of all matters requiring a vote of stockholders. Phillip E. Cohen is the beneficial owner of all of our Class B Voting Common Stock and controls the outcome of all issues requiring a vote of stockholders. All of our publicly traded stock is non-voting stock. Consequently, stockholders other than Mr. Cohen have no vote with respect to the election of directors or any other matter requiring a vote of stockholders. • We face other risks discussed under Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 