D. Risk Factors Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. Our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected due to any of the following risks. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 2 Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We are dependent on a limited number of product families and a decrease in revenues from these products would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We derive our revenues from sales of application platform and integration products primarily under our uniPaaS and iBOLT brands, and from related professional services, software maintenance and technical support as well as from other IT professional services, which include IT consulting and staffing services. Our future growth depends heavily on our ability to effectively develop and sell new products developed by us or acquired from third parties as well as add new features to existing products. A decrease in revenues from our principal products would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a history of quarterly fluctuations in our results of operations and expect these fluctuations to continue. We have experienced, and in the future may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: · The size and timing of orders; · The high level of competition that we encounter; · The timing of our product introductions or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products; · Market acceptance of our new products, applications and services; · The purchasing patterns and budget cycles of our customers and end-users; · The mix of product sales; · Exchange rate fluctuations; · General economic conditions; and · The integration of newly acquired businesses. Our customers ordinarily require the delivery of our products promptly after we accept their orders. With the exception of contracts for services, we usually do not have a backlog of orders for our products. Consequently, revenues from our products in any quarter depend on orders received and products provided by us and accepted by the customers in that quarter. The deferral of the placing and acceptance of any large order from one quarter to another could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the former quarter. Our customers sometimes require an acceptance test for services we provide and as a result, we may have a significant backlog of orders for our services. Our revenues from services depend on orders received and services provided by us and accepted by our customers in that quarter. If sales in any quarter do not increase correspondingly or if we do not reduce our expenses in response to level or declining revenues in a timely fashion, our financial results for that quarter may be materially adversely affected. For these reasons, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on the results of our operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. Unfavorable national and global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. During periods of slowing economic activity our customers may reduce their demand for our products, technology and professional services, which would reduce our sales, and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, this could result in longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition for our products and services. We could also be exposed to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable, which are not covered by collateral. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 3 Our revenues from Japan, which accounted for 12% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, may be adversely affected as result of the recent national disaster in Japan and pending or future purchases may be delayed or cancelled as a result. We may encounter difficulties in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of recent business acquisitions. We expect to make additional acquisitions in the future that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. In January 2010, we purchased a consulting and staffing services business of a U.S.-based IT services company for approximately $13.7 million to be paid over a three year period. The acquired business provides a comprehensive range of consulting and staffing services for telecom, network communications and the IT industry. The business employs approximately 233 persons with offices located in Dallas, Texas. We may make additional acquisitions in the future. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and enhance existing products through acquisitions of other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: · Difficulties in integrating the operations, systems, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies; · Diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; · Potential difficulties in completing projects associated with in-process research and development; · Difficulties in entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; · Initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners; · Insufficient revenue to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; and · The potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of acquisition plans. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control and no assurance can be given that our future acquisitions will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could materially harm our business and operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to a failure to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely fashion or that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. The revenues of our principal IT professional services subsidiary are dependent upon one key customer and a significant decrease in revenues from such customer could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The revenues of our principal IT professional services subsidiary are dependent upon Ericsson Inc., or Ericsson, which is currently our largest customer, accounting for 29% of our total revenues in 2010. We do not know if, or for how much longer, Ericsson will continue to purchase the services of such subsidiary. A significant decrease in revenues from Ericsson may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 4 We derive a significant portion of our revenues from independent distributors who are under no obligation to purchase our products and the loss of such independent distributors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We sell our products through our direct sales representatives, as well as through third parties that use our technology to develop and sell solutions for their customers, referred to as ISVs or Magic Software Providers, or MSPs, and also through SIs. These independent distributors then resell our products to end-users. We are dependent upon the acceptance of our products by our independent distributors and their active marketing and sales efforts. Typically, our arrangements with our independent distributors do not require them to purchase specified amounts of products or prevent them from selling non-competitive products. The independent distributors may not continue, or may not give a high priority to, marketing and supporting our products. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by changes in the financial condition, business, marketing strategies, local and global economic conditions, or results of our independent distributors. We may lose independent distributors on whom we currently depend and we may not succeed in developing new distribution channels which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If any of our distribution relationships are terminated, we may not be successful in replacing them on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, we will need to develop new sales channels for new products, and we may not succeed in doing so. Any changes in our distribution and sales channels, or our inability to establish effective distribution and sales channels for new markets, could adversely impact our ability to sell our products and result in a loss of revenues and profits. Changes in the ratio of our revenues generated from different revenue elements may adversely affect our gross profit margins. We derive our revenues from the sale of software licenses, related professional services, maintenance and technical support as well as from other IT professional services. Our gross margin is affected by the proportion of our revenues generated from the sale of each of those elements of our revenues. Our revenues from the sale of our software licenses, related professional services, maintenance and technical support have higher gross margins than our revenues from the sale of IT professional services. In 2010, as a result of our acquisition of two IT consulting and staffing services businesses, the percentage of our revenues derived from IT professional services increased significantly compared to prior years. If the relative proportion of our revenues from the sale of IT professional services continues to increase as a percentage of our total revenues, our gross profit margins will decline in the future. Our software licenses revenues include the sale of the third party software license sales, which have a lower gross margin than the sales of our software products. Any increase in the portion of third party software license sales out of total license sales will decrease our gross profit margin. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from IT professional services. Our ability to attract and retain qualified computer professionals may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of three of our subsidiaries is dependent upon their ability to attract and retain qualified computer professionals to serve as temporary IT personnel. Competition for the limited number of qualified professionals with a working knowledge of certain sophisticated computer languages is intense. We compete for technical personnel with other providers of technical IT consulting and staffing services, systems integrators, providers of outsourcing services, computer systems consultants, clients and temporary personnel agencies. A shortage of, and significant competition for, software professionals with the skills and experience necessary to perform the services offered by these subsidiaries may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the ability of our subsidiaries to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business for their contract IT professional services operations depends, in large part, on their ability to hire and retain technical personnel with the IT skills that keep pace with continuing changes in software evolution, industry standards and technologies, and client preferences. Demand for qualified professionals conversant with certain 5 technologies may outstrip supply as new and additional skills are required to keep pace with evolving computer technology or as competition for technical personnel increases. Increasing demand for qualified personnel could also result in increased expenses to hire and retain qualified technical personnel and could adversely affect our profit margins. Our widespread operations may strain our management, operational and financial resources and could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our widespread operations have significantly strained our management, operational and financial resources in the past. Any future growth may increase this strain. To manage future growth effectively, we must: · Expand our operational, management, financial, marketing and research and development functions; · Train, motivate, manage and retain qualified employees; and · Hire additional personnel. We may not succeed in managing future growth, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties with our international operations and sales which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While our principal executive offices are located in Israel, 92% of our sales in 2008, 93% of our sales in 2009 and 95% of our sales in 2010 were generated in other countries. This subjects us to many risks inherent to international business activities, including: · Limitations and disruptions resulting from the imposition of government controls; · Changes in regulatory requirements; · Export license requirements; · Economic or political instability; · Trade restrictions; · Changes in tariffs; · Currency fluctuations; · Difficulties in the collection of receivables; · Foreign tax consequences; · Greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; and · Difficulties in managing overseas subsidiaries and international operations. We may encounter significant difficulties in connection with the sale of our products and services in international markets as a result of one or more of these factors and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in the world markets in which we conduct business could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, our functional currency. However, over 44% of our revenues are derived from sales outside the United States, particularly Europe, Japan, Israel, the United Kingdom and South Africa. We also maintain substantial non-U.S. dollar balances of assets, including cash and accounts 6 receivable, and liabilities, including accounts payable. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which we do business relative to the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, by decreasing the U.S. dollar value of assets held in other currencies and increasing the U.S. dollar amount of liabilities payable in other currencies, or by decreasing the U.S. dollar value of our revenues in other currencies and increasing the U.S. dollar amount of our expenses in other currencies. Even if we use derivatives or other instruments to hedge part or all of our exposures from time to time, they may not effectively eliminate such risk, if at all. Declines in our share price and/or operating performance could result in a future impairment of our goodwill or long-lived assets. We assess potential impairments of goodwill annually and whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We assess potential impairments of our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, customer relationships and capitalized software, whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In the past, our share price, and consequently our market capitalization, have experienced significant fluctuations and may experience significant fluctuations in the future. During 2008, our share price dropped by 32%, while in 2009 and in 2010, it increased by 78% and 170%, respectively. If the value of our market capitalization falls below the value of our shareholders’ equity, it might indicate that an impairment of goodwill is required. We determine the value of each of our reporting units using the income approach, which utilizes a discounted cash flow model, as we believe that this approach best approximates our fair value at this time. Our ability to reconcile the gap between our market capitalization and aggregate fair value of the reporting units depends on various factors, some of which are qualitative, such as estimated control premium that an investor would be willing to pay for a controlling interest in us, while others involve management judgment. If our market capitalization falls below our shareholders’ equity, or actual results of operations materially differ from our modeling estimates, we may be required to record a non-cash impairment charge of our goodwill and/or other long-lived assets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on the carrying value of our goodwill and/or our long-lived assets on our balance sheet. We face intense competition in the software as a service, or SaaS, market for our application platform as well as in the process and business integration technologies and IT services market. This competition could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete with other companies in the areas of application platforms, business integration and business process management, or BPM, tools, and in the applications and services markets in which we operate. The enhancement of the SaaS market increases the competition in these areas, and some of our competitors claim to offer a fully automated eDeveloper conversion process, converting eDeveloper based applications to .NET based applications. We expect that competition will increase in the future, both with respect to our technology, applications and services which we currently offer and applications and services which we and other vendors are developing. Increased competition, direct and indirect, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our existing and potential competitors are larger companies, have substantially greater resources than us, including financial, technological, marketing, skilled human resources and distribution capabilities, and enjoy greater market recognition than us. We may not be able to differentiate our products and/or services from those of our competitors, offer our products as part of integrated systems or solutions to the same extent as our competitors, or successfully develop or introduce new products that are more cost-effective, or offer better performance than our competitors. Failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 We face intense competition in the strategic IT consulting and staffing services market. This competition could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The technical IT consulting and staffing services industry is highly competitive and fragmented and has low barriers to entry. We, through three of our subsidiaries in the United States, compete for potential clients with providers of outsourcing services, systems integrators, computer systems consultants, other providers of technical IT consulting services and, to a lesser extent, temporary personnel agencies. We compete for technical personnel with other providers of technical IT consulting and staffing services, systems integrators, providers of outsourcing services, computer systems consultants, clients and temporary personnel agencies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in obtaining and retaining clients are accurate assessment of clients’ requirements, timely assignment of technical employees with appropriate skills and the price of services. We believe that the principal competitive factors in attracting qualified technical personnel are compensation, availability, quality and variety of projects and schedule flexibility. We expect competition to increase and we may not be able to remain competitive. Some of our existing and potential competitors are larger companies, having substantially greater resources than us, including financial, technological, marketing, skilled human resources and distribution capabilities, and enjoy greater market recognition than us. We may not be able to differentiate our strategic IT consulting and staffing services from those of our competitors, or offer better performance than our competitors. Failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not succeed in increasing our market share in the business and process integration markets with our iBOLT products, or leverage our advantage in the rich internet application, mobile, cloud and SaaS enabled application platform fields, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our iBOLT Integration Suite provides business integration and process management with a particular focus on enterprise business applications. iBOLT allows the integration and interoperability of diverse solutions, including legacy applications, in a quick and efficient manner. Since we launched iBOLT in 2003, we have continued to develop this product and enhance it, releasing successive versions over the years (the current version is 3.2). In 2005, we started a line of special editions of iBOLT tailored for specific application packages, and we have released several such special editions, for SAP, Oracle JD Edwards, Salesforce.com, IBM i, HL7, Lotus Notes and Lotus Domino, Microsoft Dynamics CRM and Microsoft Sharepoint. The business integration and BPM markets in which we operate are extremely competitive and subject to rapid changes. Our competitors utilize varying approaches to the provision of technology to business integration and BPM markets. We may not have the resources, skills and product variety required to successfully increase our market share in these markets. In addition, even if we succeed in convincing prospective customers and the market that our products are effective and provide real business benefits, our target customers may not choose them due to technical, cost, support or other reasons. Our future success will be largely dependent on the acceptance of future releases of our core technologies in the areas of application platforms, mobile development and platform as a service, or PaaS, solutions, and if we are unsuccessful with these efforts, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. In 2008, we released a new generation of our eDeveloper application platform, branded uniPaaS. uniPaaS is compatible with previous versions of eDeveloper, adds cloud-based capabilities including rich internet applications, or RIAs, and mobile, and in the future will include PaaS capabilities. Our future success will be in great measure dependent on the continued acceptance of uniPaaS. The continued acceptance of this product relies in part on the continued acceptance and growth of cloud markets including RIAs, mobile and SaaS, for which uniPaaS is particularly useful and advantageous. We will need to continue to update the uniPaas product and if a new version of such product is not accepted, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 8 Our efforts to increase our worldwide presence may not be profitable, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success in becoming a stronger competitor in the sale of application platform and integration solutions is dependent upon our ability to increase our sales in all our markets, including, but not limited to the United States, Europe, Japan, Asia and South Africa. Our efforts to increase our penetration into these markets are subject to risks inherent to such markets, including the high cost of doing business in such locations. Our efforts may be costly and they may not result in profits, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Rapid technological changes may adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and services, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We compete in a market that is characterized by rapid technological change. The introduction of new technologies and devices could render existing products and services obsolete and unmarketable and could exert price pressures on our products and services. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by: · Supporting existing and emerging hardware, software, databases and networking platforms; and · Developing and introducing new and enhanced software development technology and applications that keeps pace with such technological developments, emerging new markets and changing customer requirements. If release dates of any future products or enhancements are delayed or if, when released, they fail to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our products have a lengthy sales cycle which could adversely affect our revenues. Our customers typically use our technology to develop and deploy as well as integrate applications that are critical to their businesses. As a result, the licensing and implementation of our technology generally involves a significant commitment of attention and resources by prospective customers. Because of the long approval process that typically accompanies strategic initiatives or capital expenditures by companies, our sales process is often delayed, with little or no control over any delays encountered by us. Our sales cycle can be further extended for sales made through third party distributors. Our products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of our products and expose us to difficulties in the collection of receivables and to litigation. Despite quality assurance testing performed by us, as well as by our partners and end-users who participate in our beta-testing programs, errors may be found in our software products or in applications developed with our technology. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that a significant percentage of the applications developed with our technology were and are likely to continue to be developed by our ISV partners and SIs over whom we exercise no supervision or control. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products, as well as difficulties in the collection of receivables and litigation, and could damage our reputation. The professional liability insurance that we maintain may not be sufficient against potential claims. Our standard license agreement with our customers contains provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims that may not be effective or enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Accordingly, we could fail to realize revenues and suffer damage to our reputation as a result of, or in defense of, a substantial claim. 9 Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of our proprietary technology by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depend in large part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trade secret and copyright laws and confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment-of-inventions agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We do not have any patents. Our policy is to require employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement, and our competitors might independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection for intellectual property rights than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. We are subject to litigation relating to intellectual property infringement. Third parties have in the past, and may in the future, claim that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights and could harm our business. From time to time third parties have in the past, and may in the future, assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated a patent or infringed upon a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Any infringement claim, even one without merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources to defend any such claims. In February 2010, a U.S. company filed a lawsuit against us and one of our subsidiaries, claiming an alleged breach by us and the subsidiary of its intellectual property rights in connection with one of our products. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and any court ruling against us could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the event our business grows in the future, we will need to hire additional qualified personnel. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. We may not be able to attract the personnel we need. Any loss of members of senior management or key technical personnel, or any failure to attract or retain highly qualified employees as needed, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we are controlled by Formula Systems (1985) Ltd. and Asseco Poland S.A., investors will not be able to affect the outcome of shareholder votes. Formula Systems (1985) Ltd., or Formula Systems (symbol: FORTY), an Israeli company whose shares trade on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, directly owns 18,560,352, or 51.3%, of our outstanding ordinary shares. Asseco Poland S.A., or Asseco, a Polish company listed on Warsaw Stock Exchange, owns 50.2% of the outstanding shares of Formula Systems. Although transactions between us and our controlling shareholders are subject to special approvals under Israeli law (see Item 6C. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees - Board Practices - Disclosure of Personal Interests of a Controlling Shareholder; Approval of Transactions with Controlling Shareholders”), Formula Systems and Asseco will be able to exercise control over our operations and business strategy and affairs, including any determinations with respect to potential mergers or other business combinations involving us, our acquisition or disposition of assets, our incurrence of indebtedness, our issuance of any additional ordinary shares or other equity securities, our repurchase or redemption of ordinary shares and our payment of dividends. Similarly, Formula Systems and Asseco will be able to control most matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors (subject to a special majority required for the election of outside directors). Such concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition or a change in control of us. 10 If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the reliability of our financial statements may be questioned and our share price may suffer. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and on our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal control and procedures for financial reporting, which started in connection with our 2007 Annual Report on Form 20-F, have resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been very volatile in the past and may continue to be susceptible to significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future. During 2008, our share price dropped by 32%, while in 2009 and in 2010 it increased by 78% and 170%, respectively. Our market price and volume may fluctuate in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · Quarterly variations in our operating results; · Changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · Announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · Changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · Announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · Additions or departures of key personnel; · The public’s response to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Israeli Securities Authority; · Future sales of our ordinary shares by our directors, officers and significant shareholders; · Political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events; · Other events or factors in any of the markets in which we operate, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism, natural disasters or responses to such events; and · General trends of the stock markets. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of ordinary shares of software companies have been extremely volatile. Stock prices of many software companies have often fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. 11 In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against registrants following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. The trading volume of our shares has been low in the past and may be low in the future, resulting in lower than expected market prices for our shares. Our shares have traded at low volumes in the past and may trade at low volumes in the future for reasons that may be related or unrelated to our performance. This may result in a lack of liquidity, which could negatively affect the market price for our ordinary shares We have not established a dividend policy and may not pay cash dividends in the future. Although we paid a cash dividend in January 2010, we did not pay any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the last five fiscal years and we do not currently have a dividend distribution policy in place. Future dividend distributions are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and tax implications of dividend distributions on our income, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The distribution of dividends also may be limited by Israeli law, which permits the distribution of dividends only out of profits (as defined by Israeli law) or otherwise upon the permission of the court. You should not rely on an investment in our company if you require dividend income from your investment. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded primarily on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and NIS on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. If U.S. tax authorities were to treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” that could have adverse consequences on U.S. holders. Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents face income tax risks. There is a risk that we will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” commonly referred to as PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and would likely cause a reduction in the value of our shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will generally be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares and such U.S. holders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. United States residents should carefully read “Item 10E. Additional Information - Taxation, United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares. 12 Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our executive offices and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. Although most of our sales are made to customers outside Israel, we are influenced to a limited extent by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. In recent years, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. Ongoing or future violence between Israel and the Palestinians, armed conflicts, terrorist activities, tension along Israel’s northern borders, or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could significantly harm our results of operations. Recent popular uprisings in various countries in the Middle East are affecting the political stability of those countries. Such instability may lead to a deterioration in the political and trade relationships that exist between the State of Israel and these countries. In addition, such instability may affect the global economy and marketplace as a result of changes in oil and gas prices. Since our executive offices and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel, any such events that affect the State of Israel may impact us in unpredictable ways. If our operations are significantly impacted by such events, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. We currently have the ability to benefit from government tax benefits, which may be cancelled or reduced in the future. We are eligible to receive tax benefits under Government of Israel programs. In order to maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet specific conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits we could receive may be cancelled. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. We are incorporated in Israel and some of our directors, executive officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report reside outside the United States. Service of process upon them may be difficult to effect within the United States. Furthermore, most of our assets and the assets of some of our executive officers and some of the 13 experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us or any of them in the United States, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws may not be collectible in the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. It also may be difficult for you to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. For more information regarding the enforceability of civil liabilities against us, our directors and executive officers and the Israeli experts named in this prospectus, including the terms under which certain judgments may be enforced by an Israeli court, please see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or complicating a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes at the general meeting with respect to, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and actions and transactions involving interests of officers, directors or other interested parties which require the shareholders’ general meeting’s approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of our shareholders, or who has, by virtue of the company’s articles of association, the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company, or any other power with respect to the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. The Israeli Companies Law does not establish criteria for determining whether or not a shareholder has acted in good faith. Moreover, the law is relatively new and there is no case law available on the duty of a non-controlling shareholder to act in good faith. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Listing Rules. We follow Israeli law and practice instead of The NASDAQ Listing Rules regarding the requirement that our independent directors have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, the composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Listing Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% 14 or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 