Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, results of operations or financial condition. See also “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.” Deteriorating economic and financial conditions could adversely impact our financial condition and results. Economic and financial conditions deteriorated sharply in the latter part of 2008, and these deteriorating conditions are continuing in 2009. The effects could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. a. As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. The current economic downturn could affect the advertising and marketing services industry more severely than other industries, and any recovery of the advertising and marketing services industry could lag that of the economy generally. In the past, some clients have responded to weakening economic conditions with reductions to their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. This pattern may recur in the future. A decrease in our revenue would negatively affect our financial results, including a reduction of our estimates of free cash flow from operations. b. If our clients experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results. We have a diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. The current unfavorable economic and financial conditions that are impacting most sectors of the economy could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable. If these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of goodwill, financing agreement covenant violations or reduced liquidity. Our largest single client accounted for approximately 19% of revenue in 2008. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS MDC competes for clients in highly competitive industries. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment in an industry characterized by numerous firms of varying sizes, with no single firm or group of firms having a dominant position in the marketplace. Competitive factors include creative reputation, management, personal relationships, quality and reliability of service and expertise in particular niche areas of the marketplace. In addition, because a firm’s principal asset is its people, barriers to entry are minimal, and relatively small firms are, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s business from a larger competitor. While many of MDC’s client relationships are long-standing, companies put their advertising and marketing services businesses up for competitive review from time to time, including at times when clients enter into strategic transactions. To the extent that the Company fails to maintain existing clients or attract new clients, MDC’s business, financial condition and operating results may be affected in a materially adverse manner. The loss of lines of credit under our Financing Agreement could adversely affect MDC’s liquidity and our ability to implement MDC’s acquisition strategy and fund any put options if exercised. As of December 31, 2008, MDC had utilized approximately $144.4 million of its Financing Agreement in the form of borrowings and letters of credit. MDC uses amounts available under the Financing Agreement, together with cash flow from operations, to fund its working capital needs, to fund the exercise of put option obligations and to fund our strategy of making selective acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. The Company is currently in compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the Financing Agreement, and management believes that the Company will be in compliance with covenants over the next twelve months. If, however, events were to occur which result in MDC losing all or a substantial portion of its available credit under the Financing Agreement, MDC would be required to seek other sources of liquidity. In addition, if MDC were unable to replace this source of liquidity, then MDC’s ability to fund its working capital needs and any contingent obligations with respect to put options would be materially adversely affected. MDC may not realize the benefits it expects from past acquisitions or acquisitions MDC may make in the future. MDC’s business strategy includes ongoing efforts to engage in material acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. MDC intends to finance these acquisitions by using available cash from operations and through incurrence of debt or bridge financing, either of which may increase its leverage ratios, or by issuing equity, which may have a dilutive impact on its existing shareholders. At any given time MDC may be engaged in a number of discussions that may result in one or more material acquisitions. These opportunities require confidentiality and may involve negotiations that require quick responses by MDC. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, the announcement of any such transaction may lead to increased volatility in the trading price of its securities. The success of acquisitions or strategic investments depends on the effective integration of newly acquired businesses into MDC’s current operations. Such integration is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel and clients, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired company. MDC may not realize the strategic and financial benefits that it expects from any of its past acquisitions, or any future acquisitions. MDC’s business could be adversely affected if it loses key clients. MDC’s strategy has been to acquire ownership stakes in diverse marketing communications businesses to minimize the effects that might arise from the loss of any one client or executive. The loss of one or more clients could materially affect the results of the individual operating companies and the Company as a whole. Management succession at our operating units is very important to the ongoing results of the Company because, as in any service business, the success of a particular agency is dependent upon the leadership of key 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS executives and management personnel. If key executives were to leave our operating units, the relationships that MDC has with its clients could be adversely affected. MDC’s ability to generate new business from new and existing clients may be limited. To increase its revenues, MDC needs to obtain additional clients or generate demand for additional services from existing clients. MDC’s ability to generate initial demand for its services from new clients and additional demand from existing clients is subject to such clients’ and potential clients’ requirements, pre-existing vendor relationships, financial condition, strategic plans and internal resources, as well as the quality of MDC’s employees, services and reputation and the breadth of its services. To the extent MDC cannot generate new business from new and existing clients due to these limitations, it will limit MDC’s ability to grow its business and to increase its revenues. MDC’s business could be adversely affected if it loses or fails to attract key employees. Employees, including creative, research, media, account and practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among MDC’s most important assets. An important aspect of MDC’s competitiveness is its ability to retain key employee and management personnel. Compensation for these key employees is an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and MDC may not offer a level of compensation sufficient to attract and retain these key employees. If MDC fails to hire and retain a sufficient number of these key employees, it may not be able to compete effectively. If key executives were to leave our operating units, the relationships that MDC has with its clients could be adversely affected. MDC is exposed to the risk of client defaults. The Company often incurs expenses on behalf of its clients for productions and in order to secure a variety of media time and space, in exchange for which it receives a fee. The difference between the gross cost of the production and media and the net revenue earned by us can be significant. While MDC takes precautions against default on payment for these services (such as advance billing of clients) and have historically had a very low incidence of default, MDC is still exposed to the risk of significant uncollectible receivables from our clients. This risk is enhanced by the current distress in the credit markets which could impact our client’s ability to finance their businesses. MDC’s results of operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. Although MDC’s financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a portion of its revenues and operating costs are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, may affect MDC’s financial results and competitive position. Goodwill may become impaired. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP resulting from our acquisition activities, which principally represents the specialized know-how of the workforce at the agencies we have acquired. We test, at least annually, the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, as discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows. While we have concluded, for each year presented in our financial statements, that our goodwill relating to continuing operations is not impaired, future events could cause us to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation may become impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. MDC is subject to regulations that could restrict its activities or negatively impact its revenues. Advertising and marketing communications businesses are subject to government regulation, both domestic and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency in the United States on the part of advertisers to resort to litigation and self-regulatory bodies to challenge comparative advertising on the grounds that the advertising 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS is false and deceptive. Moreover, there has recently been an expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures, and warning requirements with respect to advertising for certain products and usage of personally identifiable information. Representatives within government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and consequently MDC’s revenues. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 