Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, results of operations or financial condition. See also “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.” Future economic and financial conditions could adversely impact our financial condition and results. Economic and financial conditions deteriorated sharply in the latter part of 2008, and these deteriorating conditions continued in 2009 and 2010. The pace of the global economic recovery is uneven and a future economic downturn could renew reductions in client spending levels and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position in 2011. a. As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. The recent economic downturn affected the advertising and marketing services industry more severely than other industries. In the past, some clients have responded to weakening economic conditions with reductions to their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. This pattern may recur in the future. Further decreases in our revenue would negatively affect our financial results, including a reduction of our estimates of free cash flow from operations. b. If our clients experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results. We have a diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. The recent unfavorable economic and financial conditions that have impacted many sectors of the economy could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable. If these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of goodwill, credit agreement covenant violations or reduced liquidity. Our 10 largest clients (measured by revenue generated) accounted for 37% of revenue in 2010. c. Conditions in the credit markets could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Turmoil in the credit markets or a contraction in the availability of credit would make it more difficult for businesses to meet their capital requirements and could lead clients to change their financial relationship with their vendors, including us. If that were to occur, it could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. MDC competes for clients in highly competitive industries. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment in an industry characterized by numerous firms of varying sizes, with no single firm or group of firms having a dominant position in the marketplace. MDC is, however, smaller than several of its larger industry competitors. Competitive factors include creative reputation, management, personal relationships, quality and reliability of service and expertise in particular niche areas of the marketplace. In addition, because a firm’s principal asset is its people, barriers to entry are minimal, and relatively small firms are, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s business from a larger competitor. While many of MDC’s client relationships are long-standing, companies put their advertising and marketing services businesses up for competitive review from time to time, including at times when clients enter into strategic transactions. From year to year, the identities of MDC’s 10 largest customers may change, as a result of client losses and additions and other factors; however, the proportion of MDC’s business derived from its 10 largest clients does not vary significantly from year to year. To the extent that the Company fails to maintain existing clients or attract new clients, MDC’s business, financial condition and operating results may be affected in a materially adverse manner. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS The loss of lines of credit under our WF Credit Facility, and compliance with the covenants in the indenture governing our 11% notes, could adversely affect MDC’s liquidity and our ability to implement MDC’s acquisition strategy and fund any put options if exercised. MDC uses amounts available under the WF Credit Facility, together with cash flow from operations, to fund its working capital needs, to fund the exercise of put option obligations and to fund our strategy of making selective acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. The Company is currently in compliance with all of the terms and conditions of the WF Credit Facility. If, however, events were to occur, which result in MDC losing all or a substantial portion of its available credit under the WF Credit Facility, MDC could be required to seek other sources of liquidity. In addition, if MDC were unable to replace this source of liquidity, then MDC’s ability to fund its working capital needs and any contingent obligations with respect to put options would be materially adversely affected. MDC may not realize the benefits it expects from past acquisitions or acquisitions MDC may make in the future. MDC’s business strategy includes ongoing efforts to engage in material acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. MDC intends to finance these acquisitions by using available cash from operations and through incurrence of debt or bridge financing, either of which may increase its leverage ratios, or by issuing equity, which may have a dilutive impact on its existing shareholders. At any given time MDC may be engaged in a number of discussions that may result in one or more material acquisitions. These opportunities require confidentiality and may involve negotiations that require quick responses by MDC. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, the announcement of any such transaction may lead to increased volatility in the trading price of its securities. The success of acquisitions or strategic investments depends on the effective integration of newly acquired businesses into MDC’s current operations. Such integration is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel and clients, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired company. MDC may not realize the strategic and financial benefits that it expects from any of its past acquisitions, or any future acquisitions. MDC’s business could be adversely affected if it loses key clients. MDC’s strategy has been to acquire ownership stakes in diverse marketing communications businesses to minimize the effects that might arise from the loss of any one client or executive. The loss of one or more clients could materially affect the results of the individual operating companies and the Company as a whole. Management succession at our operating units is very important to the ongoing results of the Company because, as in any service business, the success of a particular agency is dependent upon the leadership of key executives and management personnel. If key executives were to leave our operating units, the relationships that MDC has with its clients could be adversely affected. MDC’s ability to generate new business from new and existing clients may be limited. To increase its revenues, MDC needs to obtain additional clients or generate demand for additional services from existing clients. MDC’s ability to generate initial demand for its services from new clients and additional demand from existing clients is subject to such clients’ and potential clients’ requirements, pre-existing vendor relationships, financial condition, strategic plans and internal resources, as well as the quality of MDC’s employees, services and reputation and the breadth of its services. To the extent MDC cannot generate new business from new and existing clients due to these limitations. MDC’s ability to grow its business and to increase its revenues will be limited. MDC’s business could be adversely affected if it loses or fails to attract key employees. Employees, including creative, research, media, account and practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among MDC’s most important assets. An important aspect of MDC’s competitiveness is its ability to retain key employee and management personnel. Compensation for these key 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS employees is an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and MDC may not offer a level of compensation sufficient to attract and retain these key employees. If MDC fails to hire and retain a sufficient number of these key employees, it may not be able to compete effectively. If key executives were to leave our operating units, the relationships that MDC has with its clients could be adversely affected. MDC is exposed to the risk of client defaults. MDC’s agencies often incurs expenses on behalf of its clients for productions and in order to secure a variety of media time and space, in exchange for which it receives a fee. The difference between the gross cost of the production and media and the net revenue earned by us can be significant. While MDC takes precautions against default on payment for these services (such as credit analysis and advance billing of clients) and has historically had a very low incidence of default, MDC is still exposed to the risk of significant uncollectible receivables from our clients. MDC’s results of operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. Although MDC’s financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a portion of its revenues and operating costs are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, may affect MDC’s financial results and competitive position. Goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP resulting from our acquisition activities, which principally represents the specialized know-how of the workforce at the agencies we have acquired. We test, at least annually, the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, as discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows. While we have concluded, for each year presented in our financial statements, that our goodwill relating to continuing operations is not impaired, future events could cause us to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation may become impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. MDC is subject to regulations that could restrict its activities or negatively impact its revenues. Advertising and marketing communications businesses are subject to government regulation, both domestic and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency in the United States on the part of advertisers to resort to litigation and self-regulatory bodies to challenge comparative advertising on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive. Moreover, there has recently been an expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures, and warning requirements with respect to advertising for certain products and usage of personally identifiable information. Representatives within government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and consequently MDC’s revenues. In addition, laws and regulations related to user privacy, use of personal information and internet tracking technologies have been proposed or enacted in the United States and certain international markets. These laws and regulations could affect the acceptance of the internet as an advertising medium. These actions could affect our business and reduce demand for certain of our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. The indenture governing the 11% Notes and the WF Credit Facility governing our secured line of credit contain various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. The indenture governing the 11% Notes and the WF Credit Facility governing our lines of credit contain various provisions that limit our discretion in the operation of our business by restricting our ability to: • sell assets; 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS • pay dividends and make other distributions; • redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • incur additional debt and issue capital stock; • create liens; • consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; • undergo a change in control; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; • engage in new lines of business; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. These restrictions on our ability to operate our business in our discretion could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities. The WF Credit Facility is subject to various additional covenants, including senior and total leverage ratios, a fixed charges ratio, a minimum Earning before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization level, and a minimum accounts receivable level. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet these financial tests, and we cannot assure you that we will meet them. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our cash flow and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations, including the 11% Notes. As of December 31, 2010, MDC had $286.2 million net of original issue discount of indebtedness. In addition, we have and expect to continue to make additional drawings under the WF Credit Facility from time to time. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet MDC’s debt service and other obligations. If we are unable to meet our expenses and debt service obligations, we may need to obtain additional debt, refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets or raise equity. We may not be able to obtain additional debt, refinance any of our indebtedness, sell assets or raise equity on commercially reasonable terms or at all, which could cause us to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, to obtain additional debt or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; the lenders under the WF Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to loan us money and foreclose against the assets securing our borrowings; and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the 11% Notes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and other activities; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the advertising industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit, particularly in concert with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds or take other actions. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Despite our current debt levels, we may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could further increase the risks associated with our leverage. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the11% Notes permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness subject to certain limitations. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we face could increase. We are a holding company dependent on our subsidiaries for our ability to service our debt and pay dividends. MDC is a holding company with no operations of our own. Consequently, our ability to service our debt and to pay cash dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the earnings from the businesses conducted by our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to provide us with funds for our payment obligations, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. Although our operating subsidiaries have generally agreed to allow us to consolidate and “sweep” cash, subject to the timing of payments due to minority holders, any distribution of earnings to us from our subsidiaries is contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings and various other business considerations. Also, our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization, and therefore the right of the holders of common stock to participate in those assets, will be structurally subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. In addition, even if we were a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. We could change our existing dividend practice in the future. The declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock is at the discretion of MDC’s board of directors and will depend upon limitations contained in our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the 11% Notes, future earnings, capital requirements, our general financial condition and general business conditions. MDC’s practice is to pay dividends only out of excess free cash flow from operations, and in the event that worsening economic conditions, disruptions in the credit markets or other factors have a significant effect on our liquidity, MDC’s board of directors could decide to reduce or suspend dividend payments in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 