Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, results of operations or financial condition. See also “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.” MDC competes for clients in highly competitive industries. MDC’s Marketing Communications Group operates in a highly competitive environment in an industry characterized by numerous firms of varying sizes, with no single firm or group of firms having a dominant position in the marketplace. Competitive factors include creative reputation, management, personal relationships, quality and reliability of service and expertise in particular niche areas of the marketplace. In addition, because a firm’s principal asset is its people, barriers to entry are minimal, and relatively small firms are, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s business from a larger competitor. While many of MDC’s client relationships are long-standing, companies put their advertising and marketing services businesses up for competitive review from time to time, including at times when clients enter into strategic transactions. To the extent that the Marketing Communications Group fails to maintain existing clients or attract new clients, MDC’s business, financial condition and operating results may be affected in a materially adverse manner. MDC’s Secure Products International Group competes primarily on the basis of quality, customer service, design capability and price. A number of MDC’s competitors have greater resources than those available to us, which resources may enable them to aggressively pursue and compete for the business of our Secure Products International Group. The loss of lines of credit could adversely affect MDC’s liquidity and our ability to implement MDC’s acquisition strategy and fund any put options if exercised. As of December 31, 2005, MDC had approximately $81.7 million outstanding under its revolving credit facility in the form of borrowings and letters of credit (the “Credit Facility”). MDC uses amounts available under the Credit Facility, together with cash flow from operations, to fund its working capital needs, to fund the exercise of put option obligations and to fund our strategy of making selective acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. MDC amended its Credit Facility five times in 2005, and again on January 17, 2006. Certain of these amendments to the Credit Facility were necessary in order to avoid an event of default under the Credit Facility and to permit the Company to continue to borrow under the Credit Facility. See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources,” for a more detailed discussion of these amendments to the Credit Facility. The Company is currently in compliance with all of the terms and conditions of its amended Credit Facility, and management believes that the Company will be in compliance with covenants over the next twelve months. If, however, events were to occur which result in MDC losing all or a substantial portion of its lines of credit under the Credit Facility, MDC would be required to seek other sources of liquidity. If MDC was unable to replace this source of liquidity, its ability to fund its working capital needs and any contingent obligations with respect to put options would be adversely affected. MDC may not realize the benefits it expects from past acquisitions or acquisitions MDC may make in the future. MDC’s business strategy includes ongoing efforts to engage in material acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. MDC intends to finance these acquisitions by using available cash from operations and through incurrence of debt or bridge financing, either of which may increase its leverage ratios, or by issuing equity, which may have a dilutive impact on 16 its existing shareholders. At any given time MDC may be engaged in a number of discussions that may result in one or more material acquisitions. These opportunities require confidentiality and may involve negotiations that require quick responses by MDC. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, the announcement of any such transaction may lead to increased volatility in the trading price of its securities. The success of acquisitions or strategic investments depends on the effective integration of newly acquired businesses into MDC’s current operations, including the recent Zyman Group acquisition. Such integration is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel and clients, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired company. MDC may not realize the strategic and financial benefits that it expects from any of its past acquisitions, or any future acquisitions. MDC’s business could be adversely affected if it loses key clients. MDC’s strategy has been to acquire ownership stakes in diverse marketing communications businesses to minimize the effects that might arise from the loss of any one client or executive. The loss of one or more clients could materially affect the results of individual companies within the Marketing Communication Group. Management succession is very important to the ongoing results of MDC’s Marketing Communications Group because, as in any service business, the success of a particular agency is dependent upon the leadership of key executives and management personnel. If key executives were to leave, the relationships that MDC has with its clients could be lost. Within the Secure Products International Group, the postage stamp business derives a significant portion of its revenue from government contracts, which are generally awarded in a competitive bidding process. The loss of any of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on the sales and earnings of Ashton-Potter, MDC’s postage stamp production subsidiary. MDC’s ability to generate new business from new and existing clients may be limited. To increase its revenues, MDC needs to obtain additional clients or generate additional demand for its services from existing clients. MDC’s ability to generate initial demand for its services from new clients and additional demand from existing clients is subject to such clients’ and potential clients’ requirements, pre-existing vendor relationships, financial condition, strategic plans and internal resources, as well as the quality of MDC’s employees, services and reputation and the breadth of its services. To the extent MDC cannot generate new business from new and existing clients due to these limitations, it will limit MDC’s ability to grow its business and to increase its revenues. MDC’s revenues are susceptible to declines as a result of general adverse economic developments. The marketing communications services industry is cyclical and is subject to the negative effects of economic downturns. MDC’s advertising and marketing services subsidiaries and affiliates, and its Secure Products International Group, are also exposed to the risk of clients changing their business plans and/or reducing their marketing budgets. As a result, if the U.S. and Canadian economies weaken, our businesses, financial condition and operating results are likely to be adversely affected. MDC’s business could be adversely affected if it loses or fails to attract key employees. Employees, including creative, research, media, account and practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among MDC’s most important assets. An important aspect of MDC’s competitiveness is its ability to retain key employee and management personnel. Compensation for these key employees is an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and MDC may not offer a level of 17 compensation sufficient to attract and retain these key employees. If MDC fails to hire and retain a sufficient number of these key employees, it may not be able to compete effectively. MDC is exposed to the risk of client media account defaults. MDC’s Marketing Communications Group often incurs expenses on behalf of its clients in order to secure a variety of media time and space, in exchange for which it receives a fee. The difference between the gross cost of the media and the net revenue earned by us can be significant. While MDC takes precautions against default on payment for these services (such as advance billing of clients) and have historically had a very low incidence of default, MDC is still exposed to the risk of significant uncollectible receivables from our clients. MDC’s results of operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. Although MDC’s financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a portion of its revenues and operating costs are denominated in Canadian dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, may affect MDC’s financial results and competitive position. MDC is subject to regulations that could restrict its activities or negatively impact its revenues. Advertising and marketing communications businesses are subject to government regulation, both domestic and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency in the United States on the part of advertisers to resort to litigation and self-regulatory bodies to challenge comparative advertising on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive. Moreover, there has recently been an expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements with respect to advertising for certain products. Representatives within government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and consequently MDC’s revenues. MDC is still implementing its plan to eliminate material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. MDC is required to review and assess its disclosure controls and procedures and its internal controls over financial reporting, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As disclosed more fully in Item 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, management’s assessment has identified the existence of material weaknesses in disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. MDC is still remediating its material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures and its internal control over financial reporting. These weaknesses may adversely affect MDC’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data and, by themselves or in combination, result in a more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in or omission from its financial statements and other financial reporting will not be prevented or detected by MDC’s employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. Despite the ongoing dedication of significant resources to remediate these material weaknesses, MDC has determined that additional work will be required to remediate these material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting and cannot assure that these material weaknesses will be fully remediated in the near term. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting require MDC to perform additional analyses and pre- and post-closing procedures that, if not performed effectively, may prevent MDC from reporting its financial results in an accurate and timely manner. As a result of such material 18 weaknesses, MDC’s internal control over financial reporting might not prevent or detect all misstatements, including immaterial misstatements and misstatements created by collusion or fraud. In light of these material weaknesses and the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, management has concluded that MDC’s disclosure controls and procedures are not effective. Therefore, MDC is performing additional analyses and other pre and post-closing procedures to ensure that MDC’s consolidated financial statements are presented fairly in all material respects in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. These procedures include monthly analytic reviews of subsidiaries’ financial results, and quarterly certifications by senior management of subsidiaries regarding the accuracy of reported financial information. MDC also vigorously enforces its policies and the Code of Conduct applicable to its employees. If the additional analyses and pre- and post-closing procedures are not performed effectively, if actions to remediate these material weaknesses are not successfully implemented or if other material weaknesses are identified in the future, MDC’s ability to report its quarterly and annual financial results on a timely and accurate basis could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 