Item 1A. Risk Factors The following factors could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, results of operations or financial condition. See also “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.” MDC competes for clients in highly competitive industries. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment in an industry characterized by numerous firms of varying sizes, with no single firm or group of firms having a dominant position in the marketplace. Competitive factors include creative reputation, management, personal relationships, quality and reliability of service and expertise in particular niche areas of the marketplace. In addition, because a firm’s principal asset is its people, barriers to entry are minimal, and relatively small firms are, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s business from a larger competitor. While many of MDC’s client relationships are long-standing, companies put their advertising and marketing services businesses up for competitive review from time to time, including at times when clients enter into strategic transactions. To the extent that the Company fails to maintain existing clients or attract new clients, MDC’s business, financial condition and operating results may be affected in a materially adverse manner. The loss of lines of credit could adversely affect MDC’s liquidity and our ability to implement MDC’s acquisition strategy and fund any put options if exercised. As of December 31, 2006, MDC had approximately $48.9 million outstanding under its revolving credit facility in the form of borrowings and letters of credit (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility is scheduled to expire, by its terms, on September 22, 2007. MDC uses amounts available under the Credit Facility, together with cash flow from operations, to fund its working capital needs, to fund the exercise of put option obligations and to fund our strategy of making selective acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. MDC amended its Credit Facility five times in 2005, and another four times in 2006. Certain of these amendments to the Credit Facility were necessary in order to avoid an event of default under the Credit Facility and to permit the Company to continue to borrow under the Credit Facility. See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources,” for a more detailed discussion of these amendments to the Credit Facility. The Company is currently in compliance with all of the terms and conditions of its amended Credit Facility, and management believes that the Company will be in compliance with covenants over the next twelve months. If, however, events were to occur which result in MDC losing all or a substantial portion of its lines of credit under the Credit Facility, MDC would be required to seek other sources of liquidity. In addition, if MDC were unable to replace this source of liquidity, or if MDC were unable to extend the term or replace the Credit Facility prior to September 22, 2007, then MDC’s ability to fund its working capital needs and any contingent obligations with respect to put options would be materially adversely affected. MDC has identified, and corrected, improper practices relating to its historical option grant practices, and the results of MDC’s internal review may give rise to uncertainties and liabilities. As disclosed in the Company’s Report on Form 8-K filed on December 22, 2006, a Special Committee of disinterested and independent directors, with the assistance of independent legal counsel, completed an internal review of the Company’s historical option grant practice. In connection with this review, the Company has corrected all historical option grants for which the exercise price did not correspond to the market price on the date of the approval of the grant so that the exercise price is now the same as the market price on the date of the approval. These adjustments were made pursuant to the self-correcting provisions in the Company’s option plan. As previously disclosed, the Company does not intend nor expect to restate any financial statements for prior periods, and management does not expect any material impact on the Company’s financial statements as a result of the Special Committee’s review and conclusions. P> The Company has incurred significant expenses for outside legal counsel services as part of its review. While the Special Committee believes it has made appropriate judgments in correcting improper stock option grants and implementing its recommendations, it is possible that one or more regulatory agencies may determine to conduct 8 their own formal investigation of the Company’s historical option grant process. Accordingly, there is a risk that the Company may have to take other actions not currently contemplated. MDC may not realize the benefits it expects from past acquisitions or acquisitions MDC may make in the future. MDC’s business strategy includes ongoing efforts to engage in material acquisitions of ownership interests in entities in the marketing communications services industry. MDC intends to finance these acquisitions by using available cash from operations and through incurrence of debt or bridge financing, either of which may increase its leverage ratios, or by issuing equity, which may have a dilutive impact on its existing shareholders. At any given time MDC may be engaged in a number of discussions that may result in one or more material acquisitions. These opportunities require confidentiality and may involve negotiations that require quick responses by MDC. Although there is uncertainty that any of these discussions will result in definitive agreements or the completion of any transactions, the announcement of any such transaction may lead to increased volatility in the trading price of its securities. The success of acquisitions or strategic investments depends on the effective integration of newly acquired businesses into MDC’s current operations. Such integration is subject to risks and uncertainties, including realization of anticipated synergies and cost savings, the ability to retain and attract personnel and clients, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, and undisclosed or potential legal liabilities of the acquired company. MDC may not realize the strategic and financial benefits that it expects from any of its past acquisitions, or any future acquisitions. MDC’s business could be adversely affected if it loses key clients. MDC’s strategy has been to acquire ownership stakes in diverse marketing communications businesses to minimize the effects that might arise from the loss of any one client or executive. The loss of one or more clients could materially affect the results of the individual operating companies and the Company as a whole. Management succession at our operating units is very important to the ongoing results of the Company because, as in any service business, the success of a particular agency is dependent upon the leadership of key executives and management personnel. If key executives were to leave our operating units, the relationships that MDC has with its clients could be adversely affected. MDC’s ability to generate new business from new and existing clients may be limited. To increase its revenues, MDC needs to obtain additional clients or generate demand for additional services from existing clients. MDC’s ability to generate initial demand for its services from new clients and additional demand from existing clients is subject to such clients’ and potential clients’ requirements, pre-existing vendor relationships, financial condition, strategic plans and internal resources, as well as the quality of MDC’s employees, services and reputation and the breadth of its services. To the extent MDC cannot generate new business from new and existing clients due to these limitations, it will limit MDC’s ability to grow its business and to increase its revenues. MDC’s revenues are susceptible to declines as a result of general adverse economic developments. The marketing communications services industry is cyclical and is subject to the negative effects of economic downturns. MDC’s advertising and marketing services subsidiaries and affiliates are also exposed to the risk of clients changing their business plans and/or reducing their marketing budgets. As a result, if the U.S. and Canadian economies weaken, our businesses, financial condition and operating results are likely to be adversely affected. MDC’s business could be adversely affected if it loses or fails to attract key employees. Employees, including creative, research, media, account and practice group specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among MDC’s most important assets. An important aspect of MDC’s competitiveness is its ability to retain key employee and management personnel. Compensation for these key employees is an essential factor in attracting and retaining them, and MDC may not offer a level of compensation sufficient to attract and retain these key employees. If MDC fails to hire and retain a sufficient number of these key employees, it may not be able to compete effectively. 9 MDC is exposed to the risk of client media account defaults. The Company often incurs expenses on behalf of its clients in order to secure a variety of media time and space, in exchange for which it receives a fee. The difference between the gross cost of the media and the net revenue earned by us can be significant. While MDC takes precautions against default on payment for these services (such as advance billing of clients) and have historically had a very low incidence of default, MDC is still exposed to the risk of significant uncollectible receivables from our clients. MDC’s results of operations are subject to currency fluctuation risks. Although MDC’s financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, a portion of its revenues and operating costs are denominated in currencies other than the US dollar. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, may affect MDC’s financial results and competitive position. MDC is subject to regulations that could restrict its activities or negatively impact its revenues. Advertising and marketing communications businesses are subject to government regulation, both domestic and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency in the United States on the part of advertisers to resort to litigation and self-regulatory bodies to challenge comparative advertising on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive. Moreover, there has recently been an expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements with respect to advertising for certain products. Representatives within government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and consequently MDC’s revenues. MDC has recently eliminated material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. MDC is required to review and assess its disclosure controls and procedures and its internal controls over financial reporting, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As disclosed more fully in Item 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, management’s assessment has identified that all previously disclosed material weaknesses in disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting have been remediated. However, MDC cannot ensure that additional material weaknesses or deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Deficiencies may adversely affect MDC’s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of March 15, 2007, there is one unresolved comment of the Staff of the Division of Corporate Finance of the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the Company’s accounting policy for revenue recognition under the Proportional Performance model. (See Note 2 regarding “Revenue Recognition” in the notes to the Company’s consolidated financial statements herein). The Company believes that application of this accounting policy is appropriate and in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 