Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects. Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Proposed acquisitions that are not consummated may result in the write-off of certain acquisition costs. Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. For example, it acquired WhereNet Corp. (“WhereNet”), in January 2007. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to Zebra. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing development of the business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Moreover, Zebra may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses. To the extent that a proposed acquisition is not consummated, Zebra may be required to write off certain costs associated with the acquisition, which could be significant. Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by rapid technological change. To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands. Zebra’s industry is characterized by: · Rapidly changing technology · Evolving industry standards · Frequent new product and service introductions · Evolving distribution channels · Changing customer demands Future success will depend on Zebra’s ability to adapt in this rapidly evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. Zebra competes in a highly competitive market, which is likely to become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its systems. Principal competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to provide: · Technologically advanced systems that satisfy the user demands, · Superior customer service, · High levels of quality and reliability, and · Dependable and efficient distribution networks. Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products. Any of these factors could reduce Zebra’s earnings. Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the rapid increase in the complexity of its business. Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through domestic and international growth and acquisitions. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our rapid growth and increased complexities of our business and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: · Manufacturing an increased number of products; · Increased administrative and operational burden; · Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; 13 · Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; and · Managing increasing international operations. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, we may have difficulties managing associated increased costs, which could adversely affect our operating margins. Zebra sources some of its component parts from sole source suppliers. A disruption in the supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In particular, a key microprocessor used in Zebra products has been the subject of patent litigation against the manufacturer. While Zebra expects the manufacturer to prevail, an adverse result is such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s financial results. Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebra suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge, such as RFID, the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged. Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trade secrets and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy aspects of Zebra’s products or, without authorization, to obtain and use information which Zebra regards as trade secrets. Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Zebra may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in Zebra’s own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. A Zebra supplier has in the past provided us with defective lithium-ion battery packs which were subject to a product recall. Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebra’s installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial results. 14 The planned retirement of Zebra’s chief executive officer could cause dislocations in management and changes in strategic direction. During the third quarter of 2006, we announced that Edward L. Kaplan, Zebra’s co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer, plans to retire as CEO following the recruitment of a successor CEO. This current period of transition and future change in leadership could result in changes in other senior and mid-level management personnel. Such changes could have an adverse affect on Zebra’s business. In addition, no assurances can be provided as to whether the successor CEO, who has yet to be named, will seek to change Zebra’s strategies. Zebra’s equipment is subject to U.S. and foreign regulations that pertain to electrical and electronic equipment, which may materially adversely affect Zebra’s business. These regulations influence the design, components or operation of such products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always possible and, in some jurisdictions, regulations may be introduced with little or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations. Zebra’s failure to comply with these regulations may prevent Zebra from selling our products in a certain country. In addition, these regulations may increase our cost of supplying the products by forcing us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, Zebra may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on Zebra’s revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. In January 2003, the European Union, (“EU”), issued two directives relating to chemical substances in electronic products. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive requires producers of electrical goods to pay for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. EU governments were required to enact and implement legislation that complies with this directive (such legislation together with the directive, the “WEEE Legislation”), and certain producers are to be financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation. The EU issued another directive that requires electrical and electronic equipment placed on the EU market after July 1, 2006, to be free of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium (above a threshold limit) and brominated flame retardants. EU governments were required to enact and implement legislation that complies with this directive (such legislation together with this directive, the “RoHS Legislation”). We are currently in compliance; however, if we do not comply with these directives, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets and/or countries, be subject to penalties and enforced fees, and/or suffer a competitive disadvantage. Also, complying with these directives has presented additional complexities to manufacturing and operations which could result in adverse results. We cannot assure you that the costs to comply with these new laws, or with current and future environmental laws, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. Added risks are associated with our international operations which may have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business. Zebra has significant overseas operations, notably in the U.K., Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia-Pacific, including, in particular, an increasing presence in China, which present added risks that may materially adversely affect the financial results and condition of Zebra. These risks include the following: · Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices; · Inadequately managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters; · The inability to hire and retain appropriate employees in highly competitive job markets; and · The failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls relating to these operations. If we are not able to effectively manage these risks, they may harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Zebra sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases important components from foreign suppliers. These circumstances create a number of risks. Zebra sells a significant amount of its products to customers outside the United States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Risks associated with sales and purchases outside the United States include: · Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries. · Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions. · Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products, or put our foreign assets at risk. · Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets. · Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories. · Staffing and managing international operations may be unusually difficult. 15 Economic factors, which are outside Zebra’s control, could lead to deterioration in the quality of Zebra’s accounts receivables. Zebra sells its products to customers in the United States and several other countries around the world. Sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms, which are generally consistent with the prevailing business practices in a given country. A deterioration of economic or political conditions in a country could impair Zebra’s ability to collect on receivables in the affected country. Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. Future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the service of any executive officer or other key employees could adversely affect business. Zebra maintains minimal key man life insurance policies on its co-founders. The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term success. Competition for personnel in Zebra’s industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001 caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. Possible further acts of terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. The United States continues to take military action against terrorism and is currently engaged in a costly occupation of Iraq. These events may lead to additional armed hostilities or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to economic instability. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. Zebra is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebra’s effective tax rate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 