Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Final assembly of our thermal printers is performed by Jabil Circuit, a third-party electronics manufacturer. We are dependent on Jabil for the manufacture of such printers. A failure by Jabil to provide manufacturing services to Zebra as Zebra requires, or any disruption in such manufacturing services, may adversely affect Zebra’s business results. Because we rely on a third-party provider such as Jabil to manufacture its products, Zebra may incur increased business continuity risks. Zebra is no longer able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of its thermal printers Jabil produces. If Jabil experiences business difficulties or fails to meet Zebra’s manufacturing needs, then Zebra may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without Jabil’s continuing manufacture of Zebra’s products, Zebra will have no other means of final assembly of its thermal printers until Zebra is able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. Although Zebra carries business interruption insurance to cover lost sales and profits in an amount it considers adequate, in the event of supply disruption, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate Zebra for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with our existing customers. A third-party provider such as Jabil will have access to Zebra’s intellectual property, which increases the risk of infringement or misappropriation of this intellectual property. Zebra has significant operations outside the United States and sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases important components from foreign suppliers. These circumstances create a number of risks. Zebra has significant operations outside the United States which present added risks. In addition, Zebra sells a significant amount of its products to customers outside the United States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Risks associated with operations, sales and purchases outside the United States include: • Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries, • Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect our customers and suppliers, • Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: • Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions, • Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets, • Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products, or put our foreign assets at risk, • Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories, • Staffing and turnover at international operations may be unusually difficult, • A government controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese yuan, and • Transportation delays that may affect production and distribution of Zebra’s products, • Inadequately managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters. Customers have the right to return products that do not function properly within a limited time after delivery. Zebra monitors and tracks product returns and records a provision for the estimated future returns based on historical experience and any notification received of pending returns. Zebra, however, cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience return rates consistent with historical patterns. Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands. 12 Table of Contents Zebra’s industry is characterized by: • Evolving industry standards, • Frequent new product and service introductions, • Evolving distribution channels, • Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions, and • Changing customer demands. Future success will depend on Zebra’s ability to cost effectively adapt in this evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. Zebra competes in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its products and solutions. Some competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to cost effectively provide: • Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands, • Superior customer service, • High levels of quality and reliability, and • Dependable and efficient distribution networks. Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products. Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the rapid increase in the complexity of its business. Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through domestic and international growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: • Compliance with evolving laws and regulations, • Managing our distribution channel partners, • Manufacturing an increased number of products, • Increased administrative and operational burden, • Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth, • Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations, and • Managing increasing international operations. Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to Zebra. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and development of the business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks: • Difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities to Zebra, • The loss of key employees of acquired entities, • The ability of acquired entities to fulfill obligations to their customers, • The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, • The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns, and • The acquired entities’ ability to improve internal controls and accounting systems to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting. 13 Table of Contents Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Zebra sources some of its component parts from sole source suppliers. A disruption in the supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and negatively affect our financial results. Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebra suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge, such as RFID, the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged. Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trade secrets and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy aspects of Zebra’s products or, without authorization, to obtain and use information which Zebra regards as trade secrets. Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Zebra may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in Zebra’s own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebra’s installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial results. Zebra’s products are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. foreign regulations that pertain to electrical and electronic equipment, which may materially adversely affect Zebra’s business. These regulations influence the design, components or operation of such products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always possible and, in some jurisdictions, regulations may be introduced with little or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations. Zebra’s failure to comply with these regulations may prevent Zebra from selling our products in a certain country. In addition, these regulations may increase our cost of supplying the products by forcing us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, Zebra may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on Zebra’s revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. Zebra is implementing a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The implementation process is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. Zebra is currently replacing its multiple legacy business systems at its different sites with a new company-wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle various business, operating and financial processes for Zebra and its subsidiaries. The new system will enhance a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, logistics, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system hardware and software and implementation activities that often continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts are required for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed shipments or production, missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt Zebra’s ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of its consolidated operations, its financial position and cash flows, 14 Table of Contents which could impact Zebra’s ability to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Until the new ERP system is fully implemented, Zebra expects to incur additional selling, general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures to implement and test the system, and there can be no assurance that other issues relating to the ERP system will not occur or be identified. Zebra’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected if it experiences operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system and the associated process changes, do not function as expected or give rise to the expected benefits. Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. The future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001, caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. The possibility of further acts of terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. Zebra is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebra’s effective tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. As widely reported, financial markets throughout the world experienced extreme disruption since 2008, including historically high volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions and corporations. A recurrence of these developments and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect Zebra’s business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturer and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. Another economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Zebra’s products and services; negatively impact Zebra’s ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound, the Chinese yuan, and the Brazilian real could negatively impact product sales, margins and collections. A natural disaster, like the recent natural disasters in Japan and Thailand, may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. As widely reported, a powerful earthquake centered off the northeastern coast of Japan on March 11, 2011, resulted in the loss of many lives, wide-spread damage to and destruction of property, disruption of electric power, and the release of radiation from a crippled nuclear power plant. This devastation disrupted the operations to varying degrees of companies with business activity in the affected region, including the business of Zebra suppliers. Other natural disasters may occur in the future and Zebra is not able to predict to what extent, or duration, any such or similarof these disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The consequences of an unfortunate natural disaster may have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 