Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Final assembly of our thermal printers and most of our Location Solutions products is performed by Jabil Circuit, a third-party electronics manufacturer. We are dependent on Jabil as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by Jabil to provide manufacturing services to Zebra as Zebra requires, or any disruption in such manufacturing services, may adversely affect Zebra’s business results. Because we rely on a third-party provider such as Jabil to manufacture our products, Zebra may incur increased business continuity risks. Zebra is not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of its thermal printers and Location Solutions products. If Jabil experiences business difficulties or fails to meet Zebra’s manufacturing needs, then Zebra may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without Jabil’s continuing manufacture of Zebra’s products, Zebra will have no other means of final assembly of its thermal printers and Location Solutions products until Zebra is able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. Although Zebra carries business interruption insurance to cover lost sales and profits in an amount it considers adequate, in the event of supply disruption, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate Zebra for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with our existing customers going forward. Zebra has significant operations outside the United States and sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases important components, including final products, from foreign suppliers. Zebra has significant operations outside of the United States which create significant risks. In addition, Zebra sells a substantial amount of its products to customers outside of the United States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Zebra also expects to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with overseas production and assembly operations for our products. Risks associated with operations, sales and purchases outside the United States include: • Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales or increase costs of purchasing in foreign countries; • Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; • Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: • Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions; • Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets; • Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our foreign assets at risk; • Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing on our products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; • Staffing may be difficult and turnover higher at international operations; • A government controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese yuan; • Transportation delays that may affect production and distribution of Zebra’s products; and • Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters may be difficult. Customers have the right to return products that do not function properly within a limited time after delivery. Zebra monitors and tracks product returns and records a provision for the estimated future returns based on historical experience and any notification received of pending returns. Zebra, however, cannot guarantee that it will continue to experience return rates consistent with historical patterns. Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands. 12 Table of Contents Zebra’s industry is characterized by: • Evolving industry standards, • Frequent new product and service introductions, • Evolving distribution channels, • Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions, and • Changing customer demands. Future success will depend on Zebra’s ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. Zebra competes in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its products and solutions. Some competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to effectively and economically provide: • Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands, • Superior customer service, • High levels of quality and reliability, and • Dependable and efficient distribution networks. Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products, which may create additional pressures on Zebra’s competitive position in the marketplace. Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of its business. Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through domestic and international growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business and the demands from increased responsibility. The following factors could present difficulties to us: • Compliance with evolving laws and regulations in multiple international jurisdictions; • Managing our distribution channel partners; • Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; • Manufacturing an increased number of products; • Increased administrative and operational burden; • Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; • Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; and • Increasing international operations. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Zebra’s ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to unreasonable asking prices, competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to Zebra. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. 13 Table of Contents Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including: • Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities; • The loss of key employees of acquired entities; • The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customer’s obligations; • The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities; • Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; • The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; and • The acquired entities’ ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Zebra sources some of its component parts from sole source suppliers. A disruption in the supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and negatively affect our financial results. Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebra suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third-party’s patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, Zebra’s products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged. Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of Zebra’s intellectual property and its products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information which Zebra regards as its trade secrets. Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Zebra may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in Zebra’s own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebra’s installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial results. Zebra’s products are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. foreign regulations that pertain to electrical and electronic equipment, which may materially adversely affect Zebra’s business. These regulations influence the design, components or operation of such products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always possible and, in some jurisdictions, regulations may be introduced with little or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations. Zebra’s failure to comply with these regulations may prevent us from selling our products in a certain country. In addition, these regulations may increase our cost of supplying products by forcing us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, Zebra may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on Zebra’s revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. Like many companies, Zebra continually strives to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We regularly perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection and implement and manage disaster recovery testing. A cyber-attack that breaches our external perimeter may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems and/or lead to the loss or corruption of confidential business information that could result in an adverse business impact, as well as, possible damage to the Zebra brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. 14 Table of Contents While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at Zebra. If Zebra’s core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and data. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach effecting the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and/or data. Zebra products that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in damage to a customer’s confidentiality, integrity and availability of the customer’s data and systems. Defects or errors in Zebra’s software products could harm its reputation, result in significant cost to Zebra and impair Zebra’s ability to market such products. Zebra’s software may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs. Although Zebra has not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. It is possible that errors, defects or bugs will be found in Zebra’s existing or future software products and related services with the possible results of delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, Zebra’s products and services, diversion of our resources, injury to our reputation, increased service and warranty expenses and payment of damages. Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. The future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001, caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. The possibility of further acts of terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. Zebra is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebra’s effective tax rate. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on Zebra’s effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense and cash flows. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Financial markets throughout the world experienced extreme disruption from 2008 through 2009, resulting in historically high volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions and corporations. A recurrence of these developments and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect Zebra’s business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturer and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. Another economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Zebra’s products and services; negatively impact Zebra’s ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound, the Chinese yuan, and the Brazilian real could negatively impact product sales, margins and cash flows. A natural disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. As reported, a powerful earthquake centered off the northeastern coast of Japan on March 11, 2011, resulted in the loss of many lives, wide-spread damage to and destruction of property, disruption of electric power, and the release of radiation from a crippled nuclear power plant. This devastation disrupted the operations to varying degrees of companies with business activity in the affected region, including the business of Zebra suppliers. Other natural disasters may occur in the future and Zebra is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The consequences of an unfortunate natural disaster may have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 16 Table of Contents 