Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. We have organized the risk factors into three sections: (1) Risks related to our business generally, (2) Risks related to the Acquisition and Integration of Enterprise, and (3) Risks related to the Indebtedness. 12 Table of Contents Risks related to our business Zebra has substantial operations outside the United States and sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases important components, including final products, from foreign suppliers. Zebra has substantial operations outside of the United States which create significant risks. In addition, Zebra sells a substantial amount of its products to customers outside of the United States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Zebra also expects to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-US production and assembly operations for our products. Risks associated with operations, sales and purchases outside the United States include: • Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales or increase costs of purchasing in foreign countries; • Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers; • Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: • Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions; • Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets; • Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our foreign assets at risk; • Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing on our products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories; • Staffing may be difficult and turnover higher at international operations; • A government controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the the Chinese yuan; • Transportation delays and customs related delays that may affect production and distribution of Zebra’s products; and • Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters may be difficult. We also are subject to risks that our operations could be conducted by our employees, contractors, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or other similar anti-corruption laws. While we have policies and procedures to comply with these laws, our employees, contractors, representatives and agents may take actions that violate our policies. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business. Moreover, we face risks that our anti-corruption policies and procedures may be violated by third-party sales representatives or other third-parties that help sell our products or provide other solutions and services, because such representatives or agents are not our employees and it may be more difficult to oversee their conduct. Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands. Zebra’s industry is characterized by: • Evolving industry standards, • Frequent new product and service introductions, • Evolving distribution channels, • Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions, • Changing customer demands, and • Changing security protocols. Future success will depend on Zebra’s ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. 13 Table of Contents Zebra competes in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its products and solutions. Some competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to effectively and economically provide: • Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands, • Superior customer service, • High levels of quality and reliability, and • Dependable and efficient distribution networks. Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in mobile computing products, data capture products, printers, WLAN products and solutions or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products, which may create additional pressures on Zebra’s competitive position in the marketplace. Zebra sources some of its component parts from sole source suppliers. A disruption in the supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and negatively affect our financial results. Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of its business. Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through the Acquisition and domestic and international growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business and the demands from increased responsibility. The following factors could present difficulties to Zebra: • Compliance with evolving laws and regulations in multiple international jurisdictions; • Managing our distribution channel partners; • Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain; • Manufacturing an increased number of products; • Increased administrative and operational burden; • Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth; • Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations; and • Increasing international operations. Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Zebra’s ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms. Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to Zebra. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including: • Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities; • The loss of key employees of acquired entities; • The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers’ obligations; • The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities; • Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; 14 Table of Contents • The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired; and • The acquired entities’ ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebra’s suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third-party’s patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, Zebra’s products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged. Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Zebra uses copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of Zebra’s intellectual property and its products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information which Zebra regards as its trade secrets. Additionally, the intellectual property rights Zebra obtains may not be sufficient to provide it with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any infringement litigation that Zebra may undertake to protect its intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award Zebra may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect Zebra’s proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of Zebra’s intellectual property and its incurring substantial litigation costs, and, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of Zebra’s confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Some aspects of Zebra’s business and services also rely on technologies, software and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and Zebra may not be able to maintain its relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We currently use third party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our mobile computing products. Such parties ceasing continued development of the operating system or restricting our access to such operating system could adversely impact our business and financial results. We currently use third-party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our mobile computing products. As a result, we are dependent on third-parties’ continued development of operating systems, software application ecosystem infrastructures and such third-parties’ approval of our implementations of their operating system and associated applications. If such parties cease to continue development or support of such operating systems or restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. As a result, our financial results could be negatively impacted because a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on Zebra and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage Zebra. Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. Like many companies, Zebra continually strives to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We regularly perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection and implement and manage disaster recovery testing. A cyber-attack that breaches our external perimeter may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems and/or lead to the loss or corruption of confidential business information that could result in an adverse business impact, as well as, possible damage to the Zebra brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at Zebra. If Zebra’s core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and data. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach effecting the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and/or data. 15 Table of Contents Zebra products that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in damage to a customer’s confidentiality, integrity and availability of the customer’s data and systems. It is possible that such a breach could result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, Zebra’s products and services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; increase service and warranty expenses and payment of damages. Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Zebra may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in Zebra’s own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebra’s installed product base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed product base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial results. Defects or errors in Zebra’s software products could harm its reputation, result in significant cost to Zebra and impair Zebra’s ability to market such products. Zebra’s software may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs. Although Zebra has not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. It is possible that errors, defects or bugs will be found in Zebra’s existing or future software products and related services with the possible results of delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, Zebra’s products and services, diversion of our resources, injury to our reputation, increased service and warranty expenses and payment of damages. Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. The future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Any disruption in the service of senior management or our ability to attract and retain key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001 caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. The possibility of further acts of terrorism and current and future war risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. Zebra is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebra’s effective tax rate. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on Zebra’s effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense and cash flows. Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules and tax laws, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination or other reorganization or financing transaction. 16 Table of Contents As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. Financial markets throughout the world experienced extreme disruption from 2008 through 2009, resulting in historically high volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions and corporations. A recurrence of these developments and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect Zebra’s business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturers and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. Another economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Zebra’s products and services; negatively impact Zebra’s ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound, the Chinese yuan, and the Brazilian real could negatively impact product sales, margins and cash flows. A natural disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. As reported, a powerful earthquake centered off the northeastern coast of Japan on March 11, 2011, resulted in the loss of many lives, wide-spread damage to and destruction of property, disruption of electric power, and the release of radiation from a crippled nuclear power plant. This devastation disrupted the operations to varying degrees of companies with business activity in the affected region, including the business of Zebra’s suppliers. Other natural disasters may occur in the future and Zebra is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The consequences of an unfortunate natural disaster may have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business and results of operations. Zebra is exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact its business. Zebra enters into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with our customers. This exposes Zebra to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when the contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; (iii) cyber security risk, especially in managed services contracts with customers that process personal data; and (iv) political risk. Recovery of front loaded capital expenditures in long-term managed services contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or product, which could have an adverse impact on Zebra’s profitability. Zebra enters into fixed-price contracts that could subject it to losses in the event Zebra fails to properly estimate its costs. Zebra enters into a number of firm fixed-price contracts. If Zebra’s initial cost estimates are incorrect, Zebra can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new technologies and applications, require Zebra to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with Zebra’s subcontractors or suppliers and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to Zebra and have an adverse impact on Zebra’s financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts. Zebra utilizes the services of subcontractors to perform under many of its contracts and the inability of its subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact Zebra’s performance obligations as the prime contractor. Zebra engages subcontractors on many of its contracts and as Zebra expands its global solutions and services business Zebra’s use of subcontractors has and will continue to increase. Zebra’s subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. Zebra may have disputes with its subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor or its subcontractors and 17 Table of Contents the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software and services supplied by Zebra’s subcontractor. Zebra is not always successful in passing along customer requirements to its subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from its customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from Zebra’s subcontractor. Zebra’s subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs and regulatory compliance issues and could harm Zebra’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Over the last several years we have outsourced portions of certain business operations like repair, distribution and engineering services and may outsource additional business operations which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. As we outsource more of our business operations we are not able to directly control these activities. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions or other metrics. In some cases their actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations like import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Failure of Zebra’s suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is Zebra’s policy to require its suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (“TPSRs”) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption and trademark and copyright licensing. However, Zebra does not control their labor and other business practices. If one of Zebra’s suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to Zebra could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated and Zebra’s reputation could be damaged. If one of Zebra’s suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights or patents, legal action could be taken against Zebra that could impact the salability of Zebra’s products and expose Zebra to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on Zebra’s sales and results of operations. Zebra relies on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of its products. In addition to Zebra’s own sales force, Zebra offers its products through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors and retailers. These third-parties may also market other products that compete with Zebra’s products. Failure of one or more of Zebra’s dealers, distributors or retailers to effectively promote Zebra’s products could affect its ability to bring products to market and have a negative impact on its results of operations. Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors or retailers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products from other third-parties or from Zebra directly, it may cause, and in some cases has caused, a negative impact on our financial results. Final assembly of certain of Zebra’s products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. Zebra is dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to Zebra as Zebra requires, or any disruption in such manufacturing services, may adversely affect Zebra’s business results. Because Zebra relies on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture its products, Zebra may incur increased business continuity risks. Zebra is not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of its products. If these third party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet Zebra’s manufacturing needs, then Zebra may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture Zebra’s products, Zebra will have no other means of final assembly of certain of its products until Zebra is able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. 18 Table of Contents Although Zebra carries business interruption insurance to cover lost sales and profits in an amount it considers adequate, in the event of supply disruption, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate Zebra for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with our existing customers going forward. Zebra’s future operating results depend on its ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of its customers and any disruption to its suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on its results of operations. Zebra’s ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on its ability to timely obtain an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts and components, as well as services and software from its suppliers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and Zebra may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for Zebra’s products or services increases from its current expectations or if suppliers are unable to meet Zebra’s demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters or financial issues, Zebra could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on its business. Zebra has experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted its results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. In addition, credit constraints at Zebra’s suppliers could cause Zebra to accelerate payment of accounts payable by Zebra, impacting Zebra’s cash flow. In addition, Zebra’s current contractual arrangements with certain suppliers may be cancelled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford Zebra with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with Zebra, Zebra’s legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate Zebra for any damages it may suffer. The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s financial condition or results of operations. From time to time Zebra is made a party to litigation, arbitration or administrative actions. Zebra’s financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact Zebra’s financial results. It is important that Zebra is able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if Zebra is not able to obtain insurance or exhausts its coverage Zebra is forced to retain the risk. Zebra has many types of insurance coverage and is also self-insured for some risks and obligations. While the cost and availability of most insurance is stable, there are still certain types and levels of insurance that remain difficult to obtain, such as professional liability insurance, which is expensive to obtain for the amount of coverage often requested by certain customers. As Zebra grows its global solutions and services business, Zebra is being asked to obtain higher amounts of professional liability insurance, which could result in higher costs to do business. Natural disasters and certain risks arising from securities claims, professional liability and public liability are potential self-insured events that could negatively impact Zebra’s financial results. In addition, while Zebra maintains insurance for certain risks, the amount of its insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and Zebra may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident or claim. Zebra is subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws. Zebra’s operations and the products it manufactures and/or sells are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject Zebra to future costs or liabilities, impact its production capabilities, constrict its ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products and services Zebra can offer, and generally impact its financial performance. Some of these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. Zebra continues to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on Zebra’s operations or financial performance. Laws focused on: the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries and other aspects are also proliferating. There 19 Table of Contents are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether Zebra can offer certain products, solutions and services, on product costs, and on what capabilities and characteristics Zebra’s products or services can or must include. These laws impact Zebra’s products and negatively affect Zebra’s ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. Zebra expects these trends to continue. In addition, Zebra anticipates that it will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility. Risks Related to the Acquisition and Integration of the Enterprise Business Zebra may be unable to effectively integrate Enterprise into its existing business. The integration of Enterprise, which is significantly larger than Zebra’s business prior to the Acquisition, into Zebra’s operations will be a significant undertaking and will require significant attention from Zebra’s management. The Acquisition, with an approximate enterprise value of $3.45 billion, is significantly larger than prior acquisitions Zebra completed and significantly increased the size of Zebra’s operations, increased its number of employees and operating facilities and expanded its geographic scope. There can be no assurance that Zebra will be able to successfully integrate Enterprise, or if such integration is successfully accomplished, that such integration will not be more costly than presently contemplated. There can also be no assurance that Zebra can successfully manage the combined business due to Zebra’s greatly increased size and scope. If Zebra cannot successfully integrate and manage Enterprise within a reasonable time following the Acquisition, Zebra may not be able to realize the potential and anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Zebra may be unable to realize the expected growth opportunities and cost savings from the Acquisition. In connection with the integration of Enterprise into Zebra’s existing operating structure, Zebra will seek to realize growth opportunities, along with cost savings. Zebra currently expects to realize annual cost savings of approximately $150 million per year to be fully achieved by the end of 2016. The anticipated cost savings are based upon assumptions about Zebra’s ability to implement integration measures in a timely fashion and within certain cost parameters. Zebra’s ability to achieve the planned cost synergies relies upon a significant number of factors, some of which may be beyond its control. For example, Zebra may be unable to eliminate duplicative costs in a timely fashion or at all. Zebra’s inability to realize anticipated cost savings, and revenue enhancements from the Acquisition could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. The Acquisition could divert the attention of management. After completing the Acquisition, Zebra entered new lines of business that it lacks experience managing. Similarly, because Enterprise is significantly larger than Zebra’s business prior to the Acquisition, Zebra will be required to manage new and larger lines of business, and consequently the integration process will require significant attention from management, which may divert management’s attention from Zebra’s other businesses. Management may also have difficulty assimilating the corporate cultures, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. These diversions, together with other difficulties Zebra may have integrating Enterprise, could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. Zebra may be unable to retain key employees who transferred as part of Enterprise. Generally, employees of Enterprise are not contractually obligated to continue their employment with Zebra. Zebra’s ability to successfully integrate and operate Enterprise depends in part on the continued service of senior management and other key personnel of Enterprise. Zebra can provide no assurance that it will be successful in retaining the service of Enterprise’s senior managers and key employees, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s ability to integrate Enterprise. Enterprise may have liabilities that are not known to Zebra. As part of the Acquisition, Zebra assumed certain liabilities of Enterprise. There may be liabilities that Zebra failed or were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations into Enterprise. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth prospects. 20 Table of Contents The Acquisition may entitle certain customers of Enterprise to terminate their agreements with it as a result of change of control provisions. Certain Enterprise customers may be entitled to terminate certain of their agreements with Enterprise as a result of the Acquisition. Zebra cannot avoid the possibility that some customers may exercise their termination rights and opt to discontinue business with Enterprise as a result of the Acquisition, which could have an adverse effect on Zebra’s expected revenues following the Acquisition. Moreover, some of Zebra’s existing customers may conclude that as a result of the Acquisition they are overly reliant on a single provider. In such circumstance, Zebra’s customers may engage its competitors or facilitate the emergence of new competitors to diversify sourcing and service options, which could have an adverse effect on Zebra’s expected revenues following the Acquisition. Zebra relies on MSI to perform certain critical transition services and there can be no assurance that those services will be performed timely and effectively or that Zebra can replace those services prior to the expiration of the transition services agreement or successfully develop its own operations going forward. Under the terms of the transition services agreement that Zebra entered into with MSI in connection with the Acquisition, MSI will provide Zebra with services critical for the operation and continuity of Zebra operation of Enterprise for a period of twelve to twenty-four months (which may be extended an additional six to twelve months upon Zebra’s request). Zebra is in the process of transitioning these critical functions, which include primarily information technology. Until Zebra transitions such functions, it will continue to rely on MSI for those services. There can be no assurances that these services will be performed timely and effectively or that Zebra will be able to successfully or timely transition such functions away and assume responsibility over them. Significant disruption in these transition services, or unanticipated costs related to these services, could materially and adversely affect Zebra’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to transition such services to Zebra in a timely fashion or without disruption to Zebra’s operations, we could experience an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting and to report on our assessment as to the effectiveness of these controls. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements or negative reports concerning our internal controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. These documentation and reporting requirements apply to the portion of our business relating to the Enterprise as of Business of December 31, 2015. Because of the timing, size and complexity of the Acquisition Zebra has not completed its documentation and assessment of internal controls over financial reporting related to Enterprise. We may discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement, particularly with respect to Enterprise. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we take will ensure appropriate implementation and maintenance of adequate internal controls over the financial reporting processes and reporting in the future. We may incur significant additional costs in order to ensure the financial reporting related to Enterprise complies with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and its other public company requirements, which, in turn, would reduce our earnings. Implementing such remedial measures may be complicated by the limited timeframe in which to implement such measures, the possibility that implementation of such measures may require a substantial amount of work and time by Zebra personnel, and the challenge of migrating to a new ERP while implementing such remedial measures. In addition, development of an adequate financial reporting system and the internal controls for Enterprise to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may increase the time and costs necessary to complete integration of Enterprise or cause us to miss our reporting obligations. To the extent the financial reporting function of Enterprise has deficiencies in its internal controls, it may impact our internal controls. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. In addition, failure to comply with our reporting obligations with the SEC may cause an event of default to occur under the Debt Agreements, or similar instruments governing any debt we or our subsidiaries incur in the future. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Indebtedness In connection with the Acquisition, Zebra has incurred substantial debt obligations, which could adversely affect Zebra’s financial condition. Zebra’s total outstanding debt for borrowed money in connection with the acquisition was approximately $3.25 billion on October 27, 2014. In addition, subject to restrictions in the agreements governing Zebra’s existing and future indebtedness, Zebra may incur additional indebtedness. Zebra’s substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • Zebra may experience difficulty in satisfying its obligations with respect to its existing indebtedness or future indebtedness, including the Indebtedness; • Zebra’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; • Zebra plans to use a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the indebtedness, which may reduce the funds available to Zebra for other purposes, such as acquisitions and capital expenditures; • Zebra’s may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and • Zebra may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business. Zebra expects to fund its expenses and to pay the principal and interest on the Indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Zebra’s ability to meet its expenses and to pay principal and interest on the Indebtedness when due thus depends on its future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. Zebra will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where Zebra operates and pressure from competitors. Additionally, Zebra has not previously undertaken substantial amounts of indebtedness. Historically, Zebra has operated its business without incurring significant indebtedness for borrowed money and has limited experience operating its business subject to the constraints imposed by the Debt Agreements. Despite the Indebtedness, Zebra may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness and take other actions that could further exacerbate the risk associated with its substantial indebtedness. Zebra incurred approximately $3.25 billion of indebtedness. In addition to the financing activities, Zebra may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness in the future, resulting in higher leverage. Subject to the limits contained in the Debt Agreements, Zebra may incur additional indebtedness from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. To the extent Zebra incurs additional indebtedness, the risks associated with its substantial indebtedness will be exacerbated. Zebra’s use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with the Acquisition may result in added volatility in its quarterly operating results. Zebra does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, Zebra does utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with the indebtedness. To manage variable interest rate risk, Zebra entered into forward interest rate swap agreements, which will effectively convert a portion of the Indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the fair values of the swap contracts, which will either be amounts receivable from or payable to counterparties, are reflected as either assets or liabilities on Zebra’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Zebra records its fair value change in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings, as a component of “Other income (expense)”. The associated impact on Zebra’s quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, Zebra would have a non-cash gain on the swaps, and vice versa. Consequently, these swap contracts introduce complexity to Zebra’s operating results. Restrictive covenants in the Debt Agreements may limit Zebra’s current and future operations, particularly its ability to respond to changes in its business or to pursue its business strategies. The Debt Agreements contain, and instruments governing any future indebtedness will contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on Zebra’s ability to take actions that Zebra believes may be in its interest. Zebra expects these covenants will limit its ability to: • incur additional indebtedness or guarantees; • pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem its stock or prepay or redeem certain indebtedness; • sell or dispose of assets and issue capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • incur liens or enter into sale-lease-back transactions; • enter into agreements restricting its subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; 22 Table of Contents • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in new lines of business; • consolidate, merge or enter into other fundamental changes; • make loans, investments and/or acquisitions; and • enter into amendments or modifications of certain material subordinated debt agreements or organizational documents. Additionally, the Term Loan entered into to fund a portion of the Acquisition will require Zebra to maintain in certain circumstances compliance with a consolidated total secured net leverage ratio. Zebra’s ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond its control, and Zebra cannot assure you that Zebra will meet this ratio. The restrictions could adversely affect Zebra’s ability to: • finance operations; • make needed capital expenditures; • make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into alliances; • withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general; • engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in Zebra’s interest; and • plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute Zebra’s business strategies. A breach of any of the covenants contained in the Debt Agreements (including an inability to comply with the financial maintenance covenants) that is not remedied within the applicable cure period, if any, would result in an event of default under the Debt Agreements. If, when required, Zebra is unable to repay or refinance the Indebtedness or amend the covenants contained in the Debt Agreements, or if a default otherwise occurs that is not cured or waived, the lenders or holders of Zebra’s debt securities could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable or institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings. Should the outstanding obligations be accelerated and become due and payable because of any failure to comply with the applicable covenants in the future, Zebra would be required to search for alternative measures to finance current and ongoing obligations of its business. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any of these scenarios could adversely impact Zebra’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. A significant amount of cash will be required to service the Indebtedness. Zebra’s ability to make payments on and to refinance the Indebtedness and to fund working capital needs, general corporate expenditures and planned capital expenditures will depend on Zebra’s ability to generate a significant amount of cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond Zebra’s control. If Zebra’s business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to Zebra in an amount sufficient to enable Zebra to pay the Indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs, Zebra may need to refinance all or a portion of the Indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s operations. In addition, Zebra may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Zebra’s ability to restructure or refinance the Indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and its financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of the Indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require Zebra to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent Zebra from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and/or principal on outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of Zebra’s credit rating, which could harm its ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Zebra’s inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure its obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on Zebra’s business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on its ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of the Indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 