Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s business, financial condition, operating results, and growth prospects. Current economic conditions and market disruptions may adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions, in the United States or internationally, or reduced information technology spending may adversely impact our business. A substantial portion of our business depends on our customers’ demand for our products and services, the overall economic health of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. As widely reported, financial markets throughout the world have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, failure and potential failures of major financial institutions and unprecedented government support of financial institutions. These developments and the related general economic downturn will adversely impact Zebra’s business and financial condition in a number of ways, including impacts beyond those typically associated with other recent downturns in the U.S. and foreign economies. The slowdown will likely lead to reduced information technology spending by end users, which has already adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect Zebra’s product sales. If the slowdown is severe enough, it could necessitate further testing for impairment of goodwill, as well as the write-down of other intangible assets, beyond those already recognized. In addition, cost reduction actions may be necessary which would lead to additional restructuring charges. The current tightening of credit in financial markets and the general economic downturn will likely adversely affect the ability of Zebra’s customers, suppliers, outsource manufacturer and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) to obtain financing for significant purchases. The tightening could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for Zebra’s products and services, could negatively impact Zebra’s ability to collect its accounts receivable on a timely basis, could result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable being required, and in the event of the contraction in Zebra’s sales, could lead to dated inventory and require additional reserves for obsolescence. Significant volatility and fluctuations in the rates of exchange for the U.S. dollar against currencies such as the euro, the British pound and the Brazilian real could negatively impact Zebra’s customer pricing and adversely affect Zebra’s results. Zebra is unable to predict the duration and severity of the current economic downturn and disruption in financial markets or their effects on Zebra’s business and results of operations, but the consequences may be materially adverse and more severe than other recent economic slowdowns. Zebra could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. Zebra may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services or products. For example, in 2007 and 2008 Zebra acquired WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, Navis Holdings, LLC, and Multispectral Solutions, Inc., which together comprise what we refer to as the Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to Zebra. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service or product into operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and development of the business. The expected benefits of any acquisition may not be realized. Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including risks with respect to: • Difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities to Zebra, • The loss of key employees of acquired entities, • Ability of acquired entities to fulfill obligations to their customers, • The discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, • The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected returns, and • The acquired entities’ ability to improve internal controls and accounting systems to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting. 15 Table of Contents Moreover, Zebra may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions successfully. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses. Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group is a new business. Prior to the purchases in 2007, Zebra had no experience operating businesses which are in the business conducted by Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group. The Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group provides enterprise software solutions to customers which require implementation in complex environments over extended periods of time and use percentage-of-completion accounting, which has not been Zebra’s historic business. Zebra may be a party to fixed price contracts particularly for its ESG Unit that could become unfavorable contracts. From time to time ESG may enter into contracts to provide services to customers for fixed fees. Such a contract could result in material loss to Zebra if the cost to perform such contract ultimately exceeds the fees earned on such contract. Zebra is transferring final assembly of its thermal printers to Jabil Circuit and will be totally dependent on Jabil for the manufacturing of such printers. A failure by Jabil to provide manufacturing services to Zebra as Zebra requires, or any disruption in such manufacturing services, may adversely affect Zebra’s business results. Zebra expects this transfer to be complete by the end of 2009. In an effort to achieve additional cost savings and operational benefits, Zebra has expanded its outsourcing activities to include the transfer of the final assembly of its thermal printers to Jabil Circuit’s facility in HuangPu, China. However, to the extent Zebra relies on a third party service provider such as Jabil for manufacturing services, Zebra may incur increased business continuity risks. Zebra will no longer be able to exercise control over the assembly of its thermal printers or any related operations or processes, including the internal controls associated with operations and processes conducted by Jabil and the quality of Zebra’s products assembled by Jabil. If Zebra is unable to effectively develop and implement its outsourcing strategy, it may not realize cost structure efficiencies and its operating and its financial results could be materially adversely affected. During the transition period, Zebra’s printers will be manufactured both in the United States by Zebra and in China by Jabil. If Zebra is unable to effectively manage its inventory levels during the period of concurrent manufacturing, it may not have sufficient inventories to meet customer needs. At the same time, difficulty managing inventory during the transition could lead to excess and obsolete inventory and related resulting losses. In addition, if Jabil experiences business difficulties or fails to meet Zebra’s manufacturing needs, then Zebra may be unable to meet production requirements, may lose revenue and may not be able to maintain its relationships with its customers. Without Jabil’s continuing manufacture of Zebra’s products and the continuing operation of Jabil’s facility, Zebra will have no other means of final assembly of its thermal printers until Zebra is able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility, which could be costly and time consuming and have a material adverse effect on Zebra’s operating and financial results. The increased elements of risk that arise from conducting certain operating processes in foreign jurisdictions may lead to an increase in reputational risk. During periods of transition, greater operational risk and customer concern may exist regarding the continuity of a high level of service delivery. The extent and pace at which Zebra is able to move manufacturing functions to Jabil’s facility and the extent to which its customers are affected by the transfer may be impacted by regulatory and customer acceptance issues. Although Zebra carries business interruption insurance to cover lost revenue and profits in an amount it considers adequate, this insurance does not cover all possible situations. In addition, the business interruption insurance would not compensate Zebra for the loss of opportunity and potential adverse impact, both short-term and long-term, on relations with Zebra’s existing customers resulting from Zebra’s inability to produce products for them. A third party service provider such as Jabil will have access to Zebra’s intellectual property, which increases the risk of infringement or misappropriation of this intellectual property. 16 Table of Contents Zebra has significant operations outside the United States and sells a significant portion of its products internationally and purchases important components from foreign suppliers. In addition, the transfer of final assembly of its thermal printers to a Chinese facility began in 2008 and is expected to conclude in 2009. These circumstances create a number of risks. Zebra has significant overseas operations including, in particular, an increasing presence in China, which presents added risks. In addition, Zebra sells a significant amount of its products to customers outside the United States. Shipments to international customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of net sales. Risks associated with operations, sales and purchases outside the United States include: • Inadequately managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters, • Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, or increase costs of purchasing, in foreign countries, • Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following: • Foreign governments may impose burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers or capital flow restrictions, • Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in or purchase from certain markets, • Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products, or put our foreign assets at risk, • Potentially limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringing products or cause Zebra to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories, • Staffing and managing international operations may be unusually difficult, • A government controlled foreign exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of the Chinese Renminbi Yuan, • The failure to implement and maintain adequate internal controls relating to these operations, • Transportation delays that may affect production and distribution of Zebra’s products, and • A limited telecommunications infrastructure. Zebra may not be able to continue to develop products to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by rapid technological change. To be successful, Zebra must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving its products as well as introducing new products and services to address user demands. Zebra’s industry is characterized by: • Rapidly changing technology, • Evolving industry standards, • Frequent new product and service introductions, • Evolving distribution channels, and • Changing customer demands. Future success will depend on Zebra’s ability to adapt in this rapidly evolving environment. Zebra could incur substantial costs if it has to modify its business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes. Zebra competes in a highly competitive market, which is likely to become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. Zebra faces significant competition in developing and selling its systems. Principal competitors have substantial marketing, financial, development and personnel resources. To remain competitive, Zebra believes it must continue to provide: • Technologically advanced systems that satisfy the user demands, • Superior customer service, • High levels of quality and reliability, and • Dependable and efficient distribution networks. Zebra cannot assure it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Increased competition in printers or supplies may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing and customer 17 Table of Contents support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products. Any of these factors could reduce Zebra’s earnings. Zebra is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the rapid increase in the complexity of its business. Zebra has grown rapidly over the last several years through domestic and international growth and acquisitions. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our rapid growth and increased complexities of our business and the demands from increased responsibility on our management personnel. The following factors could present difficulties to us: • Manufacturing an increased number of products, • Increased administrative and operational burden, • Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth, • Increased logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations, and • Managing increasing international operations. If we do not manage these potential difficulties successfully, our operating results could be adversely affected. Zebra sources some of its component parts from sole source suppliers. A disruption in the supply of such component parts could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Infringement by Zebra or Zebra suppliers on the proprietary rights of others could put Zebra at a competitive disadvantage, and any related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Third parties may claim that Zebra or Zebra suppliers violated their intellectual property rights. To the extent of a violation of a third party’s patent or other intellectual property right, Zebra may be prevented from operating its business as planned, and may be required to pay damages, to obtain a license, if available, or to use a non-infringing method, if possible, to accomplish its objectives. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. If such claims are successful, they could result in costly judgments or settlements. Also, as new technologies emerge, such as RFID, the intellectual property rights of parties in such technologies can be uncertain. As a result, products involving such technologies may have higher risk of claims of infringement of the intellectual proprietary rights of third parties. The inability to protect intellectual property could harm Zebra’s reputation, and its competitive position may be materially damaged. Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides Zebra with certain competitive advantages. Copyrights, patents, trade secrets and contracts are used to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy aspects of Zebra’s products or, without authorization, to obtain and use information which Zebra regards as trade secrets. Zebra may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Zebra may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damage or personal injury, in the event our products present actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in Zebra’s own designed products but also in components provided by third party suppliers. A Zebra supplier has in the past provided us with defective lithium-ion battery packs which were subject to a product recall. Zebra generally has insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and also seeks to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the large and growing size of Zebra’s installed printer base, a design or manufacturing defect involving this large installed printer base could result in product recalls or customer service costs that could have material adverse effects on Zebra’s financial results. Larger orders may take longer to close and may not be completely fulfilled during a particular quarter. Zebra has been pursuing larger customer orders which typically involve a longer sales cycle. Such orders are more difficult to forecast, and whether a larger order is received by Zebra in a particular quarter or deferred to a later quarter could have a material effect on the financial results of Zebra from quarter to quarter. 18 Table of Contents Zebra’s equipment is subject to U.S. and foreign regulations that pertain to electrical and electronic equipment, which may materially adversely affect Zebra’s business. These regulations influence the design, components or operation of such products. New regulations and changes to current regulations are always possible and, in some jurisdictions, regulations may be introduced with little or no time to bring related products into compliance with these regulations. Zebra’s failure to comply with these regulations may prevent Zebra from selling our products in a certain country. In addition, these regulations may increase our cost of supplying the products by forcing us to redesign existing products or to use more expensive designs or components. In these cases, Zebra may experience unexpected disruptions in our ability to supply customers with products, or we may incur unexpected costs or operational complexities to bring products into compliance. This could have an adverse effect on Zebra’s revenues, gross profit margins and results of operations and increase the volatility of our financial results. Zebra is implementing a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The implementation process is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect Zebra’s business and results of operations. Zebra is currently replacing its multiple legacy business systems at its different sites with a new company-wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to handle various business, operating and financial processes for Zebra and its subsidiaries. The new system will provide a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, logistics, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system hardware and software and implementation activities that can continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts are required for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed shipments or production, missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt Zebra’s ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of the results of its consolidated operations, its financial position and cash flows, which could impact Zebra’s ability to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Until the new ERP system is fully implemented, Zebra expects to incur additional selling, general and administrative expenses to stabilize the system, and there can be no assurance that other issues relating to the ERP system will not occur or be identified. Zebra’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected if it experiences operating problems and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system and the associated process changes, do not function as expected or give rise to the expected benefits Economic factors that are outside Zebra’s control could lead to deterioration in the quality of Zebra’s accounts receivables. Zebra sells its products to customers in the United States and several other countries around the world. Sales are typically made on unsecured credit terms, which are generally consistent with the prevailing business practices in a given country. A deterioration of economic or political conditions in a country could impair Zebra’s ability to collect on receivables in the affected country. Zebra depends on the ongoing service of its senior management and ability to attract and retain other key personnel. The future success of Zebra is substantially dependent on the continued service and continuing contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the service of any executive officer or other key employees could adversely affect business. The ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees is important to Zebra’s long-term success. Competition for personnel in Zebra’s industry is intense, and Zebra may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Terrorist attacks or war could lead to further economic instability and adversely affect Zebra’s stock price, operations, and profitability. The terrorist attacks that occurred in the United States on September 11, 2001, caused major instability in the U.S. and other financial markets. Possible further acts of terrorism and current and future war 19 Table of Contents risks could have a similar impact. Any such attacks could, among other things, cause further instability in financial markets and could directly, or indirectly through reduced demand, negatively affect Zebra’s facilities and operations or those of its customers or suppliers. Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. Zebra is subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to Zebra’s effective tax rate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents 