ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to various risks, including the risks described below. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Our results of operations and financial condition are susceptible to changes in mortgage interest rates and general economic conditions. The demand for our title insurance and other real estate transaction products and services is dependent upon, among other things, the volume of commercial and residential real estate transactions, including mortgage refinancing transactions. The volume of these transactions has historically been influenced by factors such as interest rates and the state of the overall economy. When interest rates are increasing or during an economic downturn or recession, real estate activity typically declines and we tend to experience lower revenue and profitability. In addition, foreign hostilities could adversely impact the demand for real estate transactions. The cyclical nature of our business has caused fluctuations in revenue and profitability in the past and is expected to do so in the future. In addition, changes in interest rates may have an adverse impact on our return on our investments, the market value of our investment portfolio and interest paid on our bank debt. Changes to the participants in the secondary mortgage market could affect the demand for title insurance products. The demand for our title insurance products and services depends upon, among other things, the volume of commercial and residential real estate transactions, including mortgage refinancing transactions. In turn, the volume of commercial and residential real estate transactions depends in part upon the requirements of participants in the secondary mortgage market, who purchase large volumes of real estate loans secured by commercial and residential real property (including but not limited to Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association) to obtain title insurance policies on such real property. Therefore, changes to the composition of the participants in the secondary mortgage market or their requirements that title insurance policies be obtained could adversely affect the demand for our title insurance products. We are subject to government regulation. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations that are administered and enforced by insurance regulators and other governmental authorities. These laws and regulations are generally intended for the protection of policyholders and consumers rather than security holders. The nature and extent of these laws and regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and their applicability varies from subsidiary to subsidiary, but typically involve: • prior approval of the acquisition and control of an insurance company or of any company controlling an insurance company; • regulation of certain transactions, including dividend payments, entered into by an insurance company with any of its affiliates; • approval of premium rates for insurance; • standards of solvency and minimum amounts of capital surplus that must be maintained; • limitations on types and amounts of investments; 18 Table of Contents • restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured by a single company; • licensing of insurers, agents, inspectors, appraisers, home warranty, loan subservicing and other companies and/or employees and independent contractors; • deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; • approval of policy forms; • methods of accounting; • establishing reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses; • regulation of underwriting, marketing and business practices; • regulation of reinsurance; • regulation of escrow accounts; • regulation regarding the use of personal information; and • filing of annual and other reports with respect to financial condition and other matters. Centennial is subject to regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the California Department of Financial Institutions. Banking regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors and the federal deposit insurance funds and not shareholders. Regulatory requirements affect, among other things, our banking subsidiary’s practices, capital level, investment practices, dividend policies and growth. These laws and regulations are subject to change and may impede, impose burdensome conditions on, or cause rate adjustments or other actions that could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, state regulatory examiners perform periodic examinations of insurance companies. We can make no assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal laws, regulations, policies or interpretations that may change the nature or scope of title insurance or other regulation. Heightened regulatory scrutiny of us and the title insurance industry, including pricing of title insurance products and services, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have been subject to information requests and subpoenas from various regulatory authorities relating to investigations of our business practices and those of the title insurance industry. The Government Accountability Office and various states are studying the title insurance product, market, pricing, business practices, and potential regulatory and legislative changes. Multiple states are examining pricing levels and/or title insurance regulations. If it is determined that prices are not justified, rate changes may be implemented, including potential reductions. These rate actions could result in decreased levels of revenue. If we fail to reduce our staffing and other costs to a level consistent with decreased revenues, there could be a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Any restrictions imposed or actions taken by states with respect to us or the title insurance industry in general may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may not be able to fuel our growth through acquisitions. Our growth has been facilitated by acquisitions, which may or may not be available on acceptable terms in the future, and which, if consummated, may or may not be advantageous to us. While we expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy to expand the services we provide and their distribution, no assurances can be given that we will do so or that we will continue to acquire businesses at the levels previously experienced. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions on satisfactory terms. Our competitors also have adopted the strategy of expanding and diversifying through acquisitions, and as a result, we may be forced to pay more to acquire companies. 19 Table of Contents Our inability to integrate and manage successfully our acquired businesses could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our acquisitions and joint ventures may or may not be outside of our traditional business operations. The process of integrating any acquired business involves a number of special risks, including our inexperience in managing businesses that provide products and services beyond our traditional business; new regulatory requirements; diversion of management’s attention; failure to retain key acquired personnel (resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business); increased costs to improve managerial, operational, financial and administrative systems; legal liabilities; amortization of acquired intangible assets; and failure in the implementation of controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company that the acquired business lacked prior to acquisition. In addition, there can be no assurance that acquired businesses will achieve anticipated levels of revenue, earnings or performance. Our failure to manage acquisitions successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Regulatory non-compliance, fraud or defalcations by our title insurance agents or employees could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our title insurance agents are entities that often represent more than one title insurance underwriter and operate their businesses independently, but subject to various underwriting guidelines from their title underwriter(s). In addition to potential liability on policies written by our agents, governmental authorities or litigants may seek to assign liability to us for the actions of our agents in circumstances where they were acting outside the scope of their authority as agents. In certain circumstances, we may incur losses for the fraud, defalcation, regulatory noncompliance and other misconduct of our agents and employees. To the extent that any loss is substantial, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Competition in our industry affects our revenue. The business of providing real estate transaction products and services is very competitive. Competition for residential title insurance business is based primarily on quality of service and price within regulatory parameters. With respect to national and regional mortgage lenders, service quality includes a large distribution network and the ability to deliver a broad array of real estate services quickly, efficiently and through a single point of contact. Competition for commercial title business is based primarily on price within regulatory parameters, service, expertise in complex transactions and the size and financial strength of the insurer. Title insurance underwriters also compete for agents on the basis of service and commission levels. Although we are one of the largest providers of real estate transaction products and services in the United States, four other companies—Fidelity National Financial, Inc. (formerly Fidelity National Title Group, Inc.), The First American Corporation, Old Republic International Corporation and Stewart Information Services, Inc.—have the size, capital base and agency networks to compete effectively with our products and services, both in the United States and abroad. In addition, some of our competitors may have, or will have in the future, greater capital and other resources than us. Competition among the major providers of real estate transaction products and services and any new entrants could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Significant industry changes and new product and service introductions require timely and cost-effective responses. As a national provider of real estate transaction products and services, we participate in an industry that is subject to significant change, frequent new product and service introductions, evolving industry standards and increased customer leverage. In addition, alternatives to traditional title insurance, such as lien protection products, have emerged in recent years. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and customer demands and to offer products and services with state of the art technological attributes that meet evolving standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development and implementation of new products, services and technology may require significant capital expenditures and other resources and involve new risks we have not previously managed. There is a risk that customers may not accept our new products, services or technology and we may not successfully identify, develop and introduce new product and service opportunities or simplify and update our technology to be more operationally efficient and/or better able to deliver superior customer 20 Table of Contents service in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, products and services that our competitors and other real estate industry participants develop or introduce may render certain of our products and services obsolete or noncompetitive. We license software and technology from third parties, including some competitors, and incorporate it into or sell it in conjunction with our own software products, some of which is critical to the operation of our business. If any of the third party software vendors were to change product offerings, increase prices or terminate our licenses, we might need to seek alternative vendors and incur additional internal or external development costs to ensure continued performance of our products. Such alternatives may not be available on attractive terms, or may not be as widely accepted or as effective as the software provided by our existing vendors. The costs associated with licensing or maintenance of these third party software products or other technology or simplification and updating of our technology could cause our gross margin levels to decrease significantly. Further, our third party vendors may not have the capacity to develop and support software and systems that are necessary to process large volumes of transactions. In addition, interruption in functionality of our products could adversely affect future sales of licenses and services. Advances in technology could also reduce the useful lives of our products, preventing us from recovering fully our investment in particular products and services. As a result, our inability to anticipate industry changes and to respond with competitive and profitable products and services could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our litigation risks include substantial claims by large classes of claimants. From time to time we are involved in litigation arising in the ordinary course of our business. In addition, we currently are and have in the past been subject to claims and litigation not arising in the ordinary course of business from large classes of claimants seeking substantial damages. Material pending legal proceedings not arising in the ordinary course of business are disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. See Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” set forth elsewhere in this report. An unfavorable outcome in any class action suit or other claim, inquiry, investigation or litigation against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Key accounting and essential product delivery systems are concentrated in a few locations. Our corporate headquarters, accounting and technology operations are concentrated in Richmond, Virginia. Our agency services center is located in Louisville, Kentucky, which is operated by Intellihub Solutions and Services, LLC, a joint venture in which we own a minority interest. These critical business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, and other events beyond our control. Although we are upgrading our disaster recovery functionality and have prepared a business continuity plan, a catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations or systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, there could be a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, our shareholder rights plan and applicable state corporation and insurance laws could limit another party’s ability to acquire us and could deprive shareholders of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for shares of common stock owned by them. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may make it difficult for another company to acquire us and for shareholders to receive any related takeover premium for our common stock. These provisions include, among other things: • a staggered board of directors in which the board of directors is divided into three classes, with one class elected each year to serve a three year term; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80 percent of the outstanding shares entitled to vote; 21 Table of Contents • a vote of at least 80 percent of the outstanding shares entitled to vote is required for the approval of a merger or consolidation with, or a sale, lease or exchange of substantially all our assets to, any shareholder that directly or indirectly owns or controls 10 percent or more of the voting power of us; and • the ability of our Board of Directors to issue up to 4,800,000 shares of preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined by our Board of Directors at the time of issuance without further action by shareholders. The issuance of any preferred stock could materially and adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and could reduce the value of our common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock could delay, discourage, prevent or make it more difficult or costly to acquire us or effect a change in control in our Board of Directors. In addition, our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan that could result in substantial dilution to persons or groups that acquire beneficial ownership of, or announce a tender offer for, 20 percent or more of our common stock. In connection with the rights plan, the Board of Directors has issued rights that attach to each share of common stock and authorized the issuance of 200,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. The shareholder rights plan expires on August 20, 2007. The laws of Virginia also contain provisions designed to deter certain takeovers of Virginia corporations. The “affiliated transaction” provisions of Virginia law prohibit, subject to certain exceptions, a Virginia corporation from engaging in specified transactions with the beneficial owner of more than 10 percent of any class of the corporation’s voting securities for a period of three years following the date upon which the shareholder acquires the requisite number of securities. The types of transactions covered by the law include certain mergers, share exchanges, material dispositions of corporate assets not in the ordinary course of business, dissolutions, reclassifications and recapitalizations. Other provisions of Virginia corporation law generally deny voting rights to shares of a public corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition,” which is an acquisition by any person of beneficial ownership of shares that meet or exceed a specified threshold percentage (20 percent, 33.33 percent or 50 percent) of the total votes entitled to be cast for the election of directors, unless approved by a majority vote of all outstanding shares other than those held by the acquiring person. Although our charter currently makes these provisions inapplicable to acquisitions of shares of our common stock, these provisions could become applicable in the future if an amendment to our charter is approved by our Board of Directors and shareholders. Many state insurance regulatory laws intended primarily for the protection of policyholders contain provisions that require advance approval by state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company or insurance holding company that is domiciled (or, in some cases, doing business) in that state. Under such current laws, any future transaction that would constitute a change in control would generally require approval by the state insurance departments of, California, Nebraska, New Jersey, Tennessee, and Texas. Such a requirement could have the effect of delaying or preventing certain transactions affecting the control or the ownership of our common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to our shareholders. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing personnel, especially sales and marketing personnel who control customer relationships critical to our business. If our efforts in these areas are not successful, our costs may increase, development and sales efforts may be hindered and our customer service may suffer. Although we invest significant resources in recruiting and retaining employees, there is intense competition for personnel in the title insurance industry. From time to time, we experience difficulties in locating enough highly qualified candidates in desired geographic locations, or with required industry-specific expertise. 22 Table of Contents Our conduct of business in foreign markets creates financial and operational risks and uncertainties that may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We currently provide title insurance and other real estate transaction products and services in foreign countries. As of December 31, 2006, we conducted business in a number of foreign markets, including Mexico, Canada, the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and Asia. In certain countries where we do business, our products and services have a limited history and are not well-established. As a result, market acceptance of our products and services is uncertain, and we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Government regulations may determine how we operate in various countries, which could limit our growth and strategy plans. Our foreign business is subject to potential changes in political and economic conditions in the local markets in which they operate, which could adversely affect their performance. We are also subject to foreign taxes in the countries in which we operate, and changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws may reduce our earnings or may increase our tax cost. Our claims experience may require us to increase our provision for title losses or to record additional reserves, either of which may adversely affect our earnings. Estimating future loss payments is difficult, and our assumptions about future losses may prove inaccurate, particularly losses involving new products and services and business in foreign markets. Claims are often complex and involve uncertainties as to the dollar amount and timing of individual payments. Claims are often paid many years after a policy is issued. From time to time, we experience large losses from title policies that have been issued, which require us to increase our title loss reserves. These events are unpredictable and may adversely affect our earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 