Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations, financial condition or results from operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Our Common Stock We have a history of net losses and we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly and annual basis. Until the year ended December 31, 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our inception. It is possible we will not be able to achieve profitability again or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenditures to further develop and commercialize our products and product candidates and in order to allow us to otherwise expand our product portfolio through drug discovery and business development efforts. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability for any substantial period of time. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, the market price of our common stock may decline. Almost all of our revenues are derived from sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and our future success depends on the continued commercial success of these products as well as our other products. Approximately 89% of our total revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 resulted from sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, and we expect that sales from these two products will continue to represent a significant majority of our revenues for the coming year. In April 2005, we commercially introduced LUNESTA as a new product in a highly and increasingly competitive market, and we cannot be certain that it will achieve continued commercial success. In addition, we do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers, and we rely primarily on purchase orders for sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution. Reductions, delays or cancellations of orders for LUNESTA or XOPENEX Inhalation Solution could adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, revenues from the sale of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution have been, and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected on a comparable basis as a result of a change in the Medicare Part B reimbursement rate. If sales of LUNESTA do not increase and if sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution in other markets do not offset the reduction in revenues resulting from the change in Medicare Part B reimbursement for the product, or if we do not prevail against those manufacturers seeking to market a generic version of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution product, we may not have sufficient revenues to achieve our business plan or repay our outstanding debt, and our business will not be successful. Any other adverse developments with respect to the sale of LUNESTA or XOPENEX Inhalation Solution could significantly reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain profitability and achieve our business plan. In December 2005, we commercially introduced XOPENEX HFA and in April 2007, we commercially introduced BROVANA. In addition, we expect to launch OMNARIS AQ and ALVESCO HFA in 2008. We cannot be certain that XOPENEX HFA, BROVANA, OMNARIS AQ or ALVESCO HFA will achieve commercial success. 27 With respect to XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, Breath, Dey, L.P., Barr and Watson have filed ANDAs including Paragraph IV certifications with the FDA seeking to market a generic version of levalbuterol hydrochloride inhalation solution before our patents expire. We have commenced patent infringement litigation against Breath, Dey, L.P., and Barr, but we have decided not to commence litigation against Watson at this time as its Paragraph IV certification is limited to a patent that expires in 2021. The filing of a lawsuit for patent infringement under the Hatch-Waxman Act results in an automatic 30-month stay of the FDA's authority to grant marketing approval to these companies. The 30-month stay against Breath's ANDA is scheduled to expire for our 1.25 mg/3 mL, 0.63 mg/3 mL and 0.31 mg/3 mL XOPENEX Inhalation Solution on or about March 7, 2008. In December 2007, the FDA granted tentative approval to Breath's ANDA for all three dosages. A non-jury trial in our litigation against Breath is scheduled to begin on July 14, 2008 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, C.A. No. 06-113. No trial date has been set in our patent infringement litigation against Dey, L.P. and Barr. Upon expiration of that 30-month stay in March 2008, the FDA could grant final approval and Breath could then commence an "at risk" distribution of its generic levalbuterol product for those dosages notwithstanding our patents and notwithstanding that the court's decision as to the merits of the litigation will not have been rendered, unless we were able to obtain an injunction prohibiting such distribution. However, if a forfeiture event occurs and the FDA determines that Breath has forfeited the 180-day semi-exclusivity period for those three dosages, other ANDA filers who have been granted final approval by the FDA could commence an "at risk" launch upon expiration of the 30-month stay. For those three dosages, the 30-month stays against Dey, L.P. and Barr expire on or about July 9, 2008 and November 30, 2009, respectively. If any of these parties were to commence selling a generic alternative to our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution product prior to the resolution of these ongoing legal proceedings, or there is a court determination that the products these companies wish to market do not infringe our patents, or that our patents are invalid or unenforceable, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. In addition, our previously issued guidance regarding our projected financial results may no longer be accurate and we would have to revise such guidance. With respect to BROVANA, in April 2007, we were served with a Complaint filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, C.A. No. 1:07-cv-2353, by Dey alleging that the manufacture and sale of BROVANA infringes or will induce infringement of a single U.S. patent for which Dey owns all rights, title and interest. In April 2007, we filed an Answer and Counterclaim to this Complaint seeking to invalidate the originally asserted patent and a second related patent. In May 2007, Dey filed a reply asserting infringement of the second patent. Under the current scheduling order, trial will begin no earlier than January 12, 2009. It is too early to make a reasonable assessment as to the likely outcome or impact of this litigation. We are unable to reasonably estimate any possible range of loss or liability related to this lawsuit due to its uncertain resolution. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to successfully commercialize LUNESTA and/or XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, that we will be able to successfully launch OMNARIS AQ or ALVESCO HFA, or that any of our products will be accepted in their markets. Specifically, the following factors, among others, could affect the level of success and market acceptance of our products: •a change in the perception of the health care community of their safety and/or efficacy, both in an absolute sense and relative to that of competing products; •the introduction of new products into the sleep or respiratory markets; •the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; •any unfavorable publicity regarding these products or similar products; •litigation or threats of litigation with respect to these products; 28 •a finding that our patents are invalid or unenforceable or that generic versions of our products do not infringe our patents or the "at risk" launch of generic versions of our products; •the price of the product relative to other competing drugs or treatments; •private insurers, such as managed care organizations, adopting their own coverage restrictions or demanding price concessions in response to state, Federal or administrative action; •any changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement policies and practices; and •regulatory developments or other factors affecting the manufacture, marketing or use of these products. Sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution have been adversely affected as a result of the change in the Medicare Part B reimbursement rate, and if our strategy for responding to such change is not successful, our revenue will be further adversely affected. In May 2007, CMS announced that based on its interpretation of the statutory language of the MMA, it was required to discontinue the stand-alone reimbursement for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol, which had been in place since January 2005, and instead calculate the reimbursement for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol based on the blended weighted average selling price, or ASP, for the two products. This new reimbursement became effective on July 1, 2007. Using a blended weighted ASP for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution results in reimbursement for the product that is considerably lower than the published selling price for the product in the wholesaler distribution channel. The new reimbursement rate is subject to change quarterly based upon the respective contribution of commercial sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol to the quarterly blended weighted ASP calculation. This quarterly ASP calculation is mandated by the MMA. Revenues from the sale of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution have been, and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected on a comparable basis as a result of this change. The bundling action also resulted in an unintended increase in Medicare Part B reimbursement for generic albuterol, significantly higher than the product's ASP (as publicly reported by the Medicare Part B program), creating the potential for inappropriate reimbursement incentives to influence the dispensing decisions of providers. On December 29, 2007, President Bush signed into law legislation, the effect of which mandates that XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol be reimbursed at the lower of their stand-alone weighted ASP and the blended weighted ASP for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol. The effect of this legislation is that XOPENEX Inhalation Solution will continue to be reimbursed at the blended rate and generic albuterol will be reimbursed at its stand-alone weighted ASP. The legislation goes into effect on April 1, 2008. We estimate that as much as 20% of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution units sold are subject to reimbursement under Medicare Part B. We have been actively contracting with home health care and retail pharmacy providers in an effort to ensure the continued availability of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution to Medicare Part B beneficiaries with reversible obstructive airway disease. If the contracting strategy for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution is not successful in maintaining as much of the current unit sales levels for the product in Medicare as commercially possible, if the blended Medicare Part B reimbursement rate for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol falls to an amount where it is no longer financially feasible to market XOPENEX Inhalation Solution to Medicare Part B participants and/or if the Durable Medical Equipment Program Safeguard Contractors, or DME-PSCs, the entities responsible for overseeing the Medicare Part B prescription drug benefit for respiratory products, impose restrictive coverage policies on XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, revenue from sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution will be adversely affected and our financial condition and results from operations will be impaired. 29 We have significant debt and we may not be able to make principal payments when due. As of December 31, 2007, our total debt was approximately $720.8 million. None of our 0% Series A notes due December 2008, our 0% Series B notes due December 2010 nor our 0% notes due October 2024 restricts us or our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, including debt that ranks senior to the notes. The 0% notes due 2024 are senior to the Series A notes due 2008 and Series B notes due 2010. Additional indebtedness that we incur may in certain circumstances rank senior to or on parity with this debt. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend upon our future performance, which is subject to many factors, including factors beyond our control. The conversion prices for the 0% Series A notes due 2008 and 0% Series B notes due 2010 are $31.89 and $29.84, respectively. In December 2008, $72.8 million will be due on our 0% Series A notes due 2008. On January 31, 2008, the closing sale price of our common stock was $28.24. If the market price for our common stock does not exceed the conversion price, the holders of our outstanding convertible debt may decide not to convert their securities into common stock. For example, the holders of our 5% debentures did not convert such debentures into common stock, and on February 15, 2007, the maturity date for the 5% debentures, we repaid in cash the entire principal amount of $440.0 million, plus $11.0 million of accrued interest. Our 0% notes due 2024 are convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock at a conversion price of approximately $67.20, at the option of the holders in October 2009, 2014, 2019 and 2024, as well as under certain circumstances. We may not be able to make the required cash payments upon conversion of the 0% notes due 2024. Historically, we have had negative cash flow from operations, and in 2006, we experienced our first full year of positive cash flow from operating activities. Unless we have sufficient cash or are able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay off the principal of our outstanding debt, we will be required to raise additional funds or default on our obligations under the debentures and notes. If revenue generated from sales of our products do not meet expected levels, it is unlikely that we would have sufficient cash flow to repay our outstanding convertible debt and/or make cash payments upon conversion of the 0% notes due 2024. There can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to raise the additional funds on favorable terms, if at all. If we exchange debt for shares of common stock, there will be additional dilution to holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $720.8 million of outstanding debt that could be converted into common stock. In order to reduce future payments due at maturity, we may, from time to time, depending on market conditions, repurchase additional outstanding convertible debt for cash; exchange debt for shares of our common stock, warrants, preferred stock, debt or other consideration; or a combination of any of the foregoing. If we exchange shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our capital stock, for outstanding convertible debt or use proceeds from the issuance of convertible debt to fund redemption of outstanding convertible debt with a higher conversion ratio, the number of shares that we might issue as a result of such exchanges would significantly exceed the number of shares originally issuable upon conversion of such debt and, accordingly, such exchanges would result in material dilution to holders of our common stock. We cannot provide assurance that we will repurchase or exchange any additional outstanding convertible debt. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that could adversely affect our ability to meet reporting obligations and negatively affect the trading price of our stock. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains 30 material errors. As more fully described in Item 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K, Controls and Procedures, we have determined that we did not establish and/or maintain effective controls over the process to identify transactions with the potential to establish a new Medicaid best price, which affected the accuracy of the net revenue and product sales allowance and return accounts. Specifically, our controls over the calculation of Medicaid rebates were not designed to effectively monitor whether certain entities were appropriately exempt from the Medicaid best price calculation. Our management has determined that this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness and contributed to our conclusion on January 28, 2008 that our financial statements could no longer be relied upon and needed to be restated. While we have taken, and will continue to take, steps to remediate the identified material weakness, these steps may not be adequate to fully remediate the material weakness. In addition, we may identify additional control deficiencies in the future that individually or in the aggregate constitute a material weakness. If we fail to adequately remediate the identified material weakness or there are other undetected or uncorrected deficiencies in our internal controls, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, we could have material misstatements in our financial statements and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to legal liability. In addition, inferior controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, net revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We cannot provide assurance, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will not be materially different from actual results. For example, our royalty revenue is recognized based upon our estimates of our collaboration partners' sales during the period and, if these sales estimates are greater than the actual sales that occur during the period, our net income would be reduced. In addition, we estimate product sales allowances, including payment term discounts, government and commercial rebates and returns and other discounts. If actual amounts differ from these estimates, net income could be adversely affected. Each, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition, results from operations and stock price. If sufficient funds to finance our business are not available to us when needed or on acceptable terms, then we may be required to delay, scale back, eliminate or alter our strategy for our programs. We may require additional funds for our research and product development programs, operating expenses, repayment of debt, the pursuit of regulatory approvals, license or acquisition opportunities and the expansion of our production, sales and marketing capabilities. Historically, we have satisfied our funding needs through collaboration arrangements with corporate partners, sales of products, and equity and debt financings. These funding sources may not be available to us when needed in the future, and, if available, they may not be on terms acceptable to us. Insufficient funds could require us to delay, scale back, eliminate or alter certain of our research and product development programs and/or commercialization efforts or to enter into license agreements with third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise develop or commercialize ourselves. Our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of factors including: •patent developments; •licensing or acquisition opportunities; 31 •drug discovery efforts; •relationships with collaboration partners; •the FDA regulatory process; •expansion into foreign markets; •litigation and government inquiries and investigations; •our capital requirements; and •selling, marketing and manufacturing expenses in connection with commercialization of products. Our long-term investments include auction rate securities that may not be accessible within the next twelve months and may experience a decline in value, which may adversely affect our liquidity and income. Our long-term investments as of December 31, 2007 were $174.0 million, which includes $99.9 million invested in highly-rated (AAA) student-loan-backed auction rate securities, of which some are associated with failed auctions in 2008. Auction rate securities are securities that are structured with short-term interest rate reset dates of generally less than ninety days but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. At the end of each reset period investors can typically sell at auction or continue to hold the securities at par. These securities are subject to fluctuations in fair value depending on the supply and demand at each auction. As a result of the recent instability in the market for auction rate securities, there may be a future decline in the value of our auction rate securities. Should a decline in the value of these securities occur that is not temporary, it would result in a loss being recognized in our statement of operations, which could be material. In 2008, the funds associated with our auction rate securities that have failed auction, may not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the security is called, or the underlying securities have matured. Fluctuations in the demand for our products, the success and timing of clinical trials, regulatory approvals, product introductions, collaboration and licensing arrangements, any termination of development efforts and other material events will cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to be volatile. These fluctuations will depend on many factors, including: •timing and extent of product sales and market penetration; •timing and extent of operating expenses, including selling and marketing expenses and the costs of reducing, expanding and/or maintaining a direct sales force or attaining the services of a co-promotion partner or contract sales force; •success and timing of regulatory filings and approvals for products developed by us or our licensing or collaborative partners; •timing and success of product introductions, including OMNARIS AQ and ALVESCO HFA; •changes in third-party reimbursement policies; •introduction of competitive products into the market; •results of clinical trials with respect to products under development; •a finding that our patents are invalid or unenforceable or that generic versions of our products do not infringe our patents or the "at risk" launch of generic versions of our products; 32 •the initiation of, or adverse developments in, any judicial litigation proceedings or governmental investigations in which we are involved; •a change in the perception of the health care and/or investor communities with respect to our products; •success and timing of collaboration agreements for development of our pharmaceutical candidates and development costs for those pharmaceuticals; •timing of receipt of upfront, milestone or royalty payments under collaboration or licensing agreements; •timing and success of any business and/or product acquisitions; •timing and success of expansion into foreign markets; •termination of development efforts of any product under development or any collaboration agreement; and •timing of expenses we may incur with respect to any license or acquisition of products or technologies. We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate our stockholders' ability to sell their shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: •preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or to discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock; •classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; •non-cumulative voting for directors; •control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors; •limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •inability of our stockholders to take any action by written consent; and •advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, in June 2002, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer of Sepracor to consummate an acquisition transaction. The price of our common stock historically has been volatile, which could cause the loss of part or all of an investment in Sepracor. The market price of our common stock, like that of the common stock of many other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, has been highly volatile. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The volatility and market prices of securities of 33 many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been significantly affected for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Prices for our common stock are determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including variations in our financial results and investors' perceptions of us, and changes in recommendations by securities analysts as well as their perceptions of general economic, industry and market conditions. Risks Related to Commercialization We face intense competition and many of our competitors have greater resources and capabilities than we have. We face intense competition in the sale of our current products, and expect to face intense competition in the sale of any future products we sell. If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected because we may not achieve our product revenue objectives and because we may use our financial resources to seek to differentiate ourselves from our competition. Large and small companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private organizations conduct research, seek patent protection, develop and acquire products, establish collaborative arrangements for product development and sell or license products in competition with us. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater resources, manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities, research and development staff and production facilities than we have. The fields in which we compete are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture and marketing of new products and/or technologies than we can. As a result, any products and/or technologies that we develop may become obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover expenses incurred in connection with their development. LUNESTA For insomnia treatments, LUNESTA faces intense competition from established branded and generic products in several drug classes including benzodiazepines, non-benzodiazepines, melatonin agonists, select anti-depressants, and others. We estimate that our existing LUNESTA prescriptions account for less than 10% of the total, annual prescriptions currently being written in the United States for insomnia pharmaceutical therapies. Furthermore, LUNESTA faces substantial competition from non-prescription, over-the-counter and dietary supplement insomnia product options. We expect that LUNESTA will face increasing competition from a generic version of AMBIEN (zolpidem tartrate), which was introduced in April 2007, a generic version of AMBIEN CR (zolpidem tartrate extended release), which could be introduced as early as March 2009, and therapies in clinical development and under FDA review for the treatment of insomnia. We may also face additional competition in the event of commercial introduction of a generic version of LUNESTA. To continue to be successful with LUNESTA, we must continue to demonstrate that LUNESTA's safety and efficacy features are superior to those of competing branded and generic products, some of which may be less expensive than LUNESTA. XOPENEX FRANCHISE For asthma and COPD treatments, XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA face intense competition from a variety of products. Asthma and COPD patients turn to numerous classes of drugs, including corticosteroids, long-acting beta-agonists, short-acting beta-agonists, leukotriene modifiers, anticholingerics, and others, as well as certain combinations thereof. XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA together account for approximately 3% of the total annual prescriptions 34 currently being written in the United States for asthma and COPD pharmaceutical therapies. XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA also face intense competition specifically within the beta-agonist classes of asthma and COPD treatments. We estimate that our existing XOPENEX prescriptions account for approximately 10% of the total annual prescriptions currently being written in the United States for beta-agonist asthma and COPD pharmaceutical therapies. Both mono-therapy and combination therapy beta-agonist treatments compete directly with our XOPENEX products for the treatment of asthma and COPD. Albuterol, a short-acting beta-agonist, has been available generically for many years. Products containing albuterol as an active ingredient are well established and sell at prices substantially lower than XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA. XOPENEX HFA also faces direct competition from CFC-containing albuterol MDIs and branded HFA albuterol MDIs. With the phase-out of CFC albuterol MDI products required by the end of December 2008, we expect that competition from branded HFA MDIs will increase substantially. Furthermore, as a consequence of the ongoing commercialization of BROVANA, prescription levels for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution may be adversely affected to the extent that a significant number of physicians prescribe BROVANA, which could reduce the need for concomitant XOPENEX products. We may also face additional competition in the event of the commercial introduction of generic versions of our XOPENEX products. To be successful with our XOPENEX products, we must demonstrate that the efficacy and safety features of these drugs outweigh the higher price as compared to generic albuterol and other competing products and that these attributes differentiate these products from other asthma and COPD treatments, including beta-agonist asthma and COPD treatments. BROVANA For COPD treatments solely, BROVANA faces competition from a variety of products. Competitive products include all products used in the treatment of COPD. COPD patients turn to numerous classes of drugs including anticholingerics, corticosteroids, mukolytics, long-acting beta-agonists, short-acting beta-agonists, theophyllines, and others. We estimate that our existing BROVANA prescriptions account for less than 1% of the total annual prescriptions currently being written in the United States for COPD pharmaceutical therapies, and less than 1% of beta-agonist COPD pharmaceutical therapies specifically. Even though BROVANA is a nebulized product, it also faces competition from long-acting beta-agonists and anticholinergics delivered by MDI and dry-powder inhaler. BROVANA also competes with combination therapy products used for COPD. In the fourth quarter of 2007, PERFOROMIST, a direct competitor with BROVANA, was launched, which we anticipate may impact adversely BROVANA's prescription levels. To be successful with BROVANA, we must demonstrate that patients with COPD will benefit by using BROVANA. OMNARIS AQ If and when it is commercialized, OMNARIS AQ, a corticosteroid nasal spray, will compete with perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis treatments, and will face competition from oral antihistamines, intranasal antihistamines, intranasal decongestants, other intranasal corticosteroids, intranasal mast cell stabilizers, and antileukotrienes. To be successful with OMNARIS AQ, we must demonstrate that OMNARIS AQ's safety and efficacy features are superior to those of competing branded and generic products, some of which may be less expensive than OMNARIS AQ and may be available without a prescription. We may also face additional competition in the event of commercial introduction of a generic version of OMNARIS AQ. For all of our products, we need to demonstrate to physicians, patients, and third-party payors that the cost of our product is reasonable and appropriate in light of its safety, efficacy, and health care benefits, each as compared to other competing products. In addition.if competitors introduce new products or develop new processes or new information about existing products, then our products, even 35 those protected by patents, may be replaced in the marketplace or we may be required to lower our prices. We may be unable to successfully commercialize products for which we receive approval from the FDA or similar foreign agencies. Commercialization of a product for which we have received an approval letter from the FDA or similar foreign agency could be delayed for a number of reasons, some of which are outside of our control, including delays in delivery of the product due to importation regulations and/or problems with our distribution channels or delays in the issuance of approvals from, or the completion of, required procedures by agencies other than the FDA, such as the United States Drug Enforcement Administration. In addition, commercialization of approved products may be delayed by our failure to timely finalize distribution arrangements, manufacturing processes and arrangements, produce sufficient inventory and/or properly prepare our sales force. If we are unable to successfully commercialize a product promptly after receipt of an approval letter, our business and financial position may be materially adversely affected due to reduced revenue from product sales during the period or periods that commercialization is delayed and the shortening of any lead time to market we may have had over our competitors. In addition, the exclusivity period, which is the time during which the FDA or similar foreign agency will prevent generic pharmaceutical companies from introducing a generic copy of the product, begins to run upon approval and, therefore, to the extent we are unable to successfully commercialize a product promptly after receipt of an approval letter, our long-term product sales and revenues could be adversely affected. Even if the FDA or similar foreign agencies grant us regulatory approval of a product, if we fail to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, we may be forced to suspend and/or cease commercialization of the product due to suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizures of products and/or operating restrictions and may be subject to fines and criminal prosecution. In any such event, our ability to successfully commercialize the product would be impaired and sales and revenues could be materially adversely affected. We may increase or decrease the size of our sales force in the future based on inaccurate assumptions. Future increases in our sales force will result in significant expenses. Such increases may be done in anticipation of approvals and/or expected sales growth that are not realized. If such approvals and/or growth are not realized, we will have incurred unnecessary expense and may also be forced to reduce our sales force. Future reductions in our sales force could prevent us from achieving anticipated revenues and attracting and retaining qualified sales personnel and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We sell our products, XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, XOPENEX HFA, BROVANA and LUNESTA, primarily through our direct sales force. During the fourth quarter of 2007, we reduced our direct sales force by approximately 300 positions. In February 2008, we announced that we intend to increase our sales force capacity by at least 200 sales professionals, in order to accommodate the commercialization of OMNARIS AQ and ALVESCO HFA. We expect that the costs of the anticipated increase in sales force capacity will offset the decrease in sales and marketing expenses we expected to realize as a result of the December 2007 sales force reduction. Any future expansion of the direct sales force will also require us to incur significant expenses. To the extent we expand our direct sales force in anticipation of receiving marketing approval for products under development, commercially introducing newly developed or acquired products and/or expected sales growth, we may again be forced to reduce our sales force if our expectations are not realized. In addition, our recent sales force reduction, and any future sales force reduction, may make it more difficult for us to attract the qualified sales people necessary to implement necessary sales force expansion, attract and retain qualified sales people necessary to maintain sales levels and/or to support potential sales growth and sales of additional products we may commercialize in the future. 36 We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force, and if we are not successful in attracting and retaining qualified sales personnel, we may not be successful in commercializing our products. We have established a sales force to market our products. Our ability to realize significant revenues from direct marketing and sales activities depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense. Our recent sales force reduction could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel, which would prevent us from successfully expanding our marketing and direct sales force on a timely or cost effective basis and from successfully commercializing these newly acquired products. In addition, any failure to attract and retain qualified sales personnel in the future, could impair our ability to maintain sales levels, successfully commercialize new products and/or support expected future sales growth. Our recent sales force reduction, and any future sales force reduction, could also result in temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity among our sales personnel. If our sales organization does not devote the time and resources necessary to attain sales projections, we may not be able to achieve anticipated revenues and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In February 2008, we announced that we intend to increase our sales force capacity by at least 200 sales professionals in order to accommodate the commercialization of OMNARIS AQ and ALVESCO HFA. We anticipate that this increase will be effectuated through an expansion of our direct sales force or through the services of a contract sales organization. We may also need to enter into additional co-promotion, contract sales force or other such arrangements with third parties, for example, where our own direct sales force is not large enough or sufficiently well aligned to achieve maximum penetration in the market. We may not be successful in entering into any co-promotion, contract sales force or other such arrangements, and the terms of any co-promotion, contract sales force or other such arrangements may not be favorable to us. If we or our third-party manufacturers do not comply with current GMP regulations, then the FDA could refuse to approve marketing applications or force us to recall or withdraw our products. The FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to their GMP regulations. The failure by us, our collaborative development partners or our third-party manufacturers to comply with current GMP regulations could lead to delay in our development programs or refusal by the FDA or other regulatory authorities to approve marketing applications. Following marketing approval of a product, failure in either respect could also impede commercial introduction or on-going distribution of the product and/or be the basis for action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities to withdraw approvals previously granted, to recall products and for other regulatory action. We could be exposed to significant liability claims that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. We may be subject to product liability claims that arise through testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale and use of pharmaceutical products. Product liability claims could distract our management and key personnel from our core business, require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages, which could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts and could adversely affect our business. Claims of this nature could also subject us to product recalls or adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for both the clinical trials and products we commercialize, it is possible that we will not be able to obtain further product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and that our insurance coverage may not provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. 37 Buying patterns of our wholesalers may vary from time to time, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Sales of our products to wholesalers represent a substantial portion of our total sales. Buying patterns of our wholesalers may vary from time to time, in part as a result of pricing or seasonality. Wholesalers, or direct customers of wholesalers, may accumulate inventory in one quarter and limit product purchases in subsequent quarters, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We have entered into wholesaler fee-for-service agreements, or FFSAs, with our three largest customers. Under the FFSAs, we pay the wholesalers a fee to maintain certain minimum inventory levels that gradually decline over the next several quarters. We believe it is beneficial to enter into FFSAs to establish specified levels of product inventory to be maintained by our wholesalers and to obtain more precise information as to the level of our product inventory available throughout the product distribution channel. We record the cost associated with the FFSAs as revenue deductions. We cannot be certain that the FFSAs will be effective in limiting speculative purchasing activity, that there will not be a future drawdown of inventory as a result of declining minimum inventory requirements, or otherwise, or that the inventory level data provided through our FFSAs are accurate. If speculative purchasing does occur, if the wholesalers significantly decrease their inventory levels, or if inventory level data provided through FFSAs is inaccurate, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may also be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment If our products do not receive government approval, we will not be able to commercialize them. The FDA and similar foreign agencies must approve for commercialization any pharmaceutical products developed by us or our development partners. These agencies impose substantial requirements on drug manufacturing and marketing. Any unanticipated preclinical and clinical studies we are required to undertake could result in a significant increase in the cost of advancing our products to commercialization. In addition, failure by us or our collaborative development partners to obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, or at all, or the attempt by us or our collaborative development partners to receive regulatory approval to achieve labeling objectives, could prevent or adversely affect the timing of commercial introduction of, or our ability to market and sell, our products. If we fail to successfully develop and receive regulatory approval for product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize the product candidates and future sales and earnings growth will be substantially hampered. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend in large part on successful development and commercialization of additional products. Most of our product candidates are in the early stages of development. We cannot be assured that we will be able to develop or acquire and commercially introduce new products in a timely manner or that new products, if developed or acquired, will be approved for the indications and/or with the labeling we expect, or that they will achieve market acceptance. Before we commercialize any other product candidate in the United States, we will need to successfully develop the product candidate by completing successful clinical trials, submitting an NDA for the product candidate that is accepted for filing by the FDA and receiving FDA approval to market the candidate. We must comply with similar requirements in foreign jurisdictions before commercializing any products in the jurisdiction. If we fail to successfully develop a product candidate and/or the FDA or similar foreign agency delays or denies approval of any NDA, or foreign equivalent, that we have submitted or submit in the future, then commercialization of our products under development may be delayed or terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 38 A number of problems may arise during the development of our product candidates, including the following: •results of clinical trials may not be consistent with preclinical study results; •results from later phases of clinical trials may not be consistent with results from earlier phases; •results from clinical trials may not demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and efficacious; •we may not receive regulatory approval for our product candidates; •the product candidate may not offer therapeutic or other improvements over comparable drugs; •we may elect not to continue funding the development of our product candidates; or •funds may not be available to develop all of our product candidates. Even if the FDA or similar foreign agencies grant us regulatory approval of a product, the approval may take longer than we anticipate and may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing follow-up studies. Moreover, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, our growth is dependent on our continued ability to penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and competition is intense. We cannot be certain that the markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets, that our products will achieve customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors or regulators will not force prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share from us, or that we can achieve or maintain profits in these markets. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payors, and a reduction in payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as Federal and state government agencies under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. Third-party payors continually attempt to contain or reduce the cost of health care by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We may not be able to sell our products profitably if reimbursement is unavailable or coverage is limited in scope or amount. There have been, there are, and we expect there will continue to be, state and Federal legislative and/or administrative proposals that could limit the amount that state or Federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical products. Legislative or administrative acts that reduce reimbursement for our products could adversely affect our business. In addition, private insurers, such as managed care organizations, may adopt their own coverage restrictions or demand price concessions in response to legislation or administrative action. Reduction in reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States may put increasing pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely affect product sales. Further, when a new drug product is approved, governmental and/or private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed and the extent of coverage for the product. We cannot predict availability or amount of reimbursement for our approved products or product candidates and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. The MMA established a prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. We do not know the extent to which our products will continue to be included in the Medicare 39 prescription drug benefit, and we may be required to provide significant discounts or rebates to drug plans participating in the Medicare drug benefit. Moreover, Congress may enact legislation that permits the Federal government to directly negotiate price and demand discounts on pharmaceutical products that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. In addition, Managed Care Organizations, or MCOs, Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs, Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs, health care institutions and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. MCOs, HMOs, PPOs and private health plans administer the Medicare drug benefit, leading to managed care and private health plans influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In addition, certain states have proposed, and certain other states have adopted, various programs to control prices for their seniors' and low-income drug programs, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, restrictions on access to certain products, importation from other countries, such as Canada, and bulk purchasing of drugs. In May 2007, CMS announced, that based on its interpretation of the statutory language of the MMA, it was required to discontinue the stand-alone reimbursement for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol, which had been in place since January 2005, and instead calculate the reimbursement for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol based on the blended weighted ASP for the two products. This new reimbursement became effective on July 1, 2007. Using a blended weighted ASP for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution results in reimbursement for the product that is considerably lower than the published selling price for the product in the wholesaler distribution channel. The new reimbursement rate is subject to change quarterly based upon the respective contribution of commercial sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol to the quarterly blended weighted ASP calculation. This quarterly ASP calculation is mandated by the MMA. Revenues from the sale of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution have been, and we expect will continue to be, adversely affected on a comparable basis as a result of this change. The bundling action also resulted in an unintended increase in Medicare Part B reimbursement for generic albuterol, significantly higher than the product's average selling price (as publicly reported by the Medicare Part B program), creating the potential for inappropriate reimbursement incentives to influence the dispensing decisions of providers. On December 29, 2007, President Bush signed into law legislation, the effect of which mandates that XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol be reimbursed at the lower of their stand-alone weighted ASP and the blended weighted ASP for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol. The effect of this legislation is that XOPENEX Inhalation Solution will continue to be reimbursed at the blended rate and generic albuterol will be reimbursed at its stand-alone weighted ASP. The legislation goes into effect on April 1, 2008. We estimate that as much as 20% of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution units sold are subject to reimbursement under Medicare Part B. We have been actively contracting with home health care and retail pharmacy providers in an effort to ensure the continued availability of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution to Medicare Part B beneficiaries with reversible obstructive airway disease. If the contracting strategy for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution is not successful in maintaining as much of the current unit sales levels for the product in Medicare as commercially possible, if the blended Medicare Part B reimbursement rate for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol falls to an amount where it is no longer financially feasible to market XOPENEX Inhalation Solution to Medicare Part B participants and/or if the DME-PSCs, the entities responsible for overseeing the Medicare Part B prescription drug benefit for respiratory products, impose restrictive coverage policies on XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, revenue from sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution will be adversely affected and our financial condition and results from operations will be impaired. On June 13, 2007, the DME-PSCs published an article detailing the coverage criteria for BROVANA. Unless otherwise modified by the DME-PSCs, the coverage criteria established for BROVANA in this article will remain in effect under the product-specific billing code that was awarded for the product. We have initiated a contracting strategy with retail and home health care pharmacy 40 providers for BROVANA that is intended to ensure the availability of the product for Medicare patients. If the contracting strategy for BROVANA is not successful or if the coverage policies established by the DME-PSCs for the product are viewed by physicians and providers as too restrictive, revenue growth from sales of BROVANA in the Medicare market will be materially adversely affected. As we enter into agreements to license our products for commercialization outside of the United States, we may be subject to pricing decisions made by regulatory bodies and private insurers around the world. Such pricing decisions may affect royalty rates and payments made to us under those agreements, or decisions whether or not to commercialize our products in the applicable jurisdiction. Efforts to obtain pricing decisions are often the responsibility of the third party licensee and we cannot predict the success of any third party in obtaining desirable pricing, or how the actions of such third party or any regulatory body or private insurer will affect the ultimate commercial benefits of those transactions. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. We will spend considerable time and money complying with Federal, state and foreign laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are subject to extensive regulation by Federal and state governments. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our business include, but are not limited to, the following: •Federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback laws, which prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under Federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •other Medicare and Medicaid laws and regulations that establish requirements for coverage and payment for our products, including the amount of such payments; •the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; •the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors and, further, requires us to comply with standards regarding privacy and security of individually identifiable health information and conduct certain electronic transactions using standardized code sets; •the Federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; •the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of prescription drugs and medical devices; •the Controlled Substances Act, which regulates handling of controlled substances such as LUNESTA; •the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which governs the filing of applications for marketing approval of new prescription drug products; 41 •the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007; •the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005; •state and foreign law equivalents of the foregoing; and •state food and drug laws, pharmacy acts and state pharmacy board regulations, which govern the sale, distribution, use, administration and prescribing of prescription drugs. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. In addition, if we are required to obtain permits or licenses under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs or curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from operating our business and damage our reputation. Federal and state government agencies also continue to promote efforts to reduce health care costs, including those associated with the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These efforts may include supplemental rebates and restrictions on the amounts that agencies will reimburse for the use of products. In addition, both the Federal and state governments have initiated investigations and lawsuits concerning the Medicaid price reporting practices of many pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with the Medicaid rebate program. For example, in April 2007, we were sued by the County of Orange, New York in the Southern District of New York, along with over 70 other pharmaceutical companies, for allegedly inflating published average wholesale prices allegedly resulting in the overpayments by the state of New York's Medicaid program. This suit has been transferred by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to the District of Massachusetts, where the case is now pending as part of MDL 1456 (in re Pharmaceutical Industry Average Wholesale Price Litigation) and our obligation to answer the Complaint has been stayed pending the Court's decisions in related actions brought by other New York Counties against other defendants. We could be subject to damages and penalties as a consequence of this lawsuit, if we are found liable. The approval of sale of certain medications without a prescription may adversely affect our business. In May 2001, an advisory panel to the FDA recommended that the FDA allow certain popular allergy medications to be sold without a prescription. In November 2002, the FDA approved CLARITIN, an allergy medication, to be sold without a prescription. In November 2007, the FDA also approved ZYRTEC, another allergy medication, to be sold without a prescription. In the future, the FDA may allow sale of additional allergy medications without a prescription. The sale of CLARITIN, ZYRTEC and/or, if allowed, the sale of other allergy medications without a prescription, may have a material adverse effect on our business because the market for prescription drugs, including CLARINEX, ALLEGRA, and XYZAL/XUSAL for which we receive royalties on sales, has been and may continue to be, adversely affected. 42 We recently determined that PHS discounts were provided to non-PHS covered entities. This circumstance creates uncertainty as to whether a new best price was set in prior periods. If a new best price was set, additional Medicaid rebates will be required to be paid. In addition, we may face an increased risk of investigation or litigation concerning our Medicaid price reporting or other price reporting obligations. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we are obligated to pay a rebate to each participating State Medicaid program for each unit of product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law as the greater of (a) 15.1% of AMP or (b) the difference between AMP and the Medicaid best price, which is the lowest price available from us to any customer not excluded by law from that determination. The rules related to determining AMP and best price are complicated. We compute best price and the required rebate payments each quarter based on our knowledge of the statutory requirements, the current CMS guidance and our understanding of which customers are exempt from the best price calculation. In January 2008, we notified CMS that we had identified potential errors in our determination of the best price used to calculate Medicaid rebate amounts in prior periods. As a follow up to this disclosure to CMS, our management, with the oversight of our Audit Committee, is reviewing our government pricing activities affected by the material weakness on our internal controls related to these potential errors. We restated our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 and the unaudited quarterly information in Note T in our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2007 and 2006 to reduce the amount of product revenue earned during such periods. The amounts by which we have reduced revenues for contingent rebates were based on management's best estimates and assumptions made prior to any concurrence by CMS. These amounts may change as a result of future communications with CMS, and we cannot be certain that we have not overestimated the amount of additional rebates we may be required to pay, that the amount of any additional rebate payments or other payments we may owe will not exceed our current estimates, or that we will not be subject to fines, penalties or interest. Both the federal government and state governments have initiated investigations and lawsuits concerning the Medicaid price reporting practices of many pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with the Medicaid rebate program. As a result of the errors that we identified in our calculation of Medicaid rebate reserve amounts, we may face an increased risk of a government investigation or lawsuits concerning our Medicaid or other price reporting. If any such investigation or lawsuit is initiated, we may be required to pay additional rebates or other amounts related to sales made in prior periods, and we may be subject to fines, penalties or interest. In addition, an investigation or lawsuit concerning our Medicaid price reporting could be costly, could divert the attention of our management from our core business and could damage our reputation. If our drugs are not included on state Preferred Drug Lists, use of our drugs may be negatively affected. Several state Medicaid programs have implemented PDLs and more states may adopt this practice. Products placed on a state Medicaid program's PDL are not subject to restrictions on their utilization by Medicaid patients, such as the need to obtain authorization prior to prescribing. If our drugs are not included on Medicaid PDLs, use of our drugs in the Medicaid program may be adversely affected. In some States that have adopted PDLs, we have been, and may continue to be, required to provide substantial supplemental rebates to state Medicaid authorities in order for our drugs to be included on the PDL. 43 Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, then we could lose revenue under our licensing agreements or lose sales to generic copies of our products. Our success depends in large part on our ability, and the ability of our collaboration partners, to obtain, maintain and enforce patents, and protect trade secrets. Our ability to commercialize any drug successfully will largely depend upon our ability to obtain and maintain patents of sufficient scope to prevent third parties from developing substantially equivalent products. In the absence of patent and trade secret protection, competitors may adversely affect our business by independently developing and marketing substantially equivalent products. It is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we are required to initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We have filed patent applications covering composition of, methods of making, and/or methods of using, our drugs and drug candidates. Our revenues under collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies depend in part on the existence and scope of issued patents. We may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we file in the future and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover the products licensed under these collaboration agreements. Generally, we do not receive royalty revenue from sales of products licensed under collaboration agreements in countries where we do not have a patent for such products. The issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. Furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions, and has been and remains the subject of much litigation. Legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we are not successful in enforcing our patents, we will not be able to prevent others from introducing generic versions of our products. A number of our products and products for which we receive royalties are the subject of patent invalidation claims. XOPENEX Inhalation Solution is currently the subject of patent infringement litigation. The FDA has received ANDAs from Breath, Dey, L.P., Watson and Barr seeking marketing approval for generic versions of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution products. These submissions include Paragraph IV certifications alleging that our patents listed in the Orange Book for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the submitter's proposed product. We have commenced patent infringement litigation against Breath, Dey, L.P., and Barr, but we have decided not to commence litigation against Watson at this time as its Paragraph IV certification is limited to a patent that expires in 2021. The filing of a lawsuit for patent infringement under the Hatch-Waxman Act results in an automatic 30-month stay of the FDA's authority to grant marketing approval to these companies. The 30-month stay against Breath's ANDA is scheduled to expire for our 1.25 mg/3 mL, 0.63 mg/3 mL and 0.31 mg/3 mL XOPENEX Inhalation Solution on or about March 7, 2008. In December 2007, the FDA granted tentative approval to Breath's ANDA for all three dosages. A non-jury trial in our litigation against Breath is scheduled to begin on July 14, 2008 in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, C.A. No. 06-113. No trial date has been set in our patent infringement litigation against Dey, L.P. or Barr. Upon expiration of that 30-month stay, the FDA could grant final approval and Breath could then commence an "at risk" distribution of its generic levalbuterol product for those dosages notwithstanding our patents and notwithstanding that the court's decision as to the merits of the 44 litigation will not have been rendered, unless we were able to obtain an injunction prohibiting such distribution. However, if a forfeiture event occurs and the FDA determines that Breath has forfeited the 180-day semi-exclusivity period for those three dosages, other ANDA filers who have been granted final approval by the FDA could commence an "at risk" launch upon expiration of the 30-month stay. For those three dosages, the 30-month stays against Dey, L.P. and Barr expire on or about July 9, 2008 and November 30, 2009, respectively. If any of these parties were to commence selling a generic alternative to our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution product prior to the resolution of these ongoing legal proceedings, or there is a court determination that the products these companies wish to market do not infringe our patents, or that our patents are invalid or unenforceable, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our previously issued guidance regarding our projected financial results may no longer be accurate and we would have to revise such guidance. Certain of Schering-Plough's CLARINEX products for which we receive sales royalties are currently the subject of patent infringement litigation and in 2007, the FDA received a number of ANDAs relating to CLARINEX. These ANDA submissions include Paragraph IV certifications alleging that our patents, which Schering Plough (as licensee of such patents) listed in the Orange Book for these products, are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the submitter's proposed product. We and the University of Massachusetts, co-owners of certain patents listed in the Orange Book, filed civil actions against these parties for patent infringement. We believe that all of these ANDAs are subject to a statutory stay of approval until June 21, 2009 based on previous litigation commenced by Schering-Plough against these parties in separate civil actions involving another patent. In addition, a number of our foreign patents that we have out-licensed to Schering-Plough, sanofi-aventis and UCB in connection with the sale of CLARINEX, ALLEGRA and XYZAL/XUSAL, respectively, are subject to patent invalidity claims. If patent-based exclusivity is lost for one or more of these products in any foreign jurisdiction, our rights to receive royalty revenue with respect to such product in the relevant jurisdiction will terminate, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Should the courts uphold our foreign patents, companies seeking to market generic versions of our drugs and the drugs of our licensees should be deterred from market entry until the expiration of the applicable patent(s). Patent litigation involves complex legal and factual questions. We can provide no assurance concerning the outcome or the duration of any patent related lawsuits. If we, or third parties from whom we receive royalties, are not successful in enforcing our respective patents, the companies seeking to market generic versions of our drugs and the drugs of our licensees will not be excluded, for the full term of our patents, from marketing their generic versions of our products or third party products for which we have licensed rights to our patents. Introduction of generic copies of any of our products or third party products for which we have licensed rights to our patents before the expiration of our patents would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs to us of these proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and other key personnel from our core business and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of this and any other litigation proceedings could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. If we face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, then we could be liable for significant damages or be prevented from commercializing our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing upon proprietary rights of others, including patent and trademark rights. Third parties, typically drug companies, hold patents or patent applications covering compositions, methods of making and uses, covering the composition of 45 matter for some of the drug candidates for which we have patents or patent applications. Third parties also hold patents relating to drug delivery technology that may be necessary for development or commercialization of some of our drug candidates. In each of these cases, unless we have or obtain a license agreement, we generally may not commercialize the drug candidates until these third-party patents expire or are declared invalid or unenforceable by the courts. Licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Others may file suit against us alleging that our products or product candidates infringe patents they hold. Even if resolved in our favor, any patent infringement litigation would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, could prevent us from commercializing our products for a period of time and could require us to pay significant damages and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the matter is not resolved in our favor, we could be required to pay significant damages and/or be prevented from commercializing our product and our business could be materially adversely affected. In April 2007, we were served with a Complaint filed by Dey, alleging that the manufacture and sale of BROVANA infringes or will induce infringement of a single U.S. patent for which Dey owns all rights, title and interest. In April 2007, we filed an Answer and Counterclaim to this Complaint seeking to invalidate the originally asserted patent and a second related patent. In May 2007, Dey filed a reply asserting infringement of the second patent. Under the current trial scheduling order, trial will begin no earlier than January 12, 2009. It is too early to make a reasonable assessment as to the likely outcome or impact of this litigation. We are unable to reasonably estimate any possible range of loss or liability related to this lawsuit due to its uncertain resolution. If any of our trademarks or the trademarks we license from our third party collaborators, or our use of any of these trademarks in connection with products we commercialize, is challenged, we or our third party collaborators may be forced to rename the affected product or product candidate, which could be costly and time consuming, and would result in the loss of any brand equity associated with the product name. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties If any third-party collaborator is not successful in development or commercialization of our products and product candidates, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have entered into a collaboration agreement with 3M for the manufacturing of XOPENEX HFA. Under this agreement, 3M is responsible for manufacturing an MDI formulation of XOPENEX. We commercially introduced XOPENEX HFA in December 2005. We have also entered into agreements with Eisai and GSK for development and commercialization of our eszopiclone product, marketed as LUNESTA in the U.S. Under the Eisai agreement, Eisai will be responsible for completing remaining clinical trials necessary for attaining marketing approval from the Japanese regulatory authorities and, contingent on regulatory approval, commercialization of the product in Japan. Under the GSK agreement, GSK is responsible for the development and commercialization of the product for all markets worldwide, excluding the United States, Canada, Mexico and Japan. In addition, we have also recently entered into a license agreement with Bial for the development and commercialization in the United States and Canada of Bial's anti-epileptic compound, BIA 2-093, which we subsequently renamed SEP-0002093. Under this agreement, Bial is responsible for certain development activities and prosecuting all patents and patent applications it licensed to us. We have also recently entered into a distribution and development agreement with Nycomed for the development, commercialization and distribution in the United States, its territories and possessions of Nycomed's compound ciclesonide, and certain products incorporating such compound, including ALVESCO HFA and OMNARIS AQ. Under this agreement, Nycomed is responsible for prosecuting all patents and patent applications with respect to these products. 46 If 3M, Eisai, GSK, Bial, Nycomed or any future development or commercialization collaborator does not devote sufficient time and resources to its collaboration arrangement with us, breaches or terminates its agreement with us, fails to perform its obligations to us in a timely manner, is unsuccessful in its development and/or commercialization efforts, or is unsuccessful in obtaining, maintaining or enforcing patents, and/or protecting trade secrets we license from such collaborator, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if regulatory approval or commercialization of any product candidate under development by or in collaboration with a partner is delayed or limited, we may not realize, or may be delayed in realizing, the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement. The royalties and other payments we receive under licensing arrangements could be delayed, reduced or terminated if our licensing partners terminate, or fail to perform their obligations under, their agreements with us, or if our licensing partners are unsuccessful in their sales efforts. We have entered into licensing arrangements pursuant to which we license patents to pharmaceutical companies and our revenues under these licensing arrangements consist primarily of milestone payments, royalties on sales of products and supply payments. Payments and royalties under these arrangements depend in large part on the efforts of our licensing partners in countries where we hold patents, including development and sales efforts and enforcement of patents, which we cannot control. If any of our licensing partners do not devote sufficient time and resources to its licensing arrangement with us or focuses its efforts in countries where we do not hold patents, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, our revenues under these arrangements may be less than anticipated and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If any of our licensing partners was to breach or terminate its agreement with us or fail to perform its obligations to us in a timely manner, the royalties and other payments we receive under the licensing agreement could decrease or cease. If we are unable or fail to perform, or breach in our performance of, our obligations under a licensing agreement, the royalties and other payments and benefits to which we are otherwise entitled under the agreement could be reduced or eliminated. Any delay or termination of this type could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we may lose technology rights and milestone or royalty payments from licensing partners and/or revenues from product sales, if any, could be delayed, reduced or terminated. We rely on third-party manufacturers, and this reliance could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' demands. We currently operate a manufacturing plant that we believe can meet our commercial requirements of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, XOPENEX HFA and BROVANA, partially fulfill our commercial requirements of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for LUNESTA, and support production of our product candidates in amounts needed for our clinical trials. We do not, however, have the capability to manufacture at our manufacturing facility all of our requirements for the active ingredients of our currently approved products, and we have no facilities for manufacturing pharmaceutical dosage forms or finished drug products. Developing and obtaining this capability would be time consuming and expensive. Unless and until we develop this capability, we will rely substantially, and in some cases, entirely, on third-party manufacturers. Catalent and Holopack are currently our only finished goods manufacturers of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and Catalent is currently the sole finished goods manufacturer of BROVANA. Patheon Inc., or Patheon, is the sole manufacturer of LUNESTA, and 3M is the sole manufacturer and supplier of XOPENEX HFA. Certain components of XOPENEX HFA are available from only a single source. If Catalent, Holopack, Patheon, 3M, or any of our sole-source component suppliers experiences delays or difficulties in producing, packaging or delivering XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, XOPENEX HFA or its components, BROVANA or LUNESTA, as the case may be, we could be unable to meet our customers' demands for such products, which could lead to lost sales, customer dissatisfaction and 47 damage to our reputation. Moreover, if we experience delays or difficulties meeting our supply obligations to GSK and Eisai as a result of our third party suppliers and manufacturers not meeting our demands, or for any other reason, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of our supply and/or licensing arrangements with these parties and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are required to change manufacturers, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines, including FDA guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, XOPENEX HFA or its components, BROVANA or LUNESTA could adversely affect our ability to produce such products in a timely manner or within budget. Pursuant to our distribution, development and commercialization agreement with Nycomed, Nycomed will be responsible for exclusively manufacturing and supplying us with our requirements of ALVESCO HFA and OMNARIS AQ and OMNARIS HFA. Furthermore, in the event that we develop and commercialize any additional products containing the compound ciclesonide, Nycomed, upon request, will be our exclusive supplier of such additional products. If Nycomed experiences delays or difficulties in producing, packaging or delivering ALVESCO HFA, OMNARIS AQ, OMNARIS HFA, or other products containing the compound ciclesonide, we could be unable to meet our customers' demands for such products, which could lead to lost sales, customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation. We license certain proprietary technology required to manufacture our XOPENEX HFA from 3M. If 3M is unable or unwilling to fulfill its obligations to us under our agreement, we may be unable to manufacture XOPENEX HFA on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. Our other current contract manufacturers, as well as any future contract manufacturers, may also independently own technology related to manufacturing of our products. If so, we would be heavily dependent on such manufacturer and such manufacturer could require us to obtain a license in order to have another party manufacture our products. Risks Related to Growth of Our Business If we fail to acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products, our ability to grow will be impaired. We are currently commercializing four products, recently acquired from Nycomed the exclusive U.S. distribution rights to two FDA-approved products and the development rights to one late-stage product candidate, and recently licensed one late-stage product candidate from Bial. However, all of our other product candidates are in the early stages of development. In order to increase the likelihood that we will be able to successfully develop and/or commercialize additional drugs, we intend to acquire and develop additional product candidates and/or approved products. The success of this growth strategy depends upon our ability to correctly establish criteria for such acquisitions and successfully identify, select and acquire product candidates and/or products that meet such criteria. We will be required to integrate any acquired product candidates, including BIA 2-093, which we now refer to as SEP-0002093, and product candidates we are developing pursuant to our agreement with Nycomed, into our research and development operations and any acquired products, including ALVESCO HFA and OMNARIS AQ into our sales and marketing operations. Managing the development and/or commercialization of a new product involves numerous other financial and operational risks, including difficulties allocating resources between existing and acquired assets and attracting and retaining qualified employees to develop and/or sell the product. Any product candidate we acquire may require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive preclinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure 48 inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot be assured that any products that we develop or acquire will be: •manufactured or produced economically; •successfully commercialized or reimbursed at rates sufficient for us to achieve or maintain profitability with respect to such products; •complementary to our existing product portfolio; or •widely accepted in the marketplace. Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We may undertake strategic acquisitions in the future and any difficulties from integrating such acquisitions could adversely affect our stock price, business operations, financial condition or results from operations. We may acquire additional businesses, products or product candidates that complement or augment our existing business. We have limited acquisition experience and may not be able to integrate any acquired business, product or product candidate successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Integrating any newly acquired business, product or product candidate could be expensive and time-consuming. Integration efforts often place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult or expensive than we predict. The diversion of our management's attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with any future acquisitions we may consummate could result in the disruption of our on going business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, collaborators, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to acquire any businesses, products or product candidates, which may result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. As part of our efforts to acquire businesses, products or product candidates or to enter into other significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions we have consummated or may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We will also need to make certain assumptions regarding acquired product candidates, including, among other things, development costs, the likelihood of receiving regulatory approval and the market for such product candidates. Our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. In addition, we will likely experience significant charges to earnings in connection with our efforts, if any, to consummate acquisitions. For transactions that are ultimately not consummated, these charges may include fees and expenses for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other advisers in connection with our efforts. Even if our efforts are successful, we may incur as part of a transaction substantial charges for closure costs associated with elimination of duplicate operations and facilities 49 and acquired in-process research and development charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. Development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated if we are unable to enter into collaboration agreements in the future or if any future collaboration agreement is subject to lengthy government review. Development and commercialization of some of our product candidates may depend on our ability to enter into additional collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies to fund all or part of the costs of development and commercialization of these product candidates. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements and the terms of the collaboration agreements, if any, may not be favorable to us. Inability to enter into collaboration agreements could delay or preclude development, manufacture and/or marketing of some of our drugs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because: •we may be required to expend additional funds to advance the drugs to commercialization; •revenue from product sales could be delayed; or •we may elect not to commercialize the drugs. We are required to file a notice under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, or the HSR Act, for certain agreements containing exclusive license grants and to delay the effectiveness of any such exclusive license until expiration or earlier termination of the notice and waiting period under the HSR Act. If expiration or termination of the notice and waiting period under the HSR Act is delayed because of lengthy government review, or if the Federal Trade Commission or Department of Justice successfully challenges such a license, development and commercialization could be delayed or precluded and our business could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 