Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Results We have a history of net losses and we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly and annual basis. Except for our fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005, we have incurred net losses each quarter since our inception. It is possible we will not be able to achieve profitability again or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We expect to continue to incur significant operating expenditures to further develop and commercialize our products and product candidates. As a result, although we achieved profitability for the year ended December 31, 2005, we will need to generate significant revenues in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will achieve significant revenues or that we will ever achieve profitability again. Even if we do achieve profitability again, we may not be able maintain profitability for any substantial period of time. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, the market price of our common stock may decline. 17 Almost all of our revenues are derived from sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and our future success depends on the continued commercial success of these products. Approximately 94% and 92% of our revenues for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005, respectively, resulted from sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and we expect sales from these two products to represent substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. In April 2005, we commercially launched LUNESTA as a new product in a highly and increasingly competitive market and we cannot be certain that it will achieve continued commercial success. In addition, we do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers, and we rely on purchase orders for sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution. Reductions, delays or cancellations of orders for LUNESTA or XOPENEX Inhalation Solution could adversely affect our operating results. If sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and LUNESTA do not continue to increase, we may not have sufficient revenues to achieve our business plan or repay our outstanding debt, and our business will not be successful. In December 2005, we commercially launched XOPENEX HFA and we cannot be certain that it will achieve commercial success. With respect to XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, two generic companies have filed ANDAs with the FDA seeking to market a generic version of levalbuterol hydrochloride inhalation solution. We have commenced litigation against both of these generic companies related to the patents covering this product. A finding that the products these companies wish to market do not infringe our patents or that our patents are invalid or unenforceable will likely lead to introduction of generic levalbuterol inhalation solution. If this occurs, sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution will be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to successfully commercialize our products or that any of our products will continue to be accepted in their markets. Specifically, the following factors, among others, could affect the level of success and market acceptance of LUNESTA, XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and/or XOPENEX HFA: •a change in the perception of the health care community of their safety and efficacy, both in an absolute sense and relative to that of competing products; •the introduction of new products into the respiratory or sleep markets; •the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; •any unfavorable publicity regarding these products or similar products; •litigation or threats of litigation with respect to these products; •the price of the product relative to other competing drugs or treatments; •any changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement policies and practices; and •regulatory developments affecting the manufacture, marketing or use of these products. Any adverse developments with respect to the sale of LUNESTA or XOPENEX Inhalation Solution could significantly reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain profitability and achieve our business plan. We have significant long-term debt and we may not be able to make principal payments when due. As of December 31, 2005, our total long-term debt was approximately $1.2 billion and our stockholders' equity (deficit) was ($165.5) million. None of our 5% debentures due 2007, our 0% Series A notes due 2008, our 0% Series B notes due 2010 nor our 0% notes due 2024 restricts us or our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, including debt that ranks senior to the notes. The 0% notes due 2024 are senior to the Series A notes due 2008 and Series B notes due 2010, which 18 are senior to the 5% debentures due 2007. Additional indebtedness that we incur may in certain circumstances rank senior to or on parity with this debt. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend upon our future performance, which is subject to many factors, including factors beyond our control. The conversion prices for the 5% debentures due 2007, 0% Series A notes due 2008 and 0% Series B notes due 2010 are $92.38, $31.89 and $29.84, respectively. On March 1, 2006, the closing sale price of our common stock was $58.15. If the market price for our common stock does not exceed the conversion price, the holders of our outstanding convertible debt may not convert their securities into common stock. Our 0% notes due 2024 are convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock at a conversion price of approximately $67.20, at the option of the holders under certain circumstances. We may not be able to make the required cash payments upon conversion of the 0% notes due 2024. Historically, we have had negative cash flow from operations. For the year ended December 31, 2005, net cash used in operating activities was approximately $22.6 million. Our annual debt service through 2006, assuming no additional interest-bearing debt is incurred and no additional 5% debentures due 2007 are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, is approximately $22.0 million. Unless we have sufficient cash or are able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay off the principal of our outstanding debt, we will be required to raise additional funds or default on our obligations under the debentures and notes. If revenue generated from sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution do not meet expected levels, it is unlikely that we would have sufficient cash flow to repay our outstanding convertible debt and/or make cash payments upon conversion of the 0% notes due 2024. There can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to raise the additional funds on favorable terms, if at all. If we exchange debt for shares of common stock, there will be additional dilution to holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $1.2 billion of outstanding long-term debt. In order to reduce future cash interest payments, as well as future payments due at maturity, we may, from time to time, depending on market conditions, repurchase additional outstanding convertible debt for cash; exchange debt for shares of our common stock, warrants, preferred stock, debt or other consideration; or a combination of any of the foregoing. If we exchange shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our capital stock, for outstanding convertible debt or use proceeds from the issuance of convertible debt to fund redemption of outstanding convertible debt with a higher conversion ratio, the number of shares that we might issue as a result of such exchanges would significantly exceed the number of shares originally issuable upon conversion of such debt and, accordingly, such exchanges would result in material dilution to holders of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will repurchase or exchange any additional outstanding convertible debt. If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from these reflected in our projections and accruals. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We cannot assure you, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them will not be materially different than actual results. For example, our royalty revenue is recognized based upon our estimates of our collaboration partners' sales during the period and, if these sales estimates are greater than the actual sales that occur during the period, our net income would be reduced. This, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. 19 If sufficient funds to finance our business are not available to us when needed or on acceptable terms, then we may be required to delay, scale back, eliminate or alter our strategy for our programs. We may require additional funds for our research and product development programs, operating expenses, repayment of debt, the pursuit of regulatory approvals, license or acquisition opportunities and the expansion of our production, sales and marketing capabilities. Historically, we have satisfied our funding needs through collaboration arrangements with corporate partners and equity and debt financings. These funding sources may not be available to us when needed in the future, and, if available, they may not be on terms acceptable to us. Insufficient funds could require us to delay, scale back or eliminate certain of our research and product development programs or to enter into license agreements with third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise develop or commercialize ourselves. Our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of factors including: •patent developments; •licensing or acquisition opportunities; •relationships with collaboration partners; •the FDA regulatory process; •litigation; •our capital requirements; and •selling, marketing and manufacturing expenses in connection with commercialization of products. Several class action lawsuits have been filed against us which may result in litigation that is costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain and may harm our business. We and several of our current and former officers and a current director are named as defendants in several class action complaints which have been filed on behalf of certain persons who purchased our common stock and/or debt securities during different time periods, beginning on various dates, the earliest being May 17, 1999, and all ending on March 6, 2002. These complaints allege violations of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the SEC. Primarily they allege that the defendants made certain materially false and misleading statements relating to the testing, safety and likelihood of FDA approval of tecastemizole. On April 11, 2003, two consolidated amended complaints were filed, one on behalf of the purchasers of our equity securities and the other on behalf the purchasers of our debt securities. These consolidated amended complaints reiterate the allegations contained in the previously filed complaints and define the alleged class periods as May 17, 1999 through March 6, 2002. On September 8, 2005, in both the debt purchasers' action and the equity purchasers' action, the district court granted the plaintiff's motion for class certification. The parties are currently engaged in discovery. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of these lawsuits. Any conclusion of these matters in a manner adverse to us would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business. In addition, the costs to us of defending any litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation or other proceedings could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. 20 Fluctuations in the demand for products, the success and timing of collaboration arrangements and regulatory approval, any termination of development efforts will cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to be volatile. These fluctuations will depend on many factors, including: •timing of product sales and market penetration; •timing of operating expenses, including selling and marketing expenses and the costs of expanding and maintaining a direct sales force; •success and timing of regulatory filings and approvals for products developed by us or our licensing partners or for collaborative agreements; •timing of product launch; •introduction of competitive products into the market; •results of clinical trials with respect to products under development; •the initiation of litigation against us, or adverse developments in any judicial proceedings in which we are involved; •a change in the perception of the health care and/or investor communities with respect to our products; •success and timing of collaboration agreements for development of our pharmaceutical candidates and development costs for those pharmaceuticals; •timing of receipt of upfront, milestone or royalty payments under collaboration agreements; •termination of development efforts of any product under development or any collaboration agreement; and •timing of expenses we may incur with respect to any license or acquisitions of products or technologies. We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate our stockholders' ability to sell their shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or takeover attempt of our company by a third party that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: •preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or to discourage a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock; •classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; •non-cumulative voting for directors; •control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors; •limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; 21 •inability of our stockholders to take any action by written consent; and •advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, in June 2002, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer of Sepracor to consummate an acquisition transaction. The price of our common stock historically has been volatile, which could cause you to lose part or all of your investment. The market price of our common stock, like that of the common stock of many other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, may be highly volatile. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Prices for our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including variations in our financial results and investors' perceptions of us, and changes in recommendations by securities analysts as well as their perceptions of general economic, industry and market conditions. Risks Related to Commercialization We face intense competition and our competitors have greater resources and capabilities than we have. We face intense competition in the sale of our current products, and expect to face intense competition in the sale of any future products we sell. If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected because we may not achieve our product revenue objectives and because we may use our financial resources to seek to differentiate ourselves from our competition. Large and small companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private organizations conduct research, seek patent protection, develop products, establish collaborative arrangements for product development and sell products in competition with us. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater resources, manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities, research and development staff and production facilities than we have. The fields in which we compete are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture and marketing of new products and/or technologies than we can. As a result, any products and/or technologies that we develop may become obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover expenses incurred in connection with their development. In the respiratory market, we compete primarily against albuterol. XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and generic albuterol inhalation solution currently account for the majority of beta-agonist inhalation solution prescriptions in the market. Albuterol has been marketed for many years, is well established and sells at prices substantially lower than XOPENEX Inhalation Solution. To continue successfully marketing XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, we must continue to demonstrate that the efficacy and safety features of our drug outweigh its higher cost. In the sleep disorder market, we face intense competition from established products, such as AMBIEN and SONATA. We also face competition from the newly approved sleep agents ROZEREM and AMBIEN CR. There are also other potentially competitive therapies that are in late-stage clinical development for the treatment of insomnia. For all of our products, we need to demonstrate to physicians, patients and third-party payors that the cost of our product is reasonable and appropriate in light of its safety and efficacy, its price and the health care benefits, each as compared to other competing products. 22 We may be unable to commercialize products for which we receive approval from the FDA. Commercialization of a product for which we have received an approval letter from the FDA could be delayed for a number of reasons, some of which are outside of our control, including delays in delivery of the product due to importation regulations and/or problems with our distribution channels or delays in the issuance of approvals from, or the completion of required procedures by, agencies other than the FDA, such as the United States Drug Enforcement Administration. In addition, commercialization of FDA-approved products may be delayed by our failure to timely finalize distribution arrangements, manufacturing process and arrangements, produce sufficient inventory and/or properly prepare our sales force. If we are unable to commercialize a product promptly after receipt of an approval letter, our business and financial position may be materially adversely affected due to reduced revenue from product sales during the period or periods that commercialization is delayed and the shortening of any lead time to market we may have had over our competitors. In addition, the exclusivity period, which is the time during which the FDA will prevent generic pharmaceutical companies from introducing a generic copy of the product, begins to run upon FDA approval and, therefore, to the extent we are unable to commercialize a product promptly after receipt of an approval letter, our long-term product sales and revenues could be adversely affected. Even if the FDA or similar foreign agencies grant us regulatory approval of a product, if we fail to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizures of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In any such event, our product sales and revenues could be adversely affected. We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force and if we are not successful in attracting and retaining qualified sales personnel, we may not be successful in commercializing our products. We have limited marketing and sales experience. If we successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for the products we are developing, we may (1) market and sell them through our sales force, (2) license some of them to large pharmaceutical companies or (3) market and sell them through other arrangements, including co-promotion arrangements. We have established a sales force to market XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, LUNESTA and XOPENEX HFA. We have incurred significant expense in expanding our sales force and expect to incur additional expense as we further expand. With respect to products under development, we may incur significant costs in expanding our sales force before the products have been approved for marketing. For example, we expanded our sales force in 2004 in anticipation of marketing and selling LUNESTA and in 2005 in anticipation of marketing and selling XOPENEX HFA. In addition, if we enter into co-promotion arrangements or market and sell additional products directly, we may need to significantly expand our sales force. Our ability to realize significant revenues from direct marketing and sales activities depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel. Competition for these persons is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified sales personnel, we will not be able to successfully expand our marketing and direct sales force on a timely or cost effective basis. We may also need to enter into additional co-promotion arrangements with third parties, for example where our own direct sales force is not large enough or sufficiently well aligned to achieve maximum penetration in the market. We may not be successful in entering into any co-promotion arrangements, and the terms of any co-promotion arrangements may not be favorable to us. If we or our third-party manufacturers do not comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations, then the FDA could refuse to approve marketing applications or force us to recall or withdraw our products. The FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our products be manufactured according to their Good Manufacturing Practices, or GMP, regulations. The failure by us, our collaborative development partners or third-party manufacturers to comply with current GMP regulations could lead 23 to delay in our development programs or refusal by the FDA to approve marketing applications. Failure in either respect could also be the basis for action by the FDA to withdraw approvals previously granted, to recall products and for other regulatory action. On October 22, 2004, we commenced notifying drug wholesalers, hospitals and pharmacies of a manufacturer-initiated voluntary Class III recall of one component of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution product line, XOPENEX Inhalation Solution Concentrate (1.25mg/0.5mL), which we introduced in August 2004. The recall, which affects only XOPENEX Inhalation Solution Concentrate and no other components of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution product line, was necessitated by packaging process validation issues relating to the automated process of placing finished vials into a foil pouch. We have suspended manufacture and sale of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution Concentrate until the issues giving rise to the recall have been fully addressed. We do not expect to re-introduce XOPENEX Inhalation Solution Concentrate before the second quarter of 2006. If our manufacturer cannot remedy the GMP deficiencies giving rise to the recall of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution Concentrate, or if these or similar deficiencies are found to extend to other components or our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution product line, our ability to supply product to the market may be limited or interrupted indefinitely, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could be exposed to significant liability claims that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. We may be subject to product liability claims that arise through testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale and use of pharmaceutical products. Product liability claims could distract our management and key personnel from our core business, require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages, which could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts and could adversely affect our business. Claims of this nature could also adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market and subject us to product recalls. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for both the clinical trials and commercialization of our products, it is possible that we will not be able to obtain further product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and that our insurance coverage may not provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment If our products do not receive government approval, then we will not be able to commercialize them. The FDA and similar foreign agencies must approve for commercialization any pharmaceutical products developed by us or our development partners. These agencies impose substantial requirements on drug manufacturing and marketing. Any unanticipated preclinical and clinical studies we are required to undertake could result in a significant increase in the cost of advancing our products to commercialization. In addition, failure by us or our collaborative development partners to obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, or at all, or the attempt by us or our collaborative development partners to receive regulatory approval to achieve labeling objectives, could prevent or adversely affect the timing of commercial introduction of, or our ability to market and sell, our products. If we fail to successfully develop and receive regulatory approval for arformoterol or other product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize the product candidates and future sales and earnings growth will be substantially hampered. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend in large part on successful development and commercialization of additional products, including arformoterol. In February 2006, the FDA accepted our arformoterol NDA for filing. The PDUFA date for the arformoterol NDA is October 12, 2006. We cannot assure you that the FDA will approve our NDA for arformoterol on a timely basis, or at all. If 24 the FDA does not approve our NDA for arformoterol, we will not be able to commercialize the product candidate and, therefore, will not receive any revenues from sales of the product. Other than arformoterol, our product candidates are in the early stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop or acquire and commercially introduce new products in a timely manner or that new products, if developed, will be approved for the indications, and/or with the labeling, we expect or that they will achieve market acceptance. Before we commercialize any other product candidate, we will need to successfully develop the product candidate by completing successful clinical trials, submitting an NDA for the product candidate that is accepted by the FDA and receiving FDA approval to market the candidate. If we fail to successfully develop a product candidate and/or the FDA delays or denies approval of any submitted NDA or any NDA that we submit in the future, then commercialization of our products under development may be delayed or terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of problems may arise during the development of our product candidates: •results of clinical trials may not be consistent with preclinical study results; •results from later phases of clinical trials may not be consistent with results from earlier phases; •results from clinical trials may not demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and efficacious; •we may not receive regulatory approval for our product candidates; •the product candidate may not offer therapeutic or other improvements over comparable drugs; •we may elect not to continue funding the development of our product candidates; or •funds may not be available to develop all of our product candidates. In addition, our growth is dependent on our continued ability to penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and competition is intense. We cannot assure you that the markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets, that our products will achieve customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors will not force prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share from us, or that we can achieve or maintain profits in these markets. If the FDA delays or denies approval of any NDA that we file in the future, then commercialization of the product subject to the NDA will be delayed or terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The regulatory process to obtain marketing approval requires clinical trials of a product to establish its safety and efficacy. Problems that may arise during clinical trials include: •results of clinical trials may not be consistent with preclinical study results; •results from later phases of clinical trials may not be consistent with results from earlier phases; and •products may not be shown to be safe and efficacious. Even if the FDA or similar foreign agencies grant us regulatory approval of a product, the approval may take longer than we anticipate and may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing follow-up studies. Moreover, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. 25 Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payors, and a reduction in payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as state and Federal governments under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. Third-party payors continually attempt to contain or reduce the cost of health care by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We may not be able to sell our products profitably if reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. There have been, there are, and we expect there will continue to be, state and Federal legislative and/or administrative proposals that could limit the amount that state or Federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical products. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, which was signed into law in December 2003, contains provisions that permit reductions in government reimbursement for drugs. We are not able to predict the full impact of the MMA and its regulatory requirements on our business. However, we believe that legislative or administrative acts that reduce reimbursement for our products could adversely affect our business. In addition, private insurers, such as managed care organizations, may adopt their own reimbursement reductions in response to legislation. Reduction in reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, the increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. may put increasing pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely affect product sales. Further, when a new drug product is approved, governmental and/or private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed. We cannot predict availability or amount of reimbursement for our approved products or product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. The MMA also establishes a prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. We cannot be assured that our products will be included in the Medicare prescription drug benefit. Even if our products are included, we may be required to provide significant discounts or rebates to drug plans participating in the Medicare drug benefit. Moreover, the Federal government may acquire the ability to negotiate price and demand discounts on pharmaceutical products that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. On the other hand, the drug benefit may increase the volume of pharmaceutical drug purchases, offsetting at least in part these potential price discounts. In addition, Managed Care Organizations, or MCOs, Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs, Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs, health care institutions and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. MCOs, HMOs and PPOs and private health plans will administer the Medicare drug benefit, leading to managed care and private health plans influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In addition, certain states have proposed and certain other states have adopted various programs to control prices for their seniors' and low-income drug programs, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, restrictions on access to certain products, importation from other countries, such as Canada, and bulk purchasing of drugs. Some states have adopted preferred drug lists, or PDLs, for their Medicaid programs. More states may adopt this practice. If our drugs are not included on Medicaid PDLs, use of our drugs in the Medicaid program may be adversely affected. In some states that have adopted PDLs, we have been, and may continue to be, required to provide substantial supplemental rebates to state Medicaid authorities in order for our drugs to be included on the PDL. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. 26 We will spend considerable time and money complying with Federal and state laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are subject to extensive regulation by Federal and state governments. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our business include, but are not limited to, the following: •Federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback laws, which prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under Federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •other Medicare laws and regulations that establish requirements for coverage and payment for our products, including the amount of such payments; •the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; •the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors and, further, requires us to comply with standards regarding privacy and security of individually identifiable health information and conduct certain electronic transactions using standardized code sets; •the Federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; •the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of prescription drugs and medical devices; •the Controlled Substances Act, which regulates handling of controlled substances such as LUNESTA; •state and foreign law equivalents of the foregoing; •state food and drug laws, pharmacy acts and state pharmacy board regulations, which govern sale, distribution, use, administration and prescribing of prescription drugs; and •state laws that prohibit practice of medicine by non-physicians and fee-splitting arrangements between physicians and non-physicians, as well as state law equivalents to the Federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback Laws, which may not be limited to government reimbursed items or services. If our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. In addition, if we are required to obtain permits or licenses under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, 27 even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from operating our business and damage our reputation. If our Medicaid rebate program practices are investigated, the costs could be substantial and could divert the attention of management. We are a participant in the Medicaid rebate program established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate for each unit of our product reimbursed by Medicaid. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law. We are also required to pay certain statutorily defined rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement on prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. Both the Federal government and state governments have initiated investigations into the rebate practices of many pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with these rebate programs. Any investigation of our rebate practices could be costly, could divert the attention of our management from our core business and could damage our reputation. The approval of sale of certain medications without a prescription may adversely affect our business. In May 2001, an advisory panel to the FDA recommended that the FDA allow certain popular allergy medications to be sold without a prescription. In November 2002, the FDA approved CLARITIN, an allergy medication, to be sold without a prescription. In the future, the FDA may also allow sale of other allergy medications without a prescription. The sale of CLARITIN and/or, if allowed, the sale of other allergy medications without a prescription, may have a material adverse effect on our business because the market for prescription drugs, including CLARINEX, for which we receive royalties on sales, has been and may continue to be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, then we could lose revenue under our licensing agreements or lose sales to generic copies of our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents, and protect trade secrets. Our ability to commercialize any drug successfully will largely depend upon our ability to obtain and maintain patents of sufficient scope to prevent third parties from developing substantially equivalent products. In the absence of patent and trade secret protection, competitors may adversely affect our business by independently developing and marketing substantially equivalent products. It is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we are required to initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We have filed patent applications covering composition of, methods of making, and/or methods of using our drugs and drug candidates. Our revenues under collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies depend in part on the existence and scope of issued patents. We may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we file in the future and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover the products licensed under these collaboration agreements. Generally, we do not receive royalty revenue from sales of products licensed under collaboration agreements in countries where we do not have a patent for such products. The issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. Furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions, and has been and remains the subject of much litigation. Legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, 28 would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. On September 7, 2005, we announced that the FDA received an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA from Breath Limited seeking marketing approval for generic copies of our 1.25 mg, 0.63 mg and 0.31 mg XOPENEX brand levalbuterol HCl Inhalation Solution unit dose vial products. XOPENEX Inhalation Solution Concentrate is not subject to the ANDA. On January 12, 2006, we announced that we received notice that the FDA had received an ANDA from Dey, L.P. for a generic version of levalbuterol hydrochloride inhalation solution. Both submissions include a Paragraph IV certification alleging that our patents listed in the Orange Book for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by the submitter's proposed product. We have filed civil actions against Breath Limited and Dey, L.P. for patent infringement. Should we successfully enforce our patents, the FDA will not approve the ANDA until expiration of the applicable patents. Otherwise, the FDA will stay its approval of the relevant ANDA until 30 months following the date we received notice of such ANDA or until a court decides that our patents are invalid, unenforceable or not infringed, whichever is earlier. Patent litigation involves complex legal and factual questions. We can provide no assurance concerning the outcome or the duration of the lawsuits. Any conclusion of these matters in a manner adverse to us would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business. If we are not successful in enforcing our patents, we will not be able to prevent the generic company, for the full term of our patents, from marketing their generic version of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution. Introduction of a generic copy of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution before the expiration of our patents would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the costs to us of conducting these proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and other key personnel from our core business and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation or other proceedings could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. If we face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, then we could be liable for significant damages or be prevented from commercializing our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing upon proprietary rights of others, including patent and trademark rights. Third parties, typically drug companies, hold patents or patent applications covering compositions, methods of making and uses, covering the composition of matter for some of the drug candidates for which we have patents or patent applications. Third parties also hold patents relating to drug delivery technology that may be necessary for development or commercialization of some of our drug candidates. In each of these cases, unless we have or obtain a license agreement, we generally may not commercialize the drug candidates until these third-party patents expire or are declared invalid or unenforceable by the courts. Licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, it would be costly for us to contest validity of a third-party patent or defend any claim that we infringe a third-party patent. Moreover, litigation involving third-party patents may not be resolved in our favor. Such contests and litigation would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, could prevent us from commercializing our products, could require us to pay significant damages and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If any of our trademarks, or our use of any of our trademarks on our products, is challenged, we may be forced to rename the affected product or product candidate, which could be costly and time consuming, and would result in the loss of any brand equity associated with the product name. 29 Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties If any third-party collaborator is not successful in development of our product candidates, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have entered into a collaboration agreement with 3M for the scale-up and manufacturing of XOPENEX HFA and we may enter into additional collaboration agreements in the future. Under our agreement with 3M, 3M is responsible for manufacturing an MDI formulation of XOPENEX. We commercially launched XOPENEX HFA in December 2005. If 3M, or any future development or commercialization collaborator, does not devote sufficient time and resources to its collaboration arrangement with us, breaches or terminates its agreement with us, fails to perform its obligation to us in a timely manner or is unsuccessful in its development and/or commercialization efforts, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if regulatory approval or commercialization of any product candidate under development by or in collaboration with a partner is delayed or limited, we may not realize, or may be delayed in realizing, the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement. The royalties we receive under licensing arrangements could be delayed, reduced or terminated if our licensing partners terminate, or fail to perform their obligations under, their agreements with us, or if our licensing partners are unsuccessful in their sales efforts. We have entered into licensing arrangements pursuant to which we license patents to pharmaceutical companies and our revenues under these licensing arrangements consist primarily of royalties on sales of products. Payments and royalties under these arrangements depend in large part on the commercialization efforts of our licensing partners in countries where we hold patents, including sales efforts and enforcement of patents, which we cannot control. If any of our licensing partners does not devote sufficient time and resources to its licensing arrangement with us or focuses its efforts in countries where we do not hold patents, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, our revenues under these arrangements may be less than anticipated and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If any of our licensing partners was to breach or terminate its agreement with us or fail to perform its obligations to us in a timely manner, the royalties we receive under the licensing agreement could decrease or cease. If we are unable or fail to perform, or breach in our performance of, our obligations under a licensing agreement, the royalties and benefits to which we are otherwise entitled under the agreement could be reduced or eliminated. Any delay or termination of this type could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we may lose technology rights and milestone or royalty payments from licensing partners and/or revenues from product sales, if any, could be delayed, reduced or terminated. We rely on third-party manufacturers, and this reliance could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' demands. We currently operate a manufacturing plant that we believe can meet our commercial requirements of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA, partially fulfill our commercial requirements of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for LUNESTA, and support production of our product candidates in amounts needed for our clinical trials. We do not, however, have the capability to manufacture at our manufacturing facility all of our requirements for the active ingredients of our currently approved products, and we have no facilities for manufacturing pharmaceutical dosage forms or finished drug products. Developing and obtaining this capability would be time consuming and expensive. Unless and until we develop this capability, we will rely substantially, and in some cases, entirely, on third-party manufacturers. Cardinal Health, Inc. is currently the sole finished goods manufacturer of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, Patheon Inc. is the sole manufacturer of LUNESTA brand eszopiclone and 3M is the sole manufacturer and supplier of XOPENEX HFA. Certain components of XOPENEX HFA are available from only a single source. 30 If Cardinal Health, Patheon, 3M, or any of our sole-source component suppliers experiences delays or difficulties in producing, packaging or delivering XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, LUNESTA, or XOPENEX HFA, as the case may be, we could be unable to meet our customers' demands for such products, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation. Furthermore, if we are required to change manufacturers, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines, including FDA guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, LUNESTA or XOPENEX HFA could negatively affect our ability to produce such products in a timely manner or within budget. 3M owns certain proprietary technology required to manufacture our XOPENEX HFA. If 3M is unable or unwilling to fulfill its obligations to us under our agreement, we may be unable to manufacture XOPENEX HFA on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. Our other current contract manufacturers, as well as any future contract manufacturers, may also independently own technology related to manufacturing of our products. If so, we would be heavily dependent on such manufacturer and such manufacturer could require us to obtain a license in order to have another party manufacture our products. Risks Related to Growth of Our Business If we fail to acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products, our ability to grow will be impaired. We are currently commercializing three products. However, other than arformoterol, for which we have filed an NDA, our product candidates are in the early stages of development. In order to increase the likelihood that we will be able to successfully develop and/or commercialize additional drugs, we intend to acquire and develop additional product candidates and/or approved products. The success of this growth strategy depends upon our ability to correctly establish criteria for such acquisitions and successfully identify, select and acquire product candidates and/or products that meet such criteria. We will be required to integrate any acquired product candidates into our research and development operations and any acquired products into our sales and marketing operations. Managing the development and/or commercialization of a new product involves numerous financial and operational risks, including difficulties allocating resources between existing and acquired assets and attracting and retaining qualified employees to develop and/or sell the product. Any product candidate we acquire may require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive pre-clinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will be safe and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot assure you that any products that we develop or acquire will be: •manufactured or produced economically; •successfully commercialized; •complementary to our existing product portfolio; or •widely accepted in the marketplace. Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. 31 We may undertake strategic acquisitions in the future and any difficulties from integrating such acquisitions could adversely affect our stock price, operating results and results of operations. We may acquire additional businesses and products that complement or augment our existing business. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business or product successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Integrating any newly acquired business or product could be expensive and time-consuming. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult or expensive than we predict. The diversion of our management's attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with any future acquisitions we may consummate could result in the disruption of our on-going business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, collaborators, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to acquire any businesses or products, which may result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. As part of our efforts to acquire businesses or product candidates or to enter into other significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions we may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks and other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we acquire product candidates, we will also need to make certain assumptions about, among other things, development costs, the likelihood of receiving regulatory approval and the market for such product candidates. Our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. In addition, we will likely experience significant charges to earnings in connection with our efforts, if any, to consummate acquisitions. For transactions that are ultimately not consummated, these charges may include fees and expenses for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other advisers in connection with our efforts. Even if our efforts are successful, we may incur as part of a transaction substantial charges for closure costs associated with elimination of duplicate operations and facilities and acquired in-process research and development charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. Development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated if we are unable to enter into collaboration agreements in the future or if any future collaboration agreement is subject to lengthy government review. Development and commercialization of some of our product candidates may depend on our ability to enter into additional collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies to fund all or part of the costs of development and commercialization of these product candidates. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements and the terms of the collaboration agreements, if any, may not be favorable to us. Inability to enter into collaboration agreements could delay or preclude development, manufacture and/or marketing of some of our drugs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because: •we may be required to expend additional funds to advance the drugs to commercialization; •revenue from product sales could be delayed; or •we may elect not to commercialize the drugs. 32 We are required to file a notice under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, which we refer to as the HSR Act, for certain agreements containing exclusive license grants and to delay the effectiveness of any such exclusive license until expiration or earlier termination of the notice and waiting period under the HSR Act. If expiration or termination of the notice and waiting period under the HSR Act is delayed because of lengthy government review, or if the Federal Trade Commission or Department of Justice successfully challenges such a license, development and commercialization could be delayed or precluded and our business could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 