Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations, financial condition or results from operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Results and Our Common Stock We have a history of net losses and we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to achieve and maintain profitability on a quarterly and annual basis. Until the year ended December 31, 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our inception. It is possible we will not be able to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We expect to 30 Table of Contents continue to incur significant operating expenditures to further develop and commercialize our products and product candidates and in order to allow us to otherwise expand our product portfolio through drug discovery and business development efforts. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability for any substantial period of time. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to achieve, maintain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, the market price of our common stock may decline. Almost all of our revenues are derived from sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, and our future success depends on the continued commercial success of these products as well as our other products. Approximately 81% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 resulted from sales of LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, and we expect that sales from these two products will continue to represent a significant majority of our revenues for the coming year. However, unit sales for both LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution decreased during the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the same period during the prior year, and may continue to decrease. LUNESTA's market share and unit sales may continue to decrease as a result of the introduction of zolpidem tartrate, the generic equivalent to AMBIEN, in 2007, other competitive products being marketed or developed by others, such as a generic equivalent to AMBIEN CR, which we believe could be introduced as early as March 2009, and potential disruption to our business as we implement our corporate restructuring and workforce reduction plan. Moreover, the growth of the overall non-generic pharmaceutical market, which includes branded drugs such as LUNESTA and XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, has been declining, and may continue to decline, as a result of economic conditions and managed care trends. If we do not maintain sales of LUNESTA and if sales of XOPENEX Inhalation Solution in other markets do not offset the reduction in revenues resulting from our decision to no longer contract with home health providers for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution beginning January 1, 2009, we may not have sufficient revenues to achieve our business plan or repay our outstanding debt, and our business will not be successful. We do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers, and we rely primarily on purchase orders for sales of LUNESTA, XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and our other marketed products. Reductions, delays or cancellations of orders for LUNESTA, XOPENEX Inhalation Solution or our other marketed products could adversely affect our operating results. Any other adverse developments with respect to the sale of LUNESTA or XOPENEX Inhalation Solution could significantly reduce revenues and have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain profitability and achieve our business plan. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully market and sell LUNESTA and/or XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, that we will be able to successfully market and sell BROVANA, XOPENEX HFA, OMNARIS Nasal Spray and ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol, or that any of our marketed products will be accepted in their markets. Specifically, the following factors, among others, could affect the level of success and market acceptance of our products: •a change in the perception of the health care community of their safety and/or efficacy, both in an absolute sense and relative to that of competing products; •the introduction of new products into the sleep or respiratory markets; •the level and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; •any unfavorable publicity regarding these products or similar products; •litigation or threats of litigation with respect to these products; 31 Table of Contents •a finding that our patents are invalid or unenforceable or that generic versions of our marketed products do not infringe our patents or the "at risk" launch of generic versions of our products; •the price of the product relative to other competing drugs or treatments; •private insurers, such as managed care organizations, or MCOs, adopting their own coverage restrictions or demanding price concessions in response to state, Federal or administrative action; •any adverse impact on revenues as a result of our corporate restructuring and workforce reduction plan; •any changes in government and other third-party payor reimbursement policies and practices; and •regulatory developments or other factors affecting the manufacture, marketing or use of these products. In addition, a number of the patents we own and/or license to third parties and for which we receive sales revenues or royalties are the subject of patent invalidation or revocation claims by companies seeking to introduce generic equivalents of the products covered by such patents. We can provide no assurance concerning the duration or outcome of any patent-related lawsuits. If we, or third parties from whom we receive royalties, are not successful in enforcing our respective patents, the companies seeking to market generic versions will not be excluded from marketing their generic versions of these products. Introduction of generic equivalents of any of these products before the expiration of our patents or the patents of our licensees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have significant debt and we may not be able to make principal payments when due. As of December 31, 2008, our total convertible debt was approximately $530.5 million. None of our 0% Series B notes due December 2010 or our 0% notes due October 2024 restricts us or our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional indebtedness, including debt that ranks senior to the notes. The 0% notes due 2024 are senior to the Series B notes due 2010. Additional indebtedness that we incur may in certain circumstances rank senior to or on parity with this debt. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend upon our future performance, which is subject to many factors, including factors beyond our control. Our 0% Series B notes due 2010 are convertible into our common stock at the option of the holders and the conversion price is $29.84. If the market price for our common stock does not exceed the conversion price, the holders of our 0% Series B notes due 2010 may decide not to convert their securities into common stock. For example, the holders of our 0% Series A notes due 2008 did not convert such notes into common stock, and on December 15, 2008, the maturity date for the 0% Series A notes due 2008, we repaid in cash the entire principal amount of $72.8 million. As of December 31, 2008, our total cash, cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments totaled $765.8 million. Our 0% notes due 2024 are convertible into cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock under a conversion formula that becomes applicable if and when our common stock price exceeds $67.20 per share on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Prior to our stock exceeding such price, the notes are convertible at the option of the holders in October 2009, 2014, 2019 and 2024, as well as under certain circumstances. On February 17, 2009, we announced that we commenced a tender offer to purchase for cash up to all $382.5 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 0% notes due 2024. We are offering to purchase the notes at a price of $970 for each $1,000 of principal amount of notes tendered, or a total of $371.0 million if all outstanding 0% notes due 2024 are tendered and repurchased. If holders do not trade and/or we do not repurchase all of the 0% notes due 2024, and if some or all of our significant contingent payments become due and payable 32 Table of Contents under our collaboration agreements, we may not be able to make the required payment upon future conversion of the notes. Historically, we have had negative cash flow from operations, and since 2006 we have experienced positive cash flow from operating activities. Unless we have sufficient cash or are able to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay off the principal of our outstanding debt, we will be required to raise additional funds or default on our obligations under the notes. If operating profits generated from sales of our products does not meet expected levels, it is unlikely that we would have sufficient cash flow to repay our outstanding convertible debt and/or make cash payments upon maturity of the 0% Series B notes due 2010. There can be no assurance that, if required, we would be able to raise the additional funds on favorable terms, if at all. If we exchange debt for shares of common stock, there will be additional dilution to holders of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $148.0 million of outstanding debt that could be converted into shares of our common stock and an additional $382.5 million of outstanding debt that could be converted into cash and, if applicable, shares of our common stock. In order to reduce future payments due at maturity, we have in the past and may, from time to time, depending on market conditions, repurchase additional outstanding convertible debt for cash, such as our outstanding tender offer for the repurchase of our 0% notes due 2024; exchange debt for shares of our common stock, warrants, preferred stock, debt or other consideration; or a combination of any of the foregoing. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, could be material. If we exchange shares of our capital stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for our capital stock, for outstanding convertible debt or use proceeds from the issuance of convertible debt to fund redemption of outstanding convertible debt with a higher conversion ratio, the number of shares that we might issue as a result of such exchanges would significantly exceed the number of shares originally issuable upon conversion of such debt and, accordingly, such exchanges would result in material dilution to holders of our common stock. Repurchase of the notes, including any repurchase of our 0% notes due 2024 pursuant to our outstanding tender offer, could also adversely affect the trading market for such notes if the public float in such notes is materially reduced. We cannot provide assurance that all or any portion of the holders of our 0% notes due 2024 will tender their notes, that we will repurchase any notes that are tendered or that we will repurchase or exchange any additional outstanding convertible debt. If we identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting it could adversely affect our ability to meet reporting obligations and negatively affect the trading price of our stock. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Accordingly, a material weakness increases the risk that the financial information we report contains material errors. As more fully described in Part II, Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we recently remediated a material weakness in our internal control over the process to identify transactions with the potential to establish a new Medicaid best price, which affected the accuracy of our net revenues and product sales allowance and return accounts. However, we may identify additional control deficiencies in the future that individually or in the aggregate constitute a material weakness. If there are other undetected or uncorrected deficiencies in our internal controls, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, we could have material misstatements in our financial statements and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to legal liability. In addition, inferior controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 33 Table of Contents If the estimates we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary from those reflected in our projections and accruals. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, net revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We cannot provide assurance, however, that our estimates, or the assumptions underlying them, will not be materially different from actual results. For example, our royalty revenues are recognized based upon our estimates of our collaboration partners' sales during the period and, if these sales estimates are greater than the actual sales that occur during the period, our net income would be reduced. In addition, we estimate product sales allowances, including payment term discounts, government and commercial rebates and returns and other discounts. If actual amounts differ from these estimates, net income could be adversely affected. Each, in turn, could adversely affect our financial condition, results from operations and stock price. If sufficient funds to finance our business are not available to us when needed or on acceptable terms, then we may be required to delay, scale back, eliminate or alter our business strategy. We may require additional funds for our research and product development programs, operating expenses, repayment of debt, the pursuit of regulatory approvals, license or acquisition opportunities and the expansion of our production, sales and marketing capabilities. Historically, we have satisfied our funding needs through collaboration arrangements with corporate partners, sales of products and equity and debt financings. These funding sources may not be available to us when needed in the future. In addition, the current economic crisis has severely diminished the availability of capital. The cost and terms of any such future financing is unclear, and we can provide no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may also need to issue equity securities with rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock or issue debt securities containing limitations or restrictions on our ability to engage in certain transactions in the future. Insufficient funds could require us to delay, scale back, eliminate or alter certain of our research and product development programs and/or commercialization efforts or to enter into license agreements with third parties to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise develop or commercialize ourselves. Our cash requirements may vary materially from those now planned because of factors including: •patent developments; •licensing or acquisition opportunities; •drug discovery and development efforts; •relationships with collaboration partners; •the FDA regulatory process; •expansion into foreign markets; •litigation and government inquiries and investigations; •whether our 0% Series B notes due 2010 will be paid in cash rather than converted into common stock pursuant to the terms of such debt; •our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions as a result of our corporate restructuring or an adverse impact on revenues as a result of the restructuring; •our capital requirements; and 34 Table of Contents •selling, marketing and manufacturing expenses in connection with commercialization of products. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: •material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses in different tax jurisdictions, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction being different than our estimates; •changing tax laws, accounting standards, such as occurred with the introduction of SFAS No. 123(R), Shared-Based Payment, (revised 2004), or SFAS 123(R) and Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainity in Income Taxes, or FIN 48, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; •an increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired IPR&D and impairment of goodwill; •the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; •changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; •changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and •tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties. Our long-term investments include auction-rate securities that may not be accessible within the next 12 months and may experience a decline in value, which may adversely affect our liquidity and income. At December 31, 2008, $70.9 million of our investment portfolio was invested in AAA rated auction-rate securities. These investments were rated AAA by one or more rating agency. Auction-rate securities are long-term variable rate bonds tied to short-term interest rates. After the initial issuance of the securities, the interest rate on the securities is reset periodically, at intervals established at the time of issuance (primarily every 28 days), based on market demand for a reset period. Auction-rate securities are bought and sold in the marketplace through a competitive bidding process often referred to as an auction. If there is insufficient interest in the securities at the time of an auction, the auction may not be completed and the rates may be reset to predetermined "penalty" or "maximum" rates. Substantially all of our auction-rate securities are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by Federal Family Education Loan Program, or FFELP, and we continue to believe that the credit quality of these securities is high based on this guarantee and other collateral. Auctions for these securities began failing in the first quarter of 2008 and continued to fail throughout the remainder of 2008, which we believe is a result of the recent uncertainties in the credit markets. Consequently, the investments are not currently liquid, and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, the security is called or the underlying securities have matured. At the time of our initial investment and through the date of this report, all of our auction-rate securities remain AAA rated by one or more rating agency. We believe we have the ability to hold these investments until the lack of liquidity in these markets is resolved. As a result, we continue to classify the entire balance of auction-rate securities as non-current available-for-sale investments at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. 35 Table of Contents Typically, the fair value of auction-rate securities investments approximates par value due to the frequent resets through the auction process. While we continue to earn interest on our auction-rate securities investments at the contractual rate, these investments are not currently trading and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of the auction-rate securities no longer approximates par value. At December 31, 2008, because of the temporary declines in fair value for the auction-rate securities, which we attribute to liquidity matters rather than credit issues as discussed above, we have classified our auction-rate securities at Level 3, as defined under the SFAS 157, Fair Value Measurements, or SFAS 157, framework and described in Note E "Fair Value Measurements" of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, with a fair value of $70.9 million. The fair value of these auction-rate securities are estimated utilizing a trinomial discounted cash flow analysis, which was compared, when possible, to other observable market data or inputs with similar characteristics. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow analysis include estimates for the maximum interest rate, the probability of passing, failing or default at each auction, the severity of default and the discount rate. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of December 31, 2008, we determined there was a decline in fair value of our auction-rate securities investments of $8.7 million, which we deem temporary. If current market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate, the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, or we need funds from the auction-rate securities to meet working capital needs, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these investments through impairment charges recorded to earnings, as appropriate, which could be material. Fluctuations in the demand for our products, the success and timing of clinical trials, regulatory approvals, product introductions, collaboration and licensing arrangements, any termination of development efforts and other material events will cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, which could cause volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to be volatile. These fluctuations will depend on many factors, including: •timing and extent of product sales and market penetration; •timing and extent of operating expenses, including selling and marketing expenses and the costs of reducing, expanding and/or maintaining a direct sales force or attaining the services of a co-promotion partner or contract sales force; •success and timing of regulatory filings and approvals for products developed by us or our licensing or collaborative partners; •timing of product introductions; •success of product introductions, including OMNARIS Nasal Spray and ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol; •changes in third-party reimbursement policies; •introduction of competitive products into the market; •results of clinical trials with respect to products under development; •a finding that our patents are invalid or unenforceable or that generic versions of our products do not infringe our patents or the "at risk" launch of generic versions of our products; •a finding that our products infringe the patents of a third party; 36 Table of Contents •the initiation of, or adverse developments in, any judicial litigation proceedings or governmental investigations in which we are involved; •a change in the perception of the health care and/or investor communities with respect to our products; •success and timing of collaboration agreements for development of our pharmaceutical candidates and development costs for those pharmaceuticals; •timing of receipt or payment of upfront, milestone or royalty payments under collaboration or licensing agreements; •unfavorable publicity regarding our company or our products or competitive products; •timing and success of any business and/or product acquisitions; •timing and success of expansion into foreign markets; •termination of development efforts of any product under development or any collaboration agreement; and •timing of expenses we may incur with respect to any license or acquisition of products or technologies. We have various mechanisms in place to discourage takeover attempts, which may reduce or eliminate our stockholders' ability to sell their shares for a premium in a change of control transaction. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware corporate law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or takeover attempt of our company by a third-party that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to benefit from a change of control or change in our management and board of directors. These provisions include: •preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or to discourage a third-party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock; •classification of our directors into three classes with respect to the time for which they hold office; •non-cumulative voting for directors; •control by our board of directors of the size of our board of directors; •limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •inability of our stockholders to take any action by written consent; and •advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by our stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, in June 2002, our board of directors adopted a shareholder rights plan, the provisions of which could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer of Sepracor to consummate an acquisition transaction. 37 Table of Contents The price of our common stock historically has been volatile, which could cause the loss of part or all of an investment in Sepracor. The market price of our common stock, like that of the common stock of many other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, has been highly volatile. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The volatility and market prices of securities of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been significantly affected for reasons frequently unrelated to, or disproportionate to, the operating performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Prices for our common stock are determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including variations in our financial results and investors' perceptions of us, and changes in recommendations by securities analysts as well as their perceptions of general economic, industry and market conditions. Risks Related to Commercialization, Marketing and Sales We face intense competition and many of our competitors have greater resources and capabilities than we have. We face intense competition in the sale of our current products, and expect to face intense competition in the sale of any future products we sell. If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected because we may not achieve our product revenue objectives and because we may use our financial resources to seek to differentiate ourselves from our competition. Large and small companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private organizations conduct research, seek patent protection, develop and acquire products, establish collaborative arrangements for product development and sell or license products in competition with us. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater resources, manufacturing and sales and marketing capabilities, research and development staff and production facilities than we have. Moreover, the therapeutic categories in which we compete are subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture and marketing of new products and/or technologies than we can. As a result, any products and/or technologies that we develop may become obsolete or noncompetitive before we can recover expenses incurred in connection with their development. For all of our marketed products, we need to demonstrate to physicians, patients and third-party payors the benefits of the products in terms of their safety, efficacy and cost, both on a stand-alone basis and, where appropriate, relative to competing products. The growth of the overall market for branded pharmaceutical products, such as ours, has been decreasing, and we expect it will continue to decrease, due to increased generic competition, economic conditions and managed care trends. In addition, if competitors introduce new products or develop new processes or new information about existing products, then our marketed products, even those protected by patents, may be replaced in the marketplace or we may be required to lower our prices. Competition in the United States LUNESTA For insomnia treatments, LUNESTA faces intense competition from established branded and generic products in several drug classes including benzodiazepines, non-benzodiazepines, melatonin agonists, select antidepressants and others. We estimate that our existing LUNESTA prescriptions account for less than 9% of the total annual prescriptions currently being written in the United States for insomnia pharmaceutical therapies. Furthermore, LUNESTA faces substantial competition from non-prescription, over-the-counter and dietary supplement insomnia product options. During 2008, 38 Table of Contents partially as a result of increasing competition, LUNESTA unit sales and market share decreased. We expect that LUNESTA will face increasing competition from a generic version of AMBIEN that was introduced in April 2007, a generic version of AMBIEN CR, which we believe could be introduced as early as March 2009, and therapies in clinical development or under FDA review for the treatment of insomnia. We may also face additional competition in the event of commercial introduction of a generic version of LUNESTA. To be successful with LUNESTA, we must demonstrate to physicians, patients and payors the safety and efficacy benefits of the product, both on a stand-alone basis and, where appropriate, relative to competing products, both generic and branded. XOPENEX FRANCHISE For asthma and COPD treatments, XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA face intense competition from a variety of products. Patients with asthma and COPD turn to numerous classes of drugs, including corticosteroids, long-acting beta-agonists, short-acting beta-agonists, leukotriene modifiers, anticholingerics, and others, as well as certain combinations thereof. XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA together account for approximately 4% of the total annual prescriptions currently being written in the United States for asthma and COPD pharmaceutical therapies. XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA also face intense competition specifically within the beta-agonist classes of asthma and COPD treatments. We estimate that our existing XOPENEX prescriptions account for approximately 11% of the total annual prescriptions currently being written in the United States for beta-agonist asthma and COPD pharmaceutical therapies. Both monotherapy and combination therapy beta-agonist treatments compete directly with our XOPENEX products for the treatment of asthma and COPD. Albuterol, a short-acting beta-agonist, has been available generically for many years. Products containing albuterol as an active ingredient are well established and sell at prices substantially lower than XOPENEX Inhalation Solution and XOPENEX HFA. XOPENEX HFA also faces direct competition from branded HFA albuterol MDIs. Furthermore, as a consequence of our ongoing commercialization of BROVANA, prescription levels for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution may be adversely affected to the extent that a significant number of physicians prescribe BROVANA, which could reduce the concomitant need for XOPENEX products. We may also face additional competition in the event of the commercial introduction of generic versions of our XOPENEX products. To be successful with our XOPENEX products, we must demonstrate that the efficacy and safety features of these drugs outweigh the higher price as compared to generic albuterol and other competing products and that these attributes differentiate these products from other asthma and COPD treatments, including beta-agonist asthma and COPD treatments. BROVANA For COPD treatments, BROVANA faces competition from a variety of products. Competitive products include all products used in the treatment of COPD. Patients with COPD turn to numerous classes of drugs including anticholingerics, corticosteroids, mukolytics, long-acting beta-agonists, short-acting beta-agonists, theophyllines, and others to treat their condition. We estimate that our existing BROVANA prescriptions account for less than 1% of the total annual prescriptions currently being written in the United States for COPD pharmaceutical therapies, and less than 1% of beta-agonist COPD pharmaceutical therapies, specifically. Even though BROVANA is a nebulized product, it also faces competition from long-acting beta-agonists and anticholinergics delivered by MDI and dry-powder inhaler. BROVANA also competes with combination therapy products used for COPD. To be successful with BROVANA, we must demonstrate to physicians, patients and payors the safety and efficacy benefits of the product, both on a stand-alone basis and, where appropriate, relative to competing products, both generic and branded. 39 Table of Contents OMNARIS Nasal Spray OMNARIS Nasal Spray, a corticosteroid nasal spray, competes with perennial and seasonal allergic rhinitis treatments, and faces competition from oral antihistamines, intranasal antihistamines, intranasal decongestants, other intranasal corticosteroids, intranasal mast cell stabilizers, and antileukotrienes. We estimate that our existing OMNARIS Nasal Spray prescriptions account for less than 1% of the total annual prescriptions currently being written in the United States for allergic rhinitis pharmaceutical therapies, and less and 1% of inhaled nasal corticosteroid allergic rhinitis pharmaceutical therapies, specifically. To be successful with OMNARIS Nasal Spray, we must demonstrate to physicians, patients and payors the safety and efficacy benefits of the product, both on a stand-alone basis and, where appropriate, relative to competing branded and generic products, some of which may be less expensive than OMNARIS Nasal Spray and may be available without a prescription. We may also face additional competition in the event of commercial introduction of a generic version of OMNARIS Nasal Spray. ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol, an inhaled corticosteroid in an MDI, competes with other asthma therapies, including asthma controller therapies, and faces competition from leukotriene receptor antagonists, inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting beta-agonist combinations, monotherapy long-acting beta-agonists and other monotherapy inhaled corticosteroids. In addition, several of these categories will have generic product entries in the future, which will likely result in competitive products that are less expensive than ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol. To be successful with ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol, we must demonstrate to physicians, patients and payors the safety and efficacy benefits of the product, both on a stand-alone basis and, where appropriate, relative to competing products, both generic and branded. Competition in Canada SPI faces competition from Canadian specialty pharmaceutical companies and large multi-national companies that commercialize competing products. Competition and innovation from these or other sources could potentially have a negative impact on sales of our products marketed in Canada, or make them obsolete. In addition, when seeking to license new products for distribution in Canada, we face competition from companies such as Paladin Labs Inc., Axcan Pharma Inc., Biovail Corporation, and other small-to mid-tier pharmaceutical companies that have the same or similar in-licensing strategies. SPI may also be at a competitive marketing disadvantage against companies that have broader product lines and whose sales personnel are able to offer more complementary products than SPI. In addition, SPI could face competition in the event of commercial introduction of generic versions of one or more of its marketed products. We may be unable to successfully commercialize products for which we receive approval from the FDA or similar foreign agencies. Commercialization of a product for which we have received an approval letter from the FDA or similar foreign agency could be delayed for a number of reasons, some of which are outside of our control, including delays in delivery of the product due to importation regulations and/or problems with our distribution channels or delays in the issuance of approvals from, or the completion of, required procedures by agencies other than the FDA, such as the United States Drug Enforcement Administration. In addition, commercialization of approved products may be delayed by our failure to timely finalize distribution arrangements, manufacturing processes and arrangements, produce sufficient inventory and/or properly prepare our sales force. If we are unable to successfully commercialize a product promptly after receipt of an approval letter, our business and financial position may be materially adversely affected due to reduced revenues from product sales during the period or periods that commercialization is delayed and the shortening of any lead time to market we may have had over 40 Table of Contents our competitors. In addition, the exclusivity period, which is the time during which the FDA or similar foreign agency will prevent generic pharmaceutical companies from introducing a generic copy of the product, begins to run upon approval and, therefore, to the extent we are unable to successfully commercialize a product promptly after receipt of an approval letter, our long-term product sales and revenues could be adversely affected. Even if the FDA or similar foreign agencies grant us regulatory approval of a product, if we fail to comply with the applicable regulatory requirements, we may be forced to suspend and/or cease commercialization of the product due to suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizures of products and/or operating restrictions and may be subject to fines and criminal prosecution. In any such event, our ability to successfully commercialize the product would be impaired and sales and revenues could be materially adversely affected. We sell our products primarily through a direct sales force, and if we are not successful in attracting and retaining qualified sales personnel, we may not be successful in commercializing our products. In addition, our recent decision to significantly reduce the number of our sales positions could impair our ability to maintain or increase sales levels or successfully commercialize new products. We have established a sales force to market our products. Our ability to realize significant revenues from direct marketing and sales activities depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense. In January 2009, we decided to reduce the number of our sales force positions, which included the reduction of approximately 350 field-based positions and the elimination of approximately 410 contract sales organization sales representative positions. This sales force reduction could harm our ability to attract and retain qualified sales personnel. Any failure to attract or retain qualified sales personnel could prevent us from successfully commercializing our products, impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or support potential sales growth and sales of additional products we may commercialize in the future. The recently announced sales force reduction could also result in lack of focus and reduced productivity among our sales personnel and could result in an adverse impact on our revenues. If our sales organization does not devote the time and resources necessary to attain sales projections, we may not be able to achieve anticipated revenues and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. We may increase or decrease the size of our sales force in the future based on assumptions that prove inaccurate. For example, such increases may be done in anticipation of approvals and/or expected sales growth that are not realized. Any future expansion of the direct sales force will require us to incur significant expenses. To the extent we expand our direct sales force in anticipation of receiving marketing approval for products under development, commercially introducing newly developed or acquired products and/or expected sales growth, we may again be forced to reduce our sales force if our expectations are not realized. In addition, our recently announced sales force reduction, and any future sales force reduction, may make it more difficult for us to attract the qualified sales people necessary to implement necessary sales force expansion. We may also need to enter into additional co-promotion, contract sales force or other such arrangements with third parties, for example, where our own direct sales force is not large enough or sufficiently well aligned to achieve maximum penetration in the market. We may not be successful in entering into any co-promotion, contract sales force or other such arrangements, and the terms of any co-promotion, contract sales force or other such arrangements may not be favorable to us. Our corporate restructuring and workforce reduction plan may not result in anticipated savings, could result in total costs and expenses that are greater than expected and could disrupt our business. In January 2009, we announced a corporate restructuring and workforce reduction plan pursuant to which we intend to reduce our workforce by approximately 20%. In addition, we eliminated 41 Table of Contents approximately 410 contract sales organization sales representative positions. These representatives marketed OMNARIS Nasal Spray, ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol and our XOPENEX products from September 2008 through January 2009. We are taking these actions in order to reduce costs, streamline operations and improve our cost structure, and we expect that this restructuring plan will result in a significant reduction in operating expenses. The workforce reduction is expected to be substantially completed by the end of the second quarter of 2009. As a result of the reduction in workforce, we expect to record restructuring charges and make future payments of between $33.0 million and $37.0 million, a substantial portion of which we anticipate will be recorded in the first quarter of 2009. These estimated restructuring charges are based on a number of assumptions. Actual results may differ materially and additional charges not currently expected may be incurred in connection with, or as a result of, these reductions. In addition, we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits, savings and improvements in our cost structure from our restructuring efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve the anticipated benefits, savings or improvements in our cost structure in the expected time frame or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our restructuring plan may be disruptive to our operations. For example, cost savings measures may distract management from our core business, harm our reputation, yield unanticipated consequences, such as attrition beyond planned reductions in workforce, or increased difficulties in our day-to-day operations, and may adversely affect employee morale. Our workforce reductions could also harm our ability to attract and retain qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel who are critical to our business. Any failure to attract or retain qualified personnel could prevent us from successfully developing and commercializing our products and product candidates, impair our ability to maintain sales levels and/or support potential sales growth and sales of additional products we may commercialize in the future. Moreover, although we believe it is necessary to reduce the cost of our operations to improve our performance, these initiatives may preclude us from making potentially significant expenditures that could improve our product offerings and competitiveness over the longer term. We may not be able to meet the unique operational, legal and financial challenges that we will encounter in our international operations, which may limit the growth of our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain approval for, and market and sell, our products in foreign markets. We undertake these activities both on our own and in conjunction with strategic partners. Expanding sales of our products and operations internationally could impose substantial burdens on our resources, divert management's attention from domestic operations and otherwise adversely affect our business. Furthermore, international operations are subject to several inherent risks including: •failure of local laws to provide adequate protection against infringement of our intellectual property; •protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow or prohibit our growth in international markets; •difficulties in terminating or modifying business arrangements because of restrictions in markets outside the United States; •delays in regulatory approval of our products outside of the United States; •manufacturing, import, export or other similar inspection or regulatory requirements imposed by non-U.S. authorities; 42 Table of Contents •our ability to avoid the re-importation of our products into the United States at prices that are lower than those maintained by us in the United States; •currency conversion issues arising from sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar; •foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; •longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; and •governmental activities related to pricing for products outside of the United States. If we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, our international operations may not be successful, which would limit the growth of our business and could adversely impact our results of operations. If we, our collaboration partners or our third-party manufacturers, do not comply with cGMP regulations, then the FDA or other regulatory authorities could refuse to approve marketing applications or force us to recall or withdraw our marketed products. The FDA and other regulatory authorities require that our marketed products be manufactured according to their cGMP regulations. The failure by us, our collaborative partners or our third-party manufacturers to comply with cGMP regulations could lead to delay in our development programs or refusal by the FDA or other regulatory authorities to approve marketing applications. Following marketing approval of a product, failure in either respect could also impede commercial introduction or ongoing distribution of the product and/or be the basis for action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities to withdraw approvals previously granted, to recall products and for other regulatory action. We could be exposed to significant liability claims that could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts. We may be subject to product liability claims that arise through clinical testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale and use of pharmaceutical products. Product liability claims could distract our management and key personnel from our core business, require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages, which could prevent or interfere with our product commercialization efforts and could adversely affect our business. Claims of this nature could also subject us to product recalls or adversely affect our reputation, which could damage our position in the market. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and products we commercialize, it is possible that we will not be able to obtain further product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and that our insurance coverage may not provide adequate coverage against all potential claims. Buying patterns of our wholesalers may vary from time to time, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Sales of our products to wholesalers represent a substantial portion of our total sales. Buying patterns of our wholesalers may vary from time to time, in part as a result of pricing, seasonality or stage of a product in its life cycle. Wholesalers, or direct customers of wholesalers, may accumulate inventory in one quarter and limit product purchases in subsequent quarters, which could have a material impact on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We have entered into wholesaler fee-for-service agreements, or FFSAs, with several of our customers. Under the FFSAs, we pay a fee to maintain certain minimum inventory levels. We believe it is beneficial to enter into FFSAs to establish specified levels of product inventory to be maintained and to obtain more precise information as to the level of our product inventory available throughout the 43 Table of Contents product distribution channel. We record the cost associated with the FFSAs as revenue deductions. We cannot be certain that the FFSAs will be effective in limiting speculative purchasing activity, that there will not be a future drawdown of inventory as a result of minimum inventory requirements, or otherwise, or that the inventory level data provided through our FFSAs are accurate. If speculative purchasing does occur, if these customers significantly decrease their inventory levels, or if inventory level data provided through FFSAs is inaccurate, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations may also be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment If our product candidates do not receive government approval, we will not be able to commercialize them. The FDA and similar foreign agencies must approve for commercialization in the relevant jurisdiction any pharmaceutical products developed by us or our development partners. These agencies impose substantial requirements on drug manufacturing and marketing. Any unanticipated preclinical and clinical studies we or our collaboration development partners are required to undertake, could result in a significant increase in the cost of advancing our products to commercialization. In addition, failure by us or our collaborative development partners to obtain regulatory approval on a timely basis, or at all, or the attempt by us or our collaborative development partners to receive regulatory approval to achieve labeling objectives, could prevent or adversely affect the timing of commercial introduction of, or our ability to market and sell, our products. If we fail to successfully develop and receive regulatory approval for product candidates, we will be unable to commercialize the product candidates and future sales and earnings growth will be substantially hampered. Our ability to maintain profitability will depend in large part on successful development and commercialization of additional products. Most of our product candidates are in the early stages of development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop or acquire and commercially introduce new products in a timely manner or that new products, if developed or acquired, will be approved for the indications and/or with the labeling we expect, or that they will achieve market acceptance. Before we commercialize any other product candidate in the United States, we will need to successfully develop the product candidate by completing successful clinical trials, submitting an NDA for the product candidate that is accepted for filing by the FDA and receiving FDA approval to market the candidate. We must comply with similar requirements in foreign jurisdictions before commercializing any products in the jurisdiction. If we fail to successfully develop a product candidate and/or the FDA or similar foreign agency delays or denies approval of any NDA, or foreign equivalent, that we have submitted or submit in the future, then commercialization of our products under development may be delayed or terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of problems may arise during the development of our product candidates, including the following: •results of clinical trials may not be consistent with preclinical study results; •results from later phases of clinical trials may not be consistent with results from earlier phases; •results from clinical trials may not demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and efficacious; •the product candidate may not offer therapeutic or other improvements over comparable drugs; •we may not receive regulatory approval for our product candidates; •we may elect not to continue funding the development of our product candidates; or •funds may not be available to develop all of our product candidates. 44 Table of Contents Even if the FDA or similar foreign agencies grant us regulatory approval of a product, the approval may take longer than we anticipate and may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing follow up studies. Moreover, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. In addition, our growth is dependent on our continued ability to penetrate new markets where we have limited experience and competition is intense. We cannot be certain that the markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets, that our products will achieve customer acceptance in these markets, that competitors or regulators will not force prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share from us, or that we can achieve or maintain profits in these markets. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payors, and limitations on coverage availability or a reduction in payment rate or reimbursement could result in decreased use or sales of our products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors such as Federal, state and foreign government agencies under programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance plans. Third-party payors continually attempt to contain or reduce the cost of health care by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We may not be able to sell our products profitably if reimbursement is unavailable or coverage is limited in scope or amount. There have been, there are, and we expect there will continue to be, state and Federal legislative and/or administrative proposals that could limit the amount that state or Federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of pharmaceutical products. Legislative or administrative acts including, but not limited to, bundling multiple products into the same reimbursement code, imposing least costly alternatives that reference the reimbursement for our products to that of lower priced alternative therapies, conducting comparative effectiveness evaluations, and changing the manner in which reimbursement is calculated for prescription drugs, can reduce reimbursement for our products and could adversely affect our business. In addition, private insurers, such as MCOs, may adopt their own coverage restrictions or demand price concessions in response to legislation or administrative action. Reduction in reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, the increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States may put increasing pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely affect product sales. Further, when a new drug product is approved, governmental and/or private reimbursement for that product is uncertain, as is the amount for which that product will be reimbursed and the extent of coverage for the product. We cannot predict future availability or amount of reimbursement for our approved products or product candidates and current reimbursement policies for our marketed products may change at any time. The MMA established a prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006 for all Medicare beneficiaries. We do not know the extent to which our marketed products that are included in the Medicare prescription drug benefit will continue to be included, and we may be required to provide significant discounts or rebates to drug plans participating in the Medicare drug benefit. Moreover, Congress may enact legislation that permits the Federal government to directly negotiate price and demand discounts on pharmaceutical products that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs. In addition, MCOs, Health Maintenance Organizations, or HMOs, Preferred Provider Organizations, or PPOs, health care institutions and other government agencies continue to seek price discounts. MCOs, HMOs, PPOs and private health plans administer the Medicare drug benefit, leading to managed care and private health plans influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population. In 45 Table of Contents addition, certain states have proposed, and certain other states have adopted, various programs to control prices for their seniors' and low-income drug programs, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, restrictions on access to certain products, importation from other countries, such as Canada, and bulk purchasing of drugs. As we enter into agreements to license our products for commercialization outside of the United States, we may be subject to pricing decisions made by regulatory bodies and private insurers around the world. Such pricing decisions may affect royalty rates and payments made to us under those agreements, or decisions whether or not to commercialize our products in the applicable jurisdiction. Efforts to obtain pricing decisions are often the responsibility of our third-party licensees, and we cannot predict the success of any third-party in obtaining desirable pricing, or how the actions of such third-party or any regulatory body or private insurer will affect the ultimate commercial benefits of those transactions. If reimbursement for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our other current or future products, health care providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. We will spend considerable time and money complying with Federal, state and foreign laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws and regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We are subject to extensive regulation by Federal, state and foreign governments. The laws that directly or indirectly affect our business include, but are not limited to, the following: •Federal Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback laws, which prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either referral of an individual, or furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under Federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; •other Medicare and Medicaid laws and regulations that establish requirements for coverage and payment for marketing our products, including the amount of such payments; •the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; •the Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private payors and, further, requires us to comply with standards regarding privacy and security of individually identifiable health information and conduct certain electronic transactions using standardized code sets; •the Federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, health care benefits, items or services; •the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of prescription drugs and medical devices; •the Hatch-Waxman Act, and amendments thereto, including the MMA, which regulate pharmaceutical patent litigation; •the Controlled Substances Act, which regulates handling of controlled substances such as LUNESTA; 46 Table of Contents •the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which governs the filing of applications for marketing approval of new prescription drug products; •the FDA Amendments Act of 2007; •the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005; •state and foreign law equivalents of the foregoing; and •state food and drug laws, pharmacy acts and state pharmacy board regulations, which govern the sale, distribution, use, administration and prescribing of prescription drugs. If our past, present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs and curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. In addition, if we are required to obtain permits or licenses under these laws that we do not already possess, we may become subject to substantial additional regulation or incur significant expense. Any penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid programs or curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management's attention from operating our business and damage our reputation. Federal and state government agencies also continue to promote efforts to reduce health care costs, including those associated with the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These efforts may include supplemental rebates and restrictions on the amounts that agencies will reimburse for the use of products. In addition, both the Federal and state governments have initiated investigations and lawsuits concerning the Medicaid price reporting practices of many pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with the Medicaid rebate program. For example, in November 2008, along with approximately 15 other pharmaceutical companies, we were sued by the State of Kansas in state court for allegedly inducing fraudulent payments for our products by Kansas Medicaid through our alleged manipulation of the average wholesale prices for our products. We have joined other branded product defendants in filing a motion to dismiss this cause of action and we expect the court to decide on this motion in March 2009. No trial date has been set and no answer has been filed by us pending the state court's action on the motion to dismiss. While we are prepared to defend against these allegations, it is too early to make a reasonable assessment as to the likely outcome of this litigation. We could be subject to damages and penalties as a consequence of this lawsuit, if we are found liable. The approval of the sale of certain medications without a prescription may adversely affect our business. In May 2001, an advisory panel to the FDA recommended that the FDA allow certain popular allergy medications to be sold without a prescription. In November 2002 and November 2007, the FDA approved CLARITIN® and ZYRTEC®, respectively, both allergy medications, to be sold without a prescription. In the future, the FDA may allow the sale of additional allergy medications without a prescription. The sale of CLARITIN, ZYRTEC and/or, if allowed, other allergy medications without a prescription, may have a material adverse effect on our business because the market for prescription drugs, including CLARINEX and XYZAL/XUSAL for which we receive royalties on sales, has been and may continue to be, adversely affected. 47 Table of Contents We provided PHS discounts to entities we have determined are ineligible for such pricing in periods prior to 2008. This circumstance creates uncertainty as to whether a new Medicaid best price was set in prior periods. If a new best price was set, we will be required to pay additional Medicaid rebates. In addition, we may face an increased risk of investigation or litigation concerning our Medicaid price reporting or other price reporting obligations. Under the Medicaid rebate program, we are obligated to pay a rebate to each participating state Medicaid program for each unit of our product reimbursed by that program. The amount of the rebate for each product is set by law as the greater of (a) 15.1% of AMP or (b) the difference between AMP and the Medicaid best price, which is the lowest price available from us to any customer not excluded by law from that determination. The rules related to determining AMP and best price are complicated. We compute best price and the required rebate payments each quarter based on our knowledge of the statutory requirements, the current CMS guidance and our understanding of which customers are properly excluded from best price consideration. In January 2008, we notified CMS that we had identified potential errors in our determination of the best price used to calculate Medicaid rebate amounts in prior periods. As a result of these potential errors, in the first quarter of 2008 we reduced and restated revenues for periods prior to 2008 for contingent rebates based on management's best estimates and assumptions made prior to any concurrence by CMS. We have been in regular contact with CMS regarding our process for addressing these potential errors. We have begun applying the processes and procedures resulting from our remediation efforts to our historical price reporting submissions and we plan to communicate the final results of our review in 2009 to CMS and, as necessary, the Health Resources and Services Administration and state Medicaid programs. The extent to which we reduced our revenues in prior periods due to contingent rebates may change as a result of our continued review and future communications with CMS, and we are uncertain whether we have overestimated the amount of additional rebates we may be required to pay, or whether we will be subject to fines, penalties or interest. Both the federal government and state governments have initiated investigations and lawsuits concerning the Medicaid price reporting practices of many pharmaceutical companies to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Medicaid rebate program legislation. As a result of the errors that we identified in our calculation of Medicaid rebate reserve amounts, we may face an increased risk of a government investigation or lawsuits concerning our Medicaid or other price reporting. If any such investigation or lawsuit is initiated, we may be required to pay additional rebates or other amounts related to sales made in prior periods, and we may be subject to fines, penalties or interest. In addition, an investigation or lawsuit concerning our Medicaid price reporting could be costly, could divert the attention of our management from our core business and could damage our reputation. If our drugs are not included on state Preferred Drug Lists, use of our drugs may be negatively affected. Several state Medicaid programs have implemented PDLs and more states may adopt this practice. Products placed on a state Medicaid program's PDL are not subject to restrictions on their utilization by Medicaid patients, such as the need to obtain authorization prior to prescribing. If our drugs are not included on Medicaid PDLs, use of our drugs in the Medicaid program may be adversely affected. In some states that have adopted PDLs, we have been, and may continue to be, required to provide substantial supplemental rebates to state Medicaid authorities in order for our drugs to be included on the PDL. Failure to comply with existing and future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous environmental, safety and health laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, the generation, use and storage of hazardous materials as well 48 Table of Contents as the health and safety of our employees. Our operations can involve the handling of hazardous and other highly regulated materials which, if not properly handled or disposed of, could subject us to civil and criminal liabilities under these laws and regulations. We may have not been, and we may not at all times in the future be, in compliance with such environmental, safety and health laws and regulations. The costs of complying with existing and future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations may be significant. In addition to these costs, the costs and expenses associated with any future claims for personal injury or the clean-up of hazardous materials could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we or our collaboration partners fail to adequately protect or enforce our respective intellectual property rights, then we could lose revenue under our licensing agreements or lose sales to generic equivalents of our marketed products. Our success depends in large part on our ability, and the ability of our collaboration partners, to obtain, maintain and successfully enforce patents, and protect trade secrets. Our ability to commercialize any drug successfully will largely depend upon our ability, and the ability of our collaboration partners, to obtain and maintain patents, including successful enforcement of those patents, of sufficient scope to prevent third parties from developing the same or substantially equivalent products. Our revenues under collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies also depend in part on the existence and scope of issued patents. In the absence of patent and trade secret protection, competitors may adversely affect our business by independently developing and marketing the same or substantially equivalent products. It is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we are required to initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We have filed patent applications covering composition of, methods of making, and/or methods of using, our products and product candidates. We may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we file in the future and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover the products licensed under these collaboration agreements. Generally, we do not receive royalty revenues from sales of products licensed under collaboration agreements in countries where we do not have a patent for such products. The issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. Furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions, and has been, and remains the subject of, much litigation. Legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving. Any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Moreover, the United States Patent and Trademark Office may commence interference proceedings involving our patents or patent applications. Any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our patents or patent applications would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we are not successful in obtaining patents of sufficient scope and enforcing our patents, we will not be able to prevent others from introducing generic versions of our products. If we or our licensees do not prevail against those parties seeking to market generic versions of our products or products for which we receive royalties, our business will be adversely affected and we may not have sufficient revenues to achieve our business plan or repay our outstanding debt. With respect to XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, Breath, Dey, L.P., Barr, Teva, Watson and Apotex, have filed ANDAs including Paragraph IV certifications with the FDA seeking to market a generic version of levalbuterol hydrochloride inhalation solution before our patents expire. We brought an action against Breath for patent infringement, and in April 2008 we settled this matter and the litigation is now concluded. However, patent infringement litigation remains outstanding against 49 Table of Contents Dey, L.P. and Barr. Our settlement with Breath and on going litigation with Dey, L.P. and Barr are described in detail in Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have decided not to commence litigation against Watson, Teva and Apotex as their respective Paragraph IV certifications are limited to a single patent that expires in 2021. In May 2008, we provided to the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice Antitrust Division the notifications of the settlement with Breath as required under Section 1112(a) of the MMA. The settlement with Breath and the other agreements with Breath and its affiliates, including the supply agreement, the agreement for the acquisition of Oryx and license agreements with Arrow, may be reviewed by antitrust enforcement agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission and Department of Justice Antitrust Division. There can be no assurances that governmental authorities will not seek to challenge the settlement with Breath or that a competitor, customer or other third-party will not initiate a private action under antitrust or other laws challenging the settlement with Breath. We may not prevail in any such challenges or litigation and, in any event, may incur significant costs in the event of an investigation or in defending any action under antitrust laws. Beginning February 9, 2009, we received notices from Teva, Cobalt Laboratories, Dr. Reddy's, Orchid, Glenmark Generics, Roxane, Lupin, Wockhardt and Sun Global, that each has filed an ANDA with the FDA for generic versions of eszopiclone tablets (1 mg, 2 mg and 3 mg). Each submission includes a Paragraph IV certification alleging that one or more of our patents listed in the Orange Book for LUNESTA is invalid, unenforceable or not infringed by their respective proposed generic products. We anticipate receipt of additional notices that other ANDAs with Paragraph IV certifications have been filed by different generic pharmaceutical companies. We are currently contemplating commencing civil actions against these parties for patent infringement and will consider commencing patent infringement litigation against any other company that files an ANDA that includes a Paragraph IV certification with respect to eszopiclone. Certain of Schering-Plough's CLARINEX products for which we receive sales royalties are currently the subject of patent infringement litigation. Since June 2007, the FDA has received ANDAs relating to various dosage forms of CLARINEX from eleven different generic pharmaceutical companies. These ANDA submissions include Paragraph IV certifications alleging that our patents, which Schering-Plough (as exclusive licensee of such patents) listed in the Orange Book for these products, are invalid, unenforceable and/or not infringed by the submitter's proposed product. We and the University of Massachusetts, co-owners of certain patents listed in the Orange Book, filed civil actions against these parties for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. In April 2008, the trial judge consolidated these cases for all purposes including discovery and trial. The court has not set a trial date. We believe that all of these ANDAs are subject to a statutory stay of approval until at least December 21, 2009 based on previous litigation commenced by Schering-Plough against these parties in separate civil actions involving another patent. We entered into a consent agreement with one of these ANDA filers whereby the ANDA filer agreed not to pursue its case or market its CLARINEX product until the expiration of our patents listed by Schering-Plough in the Orange Book or until our patents for the product are found invalid or unenforceable. In addition, as a result of separate formal settlement agreements that Schering-Plough entered into with several ANDA filers involved in litigation with Schering-Plough, or Schering-Plough Settlement Agreements, we and the University of Massachusetts submitted, and the court approved, stipulations of dismissal without prejudice against five of the ANDA filers that we sued. In addition, we and the University of Massachusetts, submitted one additional stipulation of dismissal without prejudice that is awaiting approval by the court and have actions remaining against four additional ANDA filers. The Schering-Plough Settlement Agreements entered to date permit generic entry of CLARINEX-D®-12 Hour, CLARINEX-D® -24 Hour and CLARINEX® REDITABS® on January 1, 2012 and CLARINEX® 5 mg tablet on July 1, 2012. Upon generic entry of each product by a party to 50 Table of Contents a Schering-Plough Settlement Agreement, our right to receive royalties on sales of such product will be significantly reduced. UCB S.A.'s XYZAL 5 mg product, for which we receive royalties, is currently the subject of patent infringement litigation. The FDA has received ANDAs from four generic pharmaceutical companies that include Paragraph IV certifications alleging that one of our patents, which UCB S.A. (as NDA holder and licensee of the patent) listed in the Orange Book for this product, is invalid and/or not infringed by the ANDA filer's product. UCB S.A., on its own and on our behalf, commenced patent infringement litigation against all of these parties. We believe that these ANDAs are subject to a statutory stay of approval until at least on or about August 29, 2010. In addition, a number of our foreign patents that we have out-licensed to Schering-Plough, sanofi-aventis and the UCB Farchim S.A. in connection with the sale of CLARINEX, ALLEGRA and XYZAL/XUSAL, respectively, are subject to patent invalidity claims. If patent-based exclusivity is lost for one or more of these products in any foreign jurisdiction, our rights to receive royalty revenue with respect to such product in the relevant jurisdiction will terminate, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Should the courts uphold our foreign patents, companies seeking to market generic versions of our drugs and the drugs of our licensees should be deterred from market entry until the expiration of the applicable patent(s). Patent litigation involves complex legal and factual questions. We can provide no assurance concerning the duration or outcome of any patent-related lawsuits. If we, third parties from whom we receive royalties, or third parties from whom we have licensed products or received other rights to commercialize products, are not successful in enforcing relevant patents, the companies seeking to market generic versions of our marketed drugs and the drugs of our licensees will not be excluded, for the full term of our patents, from marketing their generic versions of our marketed products or third-party products for which we have licensed rights to our patents. Introduction of generic equivalents of any of our marketed products or third-party products for which we have licensed rights to our patents before the expiration of our patents would have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the costs to us of these proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and other key personnel from our core business and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of these and any other litigation proceedings could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. If we face a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party, we could be liable for significant damages or be prevented from commercializing our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others, including patent and trademark rights. Third parties, typically pharmaceutical companies, may hold patents or patent applications covering compositions, methods of making and uses, covering the composition of matter for some of our drug candidates. Third parties may also hold patents relating to drug delivery technology that may be necessary for development or commercialization of some of our drug candidates. In each of these cases, unless we have or obtain a license agreement, or unless we are able to prove that the third party's patents are invalid or unenforceable, we generally may not commercialize the drug candidates until these third-party patents expire or are declared invalid or unenforceable by the courts. Licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. 51 Table of Contents Others may file suit against us alleging that our marketed products or product candidates infringe patents they hold. Even if resolved in our favor, any patent infringement litigation would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, could prevent us from commercializing our marketed products for a period of time, could require us to pay significant damages and could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the matter is not resolved in our favor, we could be required to pay significant damages and/or be prevented from commercializing the product and our business could be materially adversely affected. In April 2007, we were served with a Complaint filed by Dey, alleging that the manufacture and sale of BROVANA infringes or will induce infringement of a single United States patent for which Dey owns all rights, title and interest. In April 2007, we filed an Answer and Counterclaims to this Complaint seeking to invalidate the originally asserted patent and a second related patent. In May 2007, Dey filed a reply asserting infringement of the second patent. In March 2008, United States Patent 7,348,362 entitled "Bronchodilation b-agonist compositions and Methods" issued and Dey, L.P. is the assignee of the patent. In August 2008, the court granted our Motion to Amend our Answer and Counterclaims to seek declaratory judgment that the '362 patent is invalid and unenforceable and to add Mylan Inc., Dey's parent corporation, as a party. Between December 2008 and January 2009, U.S. patents 7,462,645; 7,465,756; and 7,473,710 all entitled "Bronchodilation b-agonist compositions and Methods" issued. These three patents claim priority to the same parent patent application that issued as the '362 patent. In January 2009, Dey filed a motion to add these three patents to the case, which we did not oppose. Under the current trial scheduling order, the trial will begin no earlier than October 2, 2009. It is too early to make a reasonable assessment as to the likely outcome or impact of this litigation. We are unable to reasonably estimate any possible range of loss or liability related to this lawsuit due to its uncertain resolution. If any of our trademarks or the trademarks we license from our third-party collaborators, or our use of any of these trademarks in connection with products we commercialize, is challenged, we or our third-party collaborators may be forced to rename the affected product or product candidate, which could be costly and time consuming, and would result in the loss of any brand equity associated with the product name. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties If any third-party collaborator is not successful in development or commercialization of our products and product candidates, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have entered into a collaboration agreement with 3M for the manufacturing of XOPENEX HFA. Under this agreement, we license certain proprietary technology from 3M, and it is responsible for manufacturing the MDI formulation of XOPENEX. We have also entered into agreements with Eisai and GSK for development and commercialization of our eszopiclone product, marketed as LUNESTA in the United States. Under the Eisai agreement, Eisai will be responsible for completing remaining clinical trials necessary for obtaining marketing approval from the Japanese regulatory authorities and, contingent on regulatory approval, commercialization of the product in Japan. Under the GSK agreement, GSK is responsible for the development and commercialization of the product for all markets worldwide, excluding the United States, Canada, Mexico and Japan. In addition, we have entered into a license agreement with Bial for the development and commercialization in the United States and Canada of STEDESA. Under this agreement, Bial is responsible for certain development activities and prosecuting all patents and patent applications it licensed to us. We have also entered into a distribution and development agreement with Nycomed for the development, commercialization and distribution in the United States, its territories and possessions of Nycomed's ciclesonide compound, and certain products incorporating such compound, including ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol and OMNARIS Nasal Spray. Under this agreement, Nycomed is responsible for prosecuting all 52 Table of Contents patents and patent applications with respect to these products. Most recently, we entered into two license and development agreements with Arrow for the development and commercialization of Arrow's Levalbuterol/ipratropium Product candidate and for the development and commercialization of a ciclesonide standalone product and a ciclesonide/arformoterol combination product utilizing Arrow's know-how and intellectual property rights related to stable sterile suspension formulations and other technology. If 3M, Eisai, GSK, Bial, Nycomed, Arrow or any future development or commercialization collaborator does not devote sufficient time and resources to its collaboration arrangement with us, breaches or terminates its agreement with us, fails to perform its obligations to us in a timely manner, is unsuccessful in its development and/or commercialization efforts, or is unsuccessful in obtaining, maintaining or enforcing patents, and/or protecting trade secrets we license to or from such collaborator, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if regulatory approval or commercialization of any product candidate under development by, or in collaboration with, a partner is delayed or limited, we may not realize, or may be delayed in realizing, the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement. For example, in October 2008, the CHMP of the EMEA issued an opinion recommending the EC grant a marketing authorization for LUNIVIA brand eszopiclone in the EU for the treatment of insomnia; however, the opinion did not include a new active substance designation, which we believe would enable more favorable commercialization of the product in the EU. In February 2009, the CHMP re-confirmed its initial opinion recommending LUNIVIA marketing approval in Europe, but without new active substance status. We intend to continue to pursue with the EC the circumstances surrounding LUNIVIA and our marketing application, and we anticipate the EC will be making a final decision in the near future. The royalties and other payments we receive under licensing arrangements could be delayed, reduced or terminated if our licensing partners terminate, or fail to perform their obligations under, their agreements with us, or if our licensing partners are unsuccessful in their sales efforts. We have entered into licensing arrangements pursuant to which we license patents to pharmaceutical companies and our revenues under these licensing arrangements consist primarily of milestone payments, royalties on sales of products and supply payments. Payments and royalties under these arrangements depend in large part on the efforts of our licensing partners in countries where we hold patents, including development and sales efforts and enforcement of patents, which we cannot control. If any of our licensing partners does not devote sufficient time and resources to its licensing arrangement with us or focuses its efforts in countries where we do not hold patents, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, our revenues under these arrangements may be less than anticipated and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If any of our licensing partners was to breach or terminate its agreement with us or fail to perform its obligations to us in a timely manner, the royalties and other payments we receive under the licensing agreement could decrease or cease. If we are unable or fail to perform, or are in breach of our obligations under a licensing agreement, the royalties and other payments and benefits to which we are otherwise entitled under the agreement could be reduced or eliminated. Any delay or termination of this type could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we may lose technology rights and milestone, royalty or supply payments from licensing partners and/or revenues from product sales, if any, could be delayed, reduced or terminated. We rely on third-party manufacturers, and this reliance could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers' demands. We currently operate a manufacturing plant that we believe can meet our commercial requirements of the API for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, XOPENEX HFA and BROVANA, 53 Table of Contents partially fulfill our commercial requirements of the API for LUNESTA, and support production of our internally developed product candidates in amounts needed for our clinical trials. However, we do not have facilities for manufacturing pharmaceutical dosage forms or finished drug products. Developing and obtaining this capability would be time consuming and expensive. Unless and until we develop this capability, we will rely substantially, and in some cases, entirely, on third-party manufacturers. Catalent and Holopack are currently our only finished goods manufacturers of our XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, and Catalent is currently the sole finished goods manufacturer of BROVANA. Patheon is the sole manufacturer of LUNESTA, although we plan to enter into an agreement with a second manufacturer of LUNESTA during the first half of 2009, and 3M is the sole manufacturer and supplier of XOPENEX HFA. Certain components of XOPENEX HFA are available from only a single source. If Catalent, Holopack, Patheon, 3M, or any of our sole-source component suppliers experiences delays or difficulties in producing, packaging or delivering XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, XOPENEX HFA or its components, BROVANA or LUNESTA, as the case may be, we could be unable to meet our customers' demands for such products, which could lead to lost sales, customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation. Moreover, if we experience delays or difficulties meeting our supply obligations to GSK and Eisai as a result of our third-party suppliers and manufacturers not meeting our demands, or for any other reason, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of our supply and/or licensing arrangements with these parties and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are required to change manufacturers, we will be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines, including FDA guidelines. The delays associated with the verification of a new manufacturer for XOPENEX Inhalation Solution, XOPENEX HFA or its components, BROVANA or LUNESTA could adversely affect our ability to produce such products in a timely manner or within budget. Pursuant to our distribution, development and commercialization agreement with Nycomed, Nycomed will be responsible for exclusively manufacturing and supplying us with our requirements of ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol and OMNARIS Nasal Spray. Furthermore, in the event that we develop and commercialize any additional products containing the ciclesonide compound, including OMNARIS HFA Nasal Spray, we will rely on Nycomed and/or other third parties for the manufacture and supply of such products. If the manufacturer of a ciclesonide product experiences delays or difficulties in producing, packaging or delivering such product, we could be unable to meet our customers' demands for the product, which could lead to lost sales, customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation. We license certain proprietary technology required to manufacture our XOPENEX HFA from 3M. If 3M is unable or unwilling to fulfill its obligations to us under our agreement, we may be unable to manufacture XOPENEX HFA on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. Our other current contract manufacturers, as well as any future contract manufacturers, may also independently own technology related to manufacturing of our products. If so, we would be heavily dependent on such manufacturer and such manufacturer could require us to obtain a license in order to have another party manufacture our products. Risks Related to Growth of Our Business If we fail to acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products, our ability to grow will be impaired. We are currently commercializing six products. In addition, OMNARIS HFA Nasal Spray is in Phase III clinical development and we plan to file an NDA for STEDESA in the first half of 2009. However, all of our other product candidates are in the early stages of development. In order to increase the likelihood that we will be able to successfully develop and/or commercialize additional drugs, we intend to acquire and develop additional product candidates and/or approved products. The 54 Table of Contents success of this growth strategy depends upon our ability to correctly establish criteria for such acquisitions and successfully identify, select and acquire product candidates and/or products that meet such criteria. We will be required to integrate any acquired product candidates, including the product candidates we licensed from Bial and Arrow and product candidates we are developing pursuant to our agreement with Nycomed, into our research and development operations and any acquired products, including ALVESCO HFA Inhalation Aerosol and OMNARIS Nasal Spray, into our sales and marketing operations. Managing the development and/or commercialization of a new product involves numerous other financial and operational risks, including difficulties allocating resources between existing and acquired assets and attracting and retaining qualified employees to develop and/or sell the product. Any product candidate we acquire may require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive preclinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, we cannot be certain that any products that we develop or acquire will be: •manufactured or produced economically; •successfully commercialized or reimbursed at rates sufficient for us to achieve or maintain profitability with respect to such products; •complementary to our existing product portfolio; or •widely accepted in the marketplace. Proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We may undertake strategic acquisitions in the future and any difficulties from integrating acquired businesses, products and product candidates could adversely affect our stock price, business operations, financial condition or results from operations. We may acquire additional businesses, products or product candidates that complement or augment our existing business. We have limited acquisition experience and may not be able to integrate any acquired business, product or product candidate successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Integrating any newly acquired business, product or product candidate could be expensive and time-consuming. Integration efforts often place a significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult or expensive than we predict. The diversion of our management's attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with any future acquisitions we may consummate could result in the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, collaborators, employees and others with whom we have business dealings. Moreover, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing to acquire any businesses, products or product candidates, which may result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. As part of our efforts to acquire businesses, products and product candidates or to enter into other significant transactions, we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately 55 Table of Contents may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result, might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions we have consummated or may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks or other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We will also need to make certain assumptions regarding acquired product candidates, including, among other things, development costs, the likelihood of receiving regulatory approval and the market for such product candidates. Our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. In addition, we will likely experience significant charges to earnings in connection with our efforts, if any, to consummate acquisitions. These charges may include fees and expenses for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other advisers in connection with our efforts, and may be incurred whether or not an acquisition is consummated. Even if our efforts are successful, we may incur as part of a transaction substantial charges for closure costs associated with elimination of duplicate operations and facilities and acquired IPR&D charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. Development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated if we are unable to enter into collaboration agreements in the future or if any future collaboration agreement is subject to lengthy government review. Development and commercialization of some of our product candidates may depend on our ability to enter into additional collaboration agreements with pharmaceutical companies to fund all or part of the costs of development and commercialization of these product candidates. We may not be able to enter into collaboration agreements and the terms of the collaboration agreements, if any, may not be favorable to us. Inability to enter into collaboration agreements could delay or preclude development, manufacture and/or commercialization of some of our drugs and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because: •we may be required to expend additional funds to advance the drugs to commercialization; •revenue from product sales could be delayed; or •we may elect not to commercialize the drugs. We are required to file a notice under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, or the HSR Act, for certain agreements containing exclusive license grants and to delay the effectiveness of any such exclusive license until expiration or earlier termination of the notice and waiting period under the HSR Act. If expiration or termination of the notice and waiting period under the HSR Act is delayed because of lengthy government review, or if the Federal Trade Commission or Department of Justice successfully challenges such a license, development and commercialization could be delayed or precluded and our business could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 