Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company's business faces many risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or risks that the Company currently deems immaterial or unlikely. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occurs, the Company's financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of the Company's common stock could decline. This discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K Annual Report. All of our forward-looking statements are effected by the risk factors discussed in this item and this discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the discussion of forward-looking statements which appears at the beginning of this report. This discussion of risk factors is not exhaustive, and we do not undertake to revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstanc es that occur after the date the statement is made. We operate in an extremely competitive industry. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are and may be able to compete more effectively. Our Distribution and Retail segments compete with, among others, regional and national grocery distributors, independently owned retail grocery stores, large chain stores that have integrated wholesale and retail operations, mass merchandisers, limited assortment stores and wholesale membership clubs, some of whom have greater resources than we do. This competition may result in reduced profit margins and other harmful effects on us and the independent retail grocery stores that we supply. Ongoing industry consolidation could result in our loss of customers that we currently supply and could confront our retail operations with competition from larger and better-capitalized chains in existing or new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in this environment. Unfavorable changes in government regulation could harm our business. Like other companies that sell food, our stores are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and administrative practices affecting our business. We must comply with numerous provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, facilities inspection, food labeling, equal employment opportunity, minimum wage, and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic beverages. - -10- We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations, or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state, local, and foreign regulatory requirements would have on our future business. They could, however, require that we recall or discontinue sale of certain products, make substantial changes to our facilities or operations, or otherwise result in substantial increases in operating expense. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Safety concerns regarding our products could harm our business. Concerns regarding the safety of food products sold by us could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for some or all of their food needs, even if the basis for concern is outside of our control. Any loss of confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to re-establish. Any real or perceived issue regarding the safety of any food items sold by us, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to implement our strategy of growth through acquisitions. Part of our growth strategy involves selected acquisitions of additional retail grocery stores or grocery store chains. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement this part of our growth strategy or that it will be ultimately successful. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, complete acquisitions or obtain the necessary financing. Because we operate in the Distribution business, future acquisitions of retail grocery stores could result in us competing with our independent grocery store customers and could have adverse effects on existing business relationships with our distribution customers. The success of our retail store acquisitions will depend, in part, on whether we obtain the business synergies and related cost savings that we anticipated in connection with these transactions and any future acquisitions. Our business is subject to risks from regional economic conditions and other factors in our markets. Our business is dependent upon the sale of groceries and related products to our customers. Most of our sales are to customers located in Michigan and Ohio. Adverse economic conditions or reduction in the populations of or the loss of purchasing power by residents in those areas could reduce the amount of groceries purchased, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Further adverse developments in the automotive and auto supply industries in Michigan could have an additional adverse affect on purchasing power of our customers and prospective customers in some markets served by our retail stores and those of our distribution customers. Many of our retail grocery stores, as well as stores operated by our independent grocery store customers, are located in areas of northern Michigan that are heavily dependent upon tourism. Unseasonable weather conditions and higher fuel costs in these areas could result in decreased sales by our retail grocery stores and decreased sales to our distribution customers, adversely affecting our business. A substantial number of our associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain of our associates, particularly those in our Distribution segment, are covered by collective bargaining agreements, most of which expire at various times over the course of the next four years. In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health care, pension and employee benefit costs, among other issues, will continue to be important topics of negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions. This could significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations. - -11- Post-retirement obligations could increase future expenses. We contribute to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements. These plans are not administered by or in any way controlled by us and we have relatively little control over the level of contributions we are required to make to these plans. We believe a number of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. As a result, we expect that contributions to these plans may increase. Additionally, the benefit levels and related issues will continue to create collective bargaining challenges. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur a withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan's underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend upon the outcom e of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, governmental regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plan, and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit a market, among other factors. We maintain defined benefit retirement plans for substantially all of our employees that do not participate in multi-employer pension plans. Expenses associated with the defined benefit plans may significantly increase with changes to actuarial assumptions or investment returns on plan assets that are less favorable than projected. Risks associated with insurance plan claims. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers' compensation, automobile and general liability, property insurance, director and officers' liability insurance, and employee health care benefits. The liabilities that have been recorded for these claims represent our best estimate, using generally accepted actuarial reserving methods, of the ultimate obligations for reported claims plus those incurred but not reported for all claims incurred through March 25, 2006. Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. Changes in legal trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, and changes in discount rates could all affect ultimate settlements of claims. Changes in vendor promotions or allowances, including the way vendors target their promotional spending, and our ability to effectively manage these programs could significantly impact our margins and profitability. We cooperatively engage in a variety of promotional programs with our vendors. As the parties assess the results of specific promotions and plan for future promotions, the nature of these programs and the allocation of dollars among them change over time. We carefully manage these programs in order to maintain or improve margins while at the same time increasing sales for us and for the vendors. A reduction in overall promotional spending, or a shift in promotional spending away from certain types of promotions that we and our distribution customers have historically utilized, could have a significant impact on profitability. Unavailability of our data systems could harm our business. We have large, complex information technology systems that are important to our business operations. Although we have installed security programs and procedures, security could be compromised and systems disruptions could occur. This could result in a loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. - -12- 