Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occurs, our financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. This discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All of our forward-looking statements are affected by the risk factors discussed in this item and this discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the discussion of forward-looking statements which appears at the beginning of this report. We operate in an extremely competitive industry. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are and may be able to compete more effectively. The Military segment faces competition from large national and regional food distributors as well as smaller distributors. Due to the narrow margins in the military food distribution industry, it is of critical importance for distributors to achieve economies of scale, which are typically a function of the density or concentration of military bases in the geographic markets a distributor serves and a distributor’s share of that market. As a result, no single distributor in this industry, by itself, has a nationwide presence. Our Food Distribution and Retail segments compete with, among others, regional and national grocery distributors, independently owned retail grocery stores, large chain stores that have integrated wholesale and retail operations, mass merchandisers, limited assortment stores and wholesale membership clubs, many of whom have greater resources than we do. Some of our distribution and retail competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial resources and geographic scope, lower merchandise acquisition costs and lower operating expenses than we do, intensifying competition at the wholesale and retail levels. The effects of industry consolidation and the expansion of alternative store formats have resulted in, and continue to result in, market share losses for traditional grocery stores. These trends have produced even stronger competition for our retail business and for the independent customers of our food distribution business. To the extent our independent customers are acquired by our competitors or are not successful in competing with other retail chains and non-traditional competitors, sales by our food distribution business will be affected. If we fail to implement strategies to respond effectively to these competitive pressures, our operating results could be adversely affected by price reductions, decreased sales or margins, or loss of market share. This competition may result in reduced profit margins and other harmful effects on us and the Food Distribution customers that we supply. Ongoing industry consolidation could result in our loss of customers that we currently supply and could confront our retail operations with competition from larger and better-capitalized chains in existing or new markets. We may not be able to compete successfully in this environment. Our businesses could be negatively affected if we fail to retain existing customers or attract significant numbers of new customers. Growing and increasing the profitability of our distribution businesses is dependent in large measure upon our ability to retain existing customers and capture additional distribution customers through our existing -13- network of distribution centers, enabling us to more effectively utilize the fixed assets in those businesses. Our ability to achieve these goals is dependent, in part, upon our ability to continue to provide a high level of customer service, offer competitive products at low prices, maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency, particularly in the process of integrating new customers into our distribution system, and offer marketing, merchandising and ancillary services that provide value to our independent customers. If we are unable to execute these tasks effectively, we may not be able to attract significant numbers of new customers, and attrition among our existing customer base could increase, either or both of which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Growing and increasing the profitability of our retail business is dependent upon increasing our market share in the communities where our retail stores are located. We plan to invest in redesigning some of our retail stores into other formats in order to attract new customers and increase our market share. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract significant numbers of new retail customers. Government regulation could harm our business. Our business is subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations including, but not limited to, employment and wage laws and regulations, regulations governing the sale of pharmaceuticals, alcohol and tobacco, minimum wage requirements, working condition requirements, public accessibility requirements, citizenship requirements, environmental regulation, and other laws and regulations. A violation or change of these laws could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Like other companies that sell food and drugs, our stores are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and administrative practices affecting our business. We must comply with numerous provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, facilities inspection, food labeling, and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, tobacco and alcoholic beverages. We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations, or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state, local, and foreign regulatory requirements will have on our future business. They could, however, require that we recall or discontinue sale of certain products, make substantial changes to our facilities or operations, or otherwise result in substantial increases in operating expense. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Military segment operations are dependent upon domestic and international military distribution, and a change in the military commissary system, or level of governmental funding, could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Because our Military segment sells and distributes grocery products to military commissaries and exchanges in the United States and overseas, any material changes in the commissary system, the level of governmental funding to DeCA, military staffing levels, or the locations of bases may have a corresponding impact on the sales and operating performance of this segment. These changes could include privatization of some or all of the military commissary system, relocation or consolidation of commissaries and exchanges, base closings, troop redeployments or consolidations in the geographic areas containing commissaries and exchanges served by us, or a reduction in the number of persons having access to the commissaries and exchanges. Mandated reductions in the government expenditures, including those imposed as a result of sequestration, may impact the level of funding to DeCA and could have a material impact on our operations. We are subject to state and federal environmental regulations. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may, as the owner or operator of our locations, be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at these current or our former -14- locations, whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presences of such contamination. The failure to properly remediate such contamination may subject us to liability to third parties and may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease such property or to borrow money using such property as collateral. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storage tanks may require significant capital expenditures and increased operating and maintenance costs. The remediation costs and other costs required to clean up or treat contaminated sites could be substantial. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at existing or acquired locations. We cannot assure you that we have identified all environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; that material environmental conditions not known to us do not exist; that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose material environmental liability on us; or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our locations. In addition, failure to comply with any environmental laws, ordinances or regulations or an increase in regulations could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our results. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, store closures, leases, income taxes and share-based payments, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported earnings without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations. Safety concerns regarding our products could harm our business. It is sometimes necessary for us to recall unsafe, contaminated or defective products. Recall costs can be material and we might not be able to recover costs from our suppliers. Concerns regarding the safety of food products sold by us could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for some or all of their food needs, even if the basis for concern is outside of our control. Any loss of confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to overcome. Any real or perceived issue regarding the safety of any food or drug items sold by us, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to implement our strategy of growth through acquisitions. Part of our growth strategy involves selected acquisitions of additional retail grocery stores, grocery store chains or distribution facilities. We may not be able to implement this part of our growth strategy or ultimately be successful. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, complete acquisitions or obtain the necessary financing. Because we operate in the Food Distribution business, future acquisitions of retail grocery stores could result in us competing with our independent grocery store customers and could have adverse effects on existing business relationships with our Food Distribution customers. The success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on whether we achieve the business synergies and related cost savings that we anticipated in connection with these transactions and any future acquisitions. Accordingly, we may not achieve expected results and long-term business goals. -15- Our business is subject to risks from regional economic conditions, fuel prices, and other factors in our markets. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. In recent years, the United States has experienced volatility in the economy and financial markets due to uncertainties related to energy prices, availability of credit, difficulties in the banking and financial services sector, the decline in the housing market, diminished market liquidity, falling consumer confidence and high unemployment rates. These adverse economic conditions in our markets, potential reduction in the populations in our markets and the loss of purchasing power by residents in our markets could reduce the amount and mix of groceries purchased, could cause consumers to trade down to less expensive mix of products or to trade down to discounters, all of which may affect our revenues and profitability. Rising gasoline prices may affect consumer behavior and retail grocery prices. The impact of rising petroleum prices may prompt consumers to make different choices in how and where they shop due to the high price of gasoline. Additionally, the impact of higher fuel costs is passed through by manufacturers and distributors in the prices of goods and services provided, again potentially affecting consumer buying decisions. This could have adverse impacts on retail store traffic, basket size and overall spending at both our corporate and independent retail stores. In addition, many of our retail grocery stores, as well as stores operated by our Food Distribution customers are located in areas that are heavily dependent upon tourism. Unseasonable weather conditions and the economic conditions discussed above may decrease tourism activity and could result in decreased sales by our retail grocery stores and decreased sales to our Food Distribution customers, adversely affecting our business. Economic downturns and uncertainty have adversely affected overall demand and intensified price competition, and have caused consumers to “trade down” by purchasing lower margin items and to make fewer purchases in traditional supermarket channels. Continued negative economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, volatility in fuel and energy costs, food price inflation or deflation, employment trends in our markets and labor costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters affecting consumer spending could cause consumers to continue shifting even more of their spending to lower-priced products and competitors. The continued general reductions in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability. Disruptions to worldwide financial and credit markets could potentially reduce the availability of liquidity and credit generally necessary to fund a continuation and expansion of global economic activity. A shortage of liquidity and credit in certain markets has the potential to lead to worldwide economic difficulties that could be prolonged. A general slowdown in the economic activity caused by an extended period of economic uncertainty could adversely affect our businesses. Difficult financial and economic conditions could also adversely affect our customers’ ability to meet the terms of sale or our suppliers’ ability to fully perform their commitments to us. Macroeconomic and geopolitical events may adversely affect our customers, access to products, or lead to general cost increases which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The impact of events in foreign countries which could result in increased political instability and social unrest and the economic ramifications of significant budget deficits in the United States and changes in policy attributable to them at both the federal and state levels could adversely affect our businesses and customers. Adverse economic or geopolitical events could potentially reduce our access to or increase prices associated with products sourced abroad. Such adverse events could lead to significant increases in the price of the products we procure, fuel and other supplies used in our business, utilities, or taxes that cannot be fully recovered through price increases. In addition, disposable consumer income could be affected by these events, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. -16- Inflation and deflation may adversely affect our operating results. In this uncertain economy, it is difficult to forecast whether fiscal 2014 will be a period of inflation or deflation. Food deflation could reduce sales growth and earnings, while food inflation, combined with reduced consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins. If we experience significant inflation or deflation, especially in the context of continued lower consumer spending, then our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Substantial operating losses may occur if the customers to whom we extend credit or for whom we guarantee loan or lease obligations fail to repay us. In the ordinary course of business, we extend credit, including loans, to our Food Distribution customers, and provide financial assistance to some customers by guaranteeing their loan or lease obligations. We also lease store sites for sublease to independent retailers. Generally, our loans and other financial accommodations are extended to small businesses that are unrelated and may have limited access to conventional financing. As of December 28, 2013, we had loans, net of reserves, of $30.7 million outstanding to 52 of our Food Distribution customers and had guaranteed outstanding lease obligations of Food Distribution customers totaling $1.0 million. In the normal course of business, we also sublease retail properties and assign retail property leases to third parties. As of December 28, 2013, the present value of our maximum contingent liability exposure, with respect to subleases and assigned leases was $17.7 million and $7.9 million, respectively. While we seek to obtain security interest and other credit support in connection with the financial accommodations we extend, such collateral may not be sufficient to cover our exposure. Greater than expected losses from existing or future credit extensions, loans, guarantee commitments or sublease arrangements could negatively and potentially materially impact our operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to retain our key management personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of senior management. The loss of any key member of our management team may prevent us from implementing our business plans in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that successors of comparable ability will be identified and appointed and that our business will not be adversely affected. A number of our Food Distribution segment associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 57% of our warehouse associates in our Food Distribution business segment are covered by collective bargaining agreements which expire between March 2014 and September 2016. We expect that rising health care, pension and other employee benefit costs, among other issues, will continue to be important topics of negotiation with the labor unions. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate an acceptable contract with the labor unions. This could significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations. Unions may attempt to organize additional employees. While we believe that relations with our employees are good, we may continue to see additional union organizing campaigns. The potential for unionization could increase as any new related legislation regulations are passed. We respect our employees’ right to unionize or not to unionize. However, the unionization of a significant portion of our workforce could increase our overall costs at the affected locations and adversely affect our flexibility to run our business in the most efficient manner to remain competitive or acquire new business and could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our labor costs or otherwise restricting our ability to maximize the efficiency of our operations. -17- Costs related to multi-employer pension plans and other postretirement plans could increase. We contribute to the Central States Southeast and Southwest Pension Fund (“Plan”), a multiemployer pension plan. Our participation in this Plan results from obligations contained in collective bargaining agreements with Teamsters locals 406 and 908. We do not administer nor control this Plan, and we have relatively little control over the level of contributions we are required to make. Currently, this Plan is underfunded; and as a result, contributions are scheduled to increase. Additionally, we expect that contributions to this Plan will be subject to further increases. Benefit levels and related issues will continue to create collective bargaining challenges. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to this Plan will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, the actions taken by the trustees who manage the Plan, governmental regulations, actual return on investment of Plan assets, the continued viability and contributions of other contributing employers, and the potential payment of withdrawal liability should we choose to exit a market, among other factors. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur withdrawal liability to the plan if it is underfunded. The assessed withdrawal liablity represents the portion of the plan’s underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. Withdrawal liability may be incurred under a variety of circumstances, including selling, closing or substantially reducing employment at a facility. Withdrawal liability could be material, and potential exposure to withdrawal liability may influence business decisions and could cause the company to forgo business opportunities. We are currently unable to reasonably estimate such liability. Any adjustment for withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists and can be reasonably estimated. We maintain defined benefit retirement plans for certain of our employees that do not participate in multi-employer pension plans. These plans are frozen. Expenses associated with the defined benefit plans may significantly increase due to changes to actuarial assumptions or investment returns on plan assets that are less favorable than projected. In addition, changes in our funding status could adversely affect our financial position. Risks associated with insurance plan claims could increase future expenses. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property insurance, director and officers’ liability insurance, and employee health care benefits. The liabilities that have been recorded for these claims represent our best estimate, using generally accepted actuarial reserving methods, of the ultimate obligations for reported claims plus those incurred but not reported for all claims incurred through December 28, 2013. Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. Changes in legal trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, and changes in discount rates could all affect the level of reserves required and could cause future expense to maintain reserves at appropriate levels. Costs related to associate healthcare benefits are expected to continue to increase. We provide health benefits for a large number of associates. Our costs to provide such benefits continue to increase annually and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform are likely to result in significant changes to the U.S. healthcare system. At this time we are not able to determine the impact that healthcare reform will have on the Company-sponsored healthcare plans. In addition, we participate in various multi-employer health plans for our union associates, and we are required to make contributions to these plans in amounts established under collective bargaining agreements. The cost of providing benefits through such plans has escalated rapidly in recent years. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer plans will depend upon many factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to control the costs of providing healthcare to associates, we may experience increased operating costs, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. -18- Changes in vendor promotions or allowances, including the way vendors target their promotional spending, and our ability to effectively manage these programs could significantly impact our margins and profitability. We cooperatively engage in a variety of promotional programs with our vendors. As the parties assess the results of specific promotions and plan for future promotions, the nature of these programs and the allocation of dollars among them changes over time. We manage these programs to maintain or improve margins while at the same time increasing sales for us and for the vendors. A reduction in overall promotional spending or a shift in promotional spending away from certain types of promotions that we and our distribution customers have historically utilized could have a significant impact on profitability. We depend upon vendors to supply us with quality merchandise at the right time and at the right price. We depend heavily on our ability to purchase merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We have no assurances of continued supply, pricing, or access to new products and any vendor could at any time change the terms upon which it sells to us or discontinue selling to us. Sales demands may lead to insufficient in-stock positions of our merchandise. Significant changes in our ability to obtain adequate product supplies due to weather, food contamination, regulatory actions, labor supply, or product vendor defaults or disputes that limit our ability to procure products for sale to customers could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Threats to security or the occurrence of a health pandemic could harm our business. Our business could be severely impacted by wartime activities, threats or acts of terrorism or a widespread health pandemic. Any of these events could adversely impact our business by disrupting delivery of products to our corporate stores or our independent retail customers, by affecting our ability to appropriately staff our stores and by causing customers to avoid public places. We have large, complex information technology systems that are important to our business operations. Although we have implemented security programs and disaster recovery facilities and procedures, security could be compromised and systems disruptions, data theft or other criminal activity could occur. This could result in a loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur significant costs to restore our systems or to reimburse third parties for damages. To date, we have not had any material breaches of security. Severe weather and natural disasters could harm our business. Severe weather conditions and natural disasters, whether a result of climate change or otherwise, could affect the suppliers from whom we purchase products and could cause disruptions in our operations. Unseasonably adverse climatic conditions that impact growing conditions and the crops of food producers may adversely affect the availability or cost of certain products. Damage to our facilities could harm our business. A majority of the product we supply to our retail stores, Military and Food Distribution customers flows through our distribution centers. While we believe we have adopted commercially reasonable precautions, insurance programs, and contingency plans, the destruction of, or substantial damage to, our distribution centers due to natural disaster, severe weather conditions, accident, terrorism, or other causes could substantially compromise our ability to distribute products to our retail stores, Military and Food Distribution customers. This could result in a loss of sales, profits and asset value. -19- Impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to test annually goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, including the goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, to determine if impairment has occurred. Additionally, interim reviews must be performed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the testing performed indicates that impairment has occurred, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. The testing of goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment requires management to make significant estimates about our future performance and cash flows, as well as other assumptions. These estimates can be affected by numerous factors, including potential changes in economic, industry or market conditions, changes in business operations, changes in competition or changes in our stock price and market capitalization. Changes in these factors, or changes in actual performance compared with estimates of our future performance, may affect the fair value of goodwill or other intangible assets, which may result in an impairment charge. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The combined company may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses of Spartan Stores and Nash-Finch and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. The merger involves the combination of two companies that formerly operated as independent public companies. The combined company is required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of Spartan Stores and Nash-Finch. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully combine the businesses of Spartan Stores and Nash-Finch in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full synergies anticipated to result from the merger; • complexities associated with managing the businesses of the combined company, including the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, distribution channels, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; • integrating the workforces of the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger, including capital expenditures and one-time cash costs to integrate the two companies that may exceed current estimates. The future results of the combined company will suffer if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the completion of the merger. Following the completion of the merger, the size of the business of the combined company increased significantly beyond the former size of either Spartan Stores’ or Nash-Finch’s business. The combined company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of the combined operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the combined company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger. -20- The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the completion of the merger and the integration of Spartan Stores and Nash-Finch. The combined company will incur substantial expenses in connection with the completion of the merger and the integration of Spartan Stores and Nash-Finch. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, revenue management, marketing and benefits. In addition, the businesses of Spartan Stores and Nash-Finch will continue to maintain an administrative presence in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Minneapolis, Minnesota and Norfolk, Virginia. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are many factors beyond their control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. These integration expenses likely will result in the combined company taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the merger, and the amount and exact timing of such charges are uncertain at present. The combined company is more highly leveraged than Spartan Stores formerly was. The increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio of the combined company in comparison to that of Spartan Stores before the merger with Nash-Finch on a historical basis will have the potential effect, among other things, to reduce the flexibility of Spartan Stores to respond to changing business and economic conditions and may increase borrowing costs. Restrictive covenants imposed by our credit facility and other factors could adversely affect our ability to borrow. Our ability to borrow additional funds is governed by the terms of our credit facilities. The credit facilities contain financial and other covenants that, among other things, limit the Company’s ability to draw down the full amount of the facility, incur additional debt outside of the credit facility, create new liens on property, make acquisitions, or pay dividends. These covenants may affect our operating flexibility and may require us to seek the consent of the lenders to certain transactions that we may wish to effect. We are not currently restricted by these covenants. Disruptions in the financial markets have in the past resulted in bank failures. One or more of the participants in our credit facility could become unable to fund our future borrowings when needed. We believe that cash generated from operating activities and available borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to meet anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, and debt service obligations for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels or that we will maintain our ability to borrow under our credit facility. The Company may not be able to refinance its existing debt at similar terms. The financing arrangements that the combined company entered into in connection with the merger contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact SpartanNash’s ability to operate its business. SpartanNash has incurred significant new indebtedness in connection with the merger. The agreements governing the indebtedness of the combined company incured in connection with the merger contain covenants that, among other things, may, under certain circumstances, place limitations on the dollar amounts paid or other actions relating to: • payments in respect of, or redemptions or acquisitions of, debt or equity issued by the combined company or its subsidiaries, including the payment of dividends on SpartanNash common stock; • incurring additional indebtedness; • incurring guarantee obligations; -21- • paying dividends; • creating liens on assets; • entering into sale and leaseback transactions; • making investments, loans or advances; • entering into hedging transactions; • engaging in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of their respective assets; and • engaging in certain transactions with affiliates. Maintaining our reputation and corporate image is essential to our business success. Our success depends on the value and strength of our corporate name and reputation. Our name, reputation and image are integral to our business as well as to the implementation of our strategies for expanding our business. Our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of Internet-based communications. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 