Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company's business faces many risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or risks that the Company currently deems immaterial or unlikely. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occurs, the Company's financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the trading price of the Company's common stock could decline. This discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K Annual Report. All of our forward-looking statements are affected by the risk factors discussed in this item and this discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with the discussion of forward-looking statements which appears at the beginning of this report. This discussion of risk factors is not exhaustive, and we do not undertake to revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstanc es that occur after the date the statement is made. We operate in an extremely competitive industry. Many of our competitors are much larger than we are and may be able to compete more effectively. Our Distribution and Retail segments compete with, among others, regional and national grocery distributors, independently owned retail grocery stores, large chain stores that have integrated wholesale and retail operations, mass merchandisers, limited assortment stores and wholesale membership clubs, some of whom have greater resources than we do. This competition may result in reduced profit margins and other harmful effects on us and the independent retail grocery stores that we supply. Ongoing industry consolidation could result in our loss of customers that we currently supply and could confront our retail operations with competition from larger and better-capitalized chains in existing or new markets. We may not be able to compete successfully in this environment. Government regulation could harm our business. Our business is subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations including, but not limited to, employment and wage laws and regulations, regulations governing the sale of alcohol and tobacco, minimum wage requirements, working condition requirements, public accessibility requirements, citizenship requirements and other laws and regulations. A violation or change of these laws could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - -11- Like other companies that sell food, our stores are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and administrative practices affecting our business. We must comply with numerous provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, facilities inspection, food labeling, and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic beverages. We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations, or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state, local, and foreign regulatory requirements would have on our future business. They could, however, require that we recall or discontinue sale of certain products, make substantial changes to our facilities or operations, or otherwise result in substantial increases in operating expense. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to state and federal environmental regulations. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may, as the owner or operator of our locations, be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of contamination at these or our former locations, whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presences of such contamination. The failure to properly remediate such contamination may subject us to liability to third parties and may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease such property or to borrow money using such property as collateral. Compliance with existing and future environmental laws regulating underground storeage tanks may require significant capital expenditures and increased operating and maintenance costs. The remediation costs and other costs required to clean up or treat contaminated sites could be substantial. In the future, we may incur substantial expenditures for remediation of contamination that has not been discovered at existing or acquired locations. We cannot assure you that we have identified all environmental liabilities at all of our current and former locations; that material environmental conditions not known to us do not exist; that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose material environmental liability on us; or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our locations. In addition, failure to comply with any environmental laws, ordinances or regulations or an increase in regulations could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Safety concerns regarding our products could harm our business. Concerns regarding the safety of food products sold by us could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for some or all of their food needs, even if the basis for concern is outside of our control. Any loss of confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to re-establish. Any real or perceived issue regarding the safety of any food items sold by us, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to implement our strategy of growth through acquisitions. Part of our growth strategy involves selected acquisitions of additional retail grocery stores or grocery store chains. We may not be able to implement this part of our growth strategy or ultimately be successful. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, complete acquisitions or obtain the necessary financing. Because we operate in the Distribution business, future acquisitions of retail grocery stores could result in us competing with our independent grocery store customers and could have adverse effects on existing business relationships with our distribution customers. The success of our retail store acquisitions will depend, in part, on whether we obtain the business synergies and related cost savings that we anticipated in connection with these transactions and any future acquisitions. Accordingly, we may not achieve forecasted results and long-term business goals. - -12- We may not be able to complete the acquisition of Felpausch or, if the transaction is completed, we may be unable to integrate the acquired assets successfully and achieve expected synergies. Our ability to complete the proposed acquisition of the assets of Felpausch depends on the satisfaction of a variety of contractual conditions, not all of which are entirely within the controls of the Company or Felpausch. We have invested significant resources in the acquisition process, but there is no guarantee that the transaction will be completed. Even if the transaction is completed, realization of increased sales and earnings depends on our ability to integrate the acquired assets successfully and to implement our plans and business practices at the acquired locations. Combining the operations of Felpausch with our existing operations may require significant effort and expense. If we are unable to integrate the Felpausch assets, we may not realize the synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects anticipated in connection with this transaction. Our business is subject to risks from regional economic conditions and other factors in our markets. Our business is dependent upon the sale of groceries and related products to our customers. Most of our sales are to customers located in Michigan, Ohio and Indiana. Adverse economic conditions or reduction in the populations of or the loss of purchasing power by residents in those areas could reduce the amount of groceries purchased, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Further adverse developments in the automotive and auto supply industries in Michigan could have an additional adverse affect on purchasing power of our customers and prospective customers in some markets served by our retail stores and those of our distribution customers. Many of our retail grocery stores, as well as stores operated by our independent grocery store customers, are located in areas of northern Michigan that are heavily dependent upon tourism. Unseasonable weather conditions and higher fuel costs in these areas could result in decreased sales by our retail grocery stores and decreased sales to our distribution customers, adversely affecting our business. A new business tax in Michigan may significantly affect our future expenses. The majority of our business operates in Michigan and we are subject to the Michigan Single Business Tax ("MSBT"). The MSBT will be discontinued as of December 31, 2007. The State of Michigan has not yet determined how the revenues generated from this tax will be replaced. We may be unable to retain our key management personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of senior management, including Craig C. Sturken, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of any key member of our management team may prevent us from implementing our business plans in a timely manner. While succession planning is a priority for our board of directors, we cannot assure you that a successor Chief Executive Officer of comparable ability will be identified and appointed or that departures of other executives will not adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain of our associates, particularly those in our distribution business segment, are covered by collective bargaining agreements, most of which expire at various times over the course of the next 4 years. In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health care, pension and employee benefit costs, among other issues, will continue to be important topics of negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions. This could significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control health care and pension costs provided for in the collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations. Post-retirement obligations could increase future expenses. We contribute to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements. These plans are not administered by or in any way controlled by us and we have relatively little control over the level of contributions we are required to make to these plans. We believe a number of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. As a result, we expect that contributions to these plans may increase. Additionally, the benefit levels and related issues will continue to create collective bargaining challenges. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multi-employer pension plans will depend upon the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, governmental - -13- regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plan, and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit a market, among other factors. Under current law, an employer that withdraws or partially withdraws from a multi-employer pension plan may incur a withdrawal liability to the plan, which represents the portion of the plan's underfunding that is allocable to the withdrawing employer under very complex actuarial and allocation rules. Withrawal liabilities may be incurred under a variety of circumstances, including selling or closing a facility. Withdrawal liabilities could be material, and potential exposure to withdrawal liabilities may influence business decisions and could cause the company to forgo business opportunities. We maintain defined benefit retirement plans for substantially all of our employees that do not participate in multi-employer pension plans. Expenses associated with the defined benefit plans may significantly increase with changes to actuarial assumptions or investment returns on plan assets that are less favorable than projected. Risks associated with insurance plan claims could increase future expenses. We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liabilities for workers' compensation, automobile and general liability, property insurance, director and officers' liability insurance, and employee health care benefits. The liabilities that have been recorded for these claims represent our best estimate, using generally accepted actuarial reserving methods, of the ultimate obligations for reported claims plus those incurred but not reported for all claims incurred through March 31, 2007. Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. Changes in legal trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, and changes in discount rates could all affect the level of reserves required and could cause material future expense to maintain reserves at appropriate levels. Changes in vendor promotions or allowances, including the way vendors target their promotional spending, and our ability to effectively manage these programs could significantly impact our margins and profitability. We cooperatively engage in a variety of promotional programs with our vendors. As the parties assess the results of specific promotions and plan for future promotions, the nature of these programs and the allocation of dollars among them change over time. We carefully manage these programs in order to maintain or improve margins while at the same time increasing sales for us and for the vendors. A reduction in overall promotional spending or a shift in promotional spending away from certain types of promotions that we and our distribution customers have historically utilized could have a significant impact on profitability. Unavailability of our information systems could harm our business. We have large, complex information technology systems that are important to our business operations. Although we have installed security programs and disaster recovery facilities and procedures, security could be compromised and systems disruptions could occur. This could result in a loss of sales or profits or cause us to incur significant costs to reimburse third parties for damages. We are subject to restrictive covenants imposed by our credit facility. Our ability to borrow additional funds is governed by the terms of our credit facilities. The credit facilities contain financial and other covenants that, among other things, limit the Company's ability to draw down the full amount of facility, incur additional debt outside of the credit facility, create new liens on property, make acquisitions, or pay dividends. These covenants may affect our operating flexibility and may require us to seek the consent of the lenders to certain transactions that we may wish to carry out. We believe that cash generated from operating activities and available borrowings under our credit facility will be sufficient to meet anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, and debt service obligations for the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate cash flow at or above current levels or that we will maintain our ability to borrow under our credit facility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. - -14- 