Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the events discussed in the following risks were to occur, the Company’s business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial by the Company, may also constrain its business and operations. In either case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. Potential Additional Refunds. As a result of the internal investigation described in Item 1. “Business – Significant Developments,” the Audit Committee determined that, in certain instances, SPP did not charge its customers in accordance with applicable contracts. As a result, the Company intends to provide aggregate refunds to customers of approximately $3.7 million, covering all periods since the Company’s acquisition of SPP in September 2000, plus interest at the applicable federal rate (which ranged from 4% to 9%) during the period covered by the investigation. However, there can be no assurance that the Company or a third-party, including a governmental entity, will not assert that additional refunds are owed to these customers. Potential Enforcement Actions. The Company could be the subject of future government investigations, enforcement actions or penalties. As previously disclosed, the Company is currently the subject of informal inquiries by both the SEC and the U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee with respect to those matters that were the subject of the Audit Committee’s internal investigation. Both the Audit Committee and the Company have cooperated and intend to continue to cooperate fully with these government entities regarding such inquiries. However, there can be no assurance that the SEC, the U.S. Attorney, or any other governmental authority (including, without limitation, the governmental entities with which the Company entered into contractual relationships) will not take any action that would adversely affect the Company as a result of the matters investigated by the Audit Committee or the restatement of the Company’s financial results. Such actions could result in criminal, civil or other penalties, including the imposition of fines, the termination of existing contracts or debarment from pursuing future business in certain jurisdictions. Management of the Company is unable to predict the effect that any such actions may have on its business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. Potential Shareholder Litigation. The Company or its directors or officers could be named as defendants in shareholder litigation. As a result of the matters investigated by the Audit Committee or the restatement of the Company’s financial statements, the Company or its current or former directors or officers could be named defendants in shareholder class action or shareholder derivative lawsuits. Management of the Company is unable to predict the effect that such lawsuits may have on its business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. Maintenance of Effective Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Under rules of the SEC, promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company is required to furnish, in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year, a report by management on its internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31 of the applicable fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not its internal control over financial reporting is effective. In the course of the Company’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, it identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. These material weaknesses are described in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” of this report. Although the Company has taken, and continues to take, numerous steps to remediate these material weaknesses, it cannot assure you that this remediation has been or will be successful or that additional deficiencies or weaknesses in its controls and procedures will not be identified in the future. The material weaknesses already identified, as well as any other weaknesses or deficiencies that might be identified in the future, could harm the Company’s business and operating results, and could result in adverse publicity and a loss in investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports. Potential Future Restatements. Any future restatement of the Company’s financial statements may adversely affect the trading price of its common shares. As a result of the internal investigation, the Company has restated previously filed financial results for the fiscal years 2001 through 2004 and the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2005. The Company believes such restatements are presented in accordance with the requirements of generally accepted accounting principles. However, such restatements do not prevent future changes or adjustments, including additional restatements. If there are future restatements of the Company’s financial statements, such restatements may adversely affect the trading price of the Company’s common shares. Dependence on Client Contracts. The Company’s operating revenue is derived almost exclusively from contracts with state, county and local governmental agencies. Generally, contracts may be terminated by the governmental agency at will and without cause upon proper notice (typically between 90 and 120 days). Governmental agencies may be subject to political influences that could lead to termination of a contract through no fault of the Company. Although the Company generally attempts to renew or renegotiate contracts at or prior to their termination, contracts that are put out for bid are subject to intense competition. In addition, at present the Company does not know what, if any, effect the investigation discussed herein may have on its efforts to retain or obtain contracts. As a result, the Company’s portfolio of contracts is subject to change. The changes in the Company’s portfolio of contracts are largely unpredictable, which creates uncertainties about the amount of its total revenues from period to period. The Company must engage in competitive bidding for new business to replace contracts that expire or are terminated. The Company, therefore, has no assurance that it will be able to replace contracts that expire or are terminated or are not renewed on favorable terms or otherwise. The non- 11 Table of Contents renewal or termination of any of the Company’s contracts with governmental agencies could materially affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Dependence on Government Funding. The Company’s cash flow is subject to the receipt of sufficient funding of, and timely payment by, the government entities with which it contracts. Economic circumstances at the national, state or local level could affect government entity budgets, which could result in insufficient funding, increased pricing pressure or termination of contracts. If a government entity does not receive sufficient funding to cover its obligations under a healthcare services contract, the contract may be terminated, payment for the Company’s services could be delayed or not occur. The termination of contracts, a significant delay in payment or non-payment could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or cash flows. Privatization of Government Services and Correctional Population. The Company’s future revenue growth will depend in part on continued privatization by state, county and local governmental agencies of healthcare services for correctional facilities. The Company believes that approximately $35 million in annualized correctional healthcare contract revenues were newly privatized in 2005 by governmental agencies either for the first time or as a result of the expansion of existing contracted services to encompass additional or expanded services. There can be no assurance that this market will continue to grow at historical rates or at all, or that existing contracts will continue to be made available to the private sector. Revenue growth could also be adversely affected by material decreases in the inmate population of correctional facilities. Any of these results could cause the Company’s revenue to decline and harm its business and operating results. Negative Publicity. Negative publicity regarding the provision of correctional healthcare services by for-profit companies, including the Company, could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or business. Privatization of healthcare services for correctional facilities may encounter resistance from groups or constituencies that believe that healthcare services to correctional facilities should only be provided by governmental agencies. Negative publicity regarding the privatization of correctional healthcare services may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices that further increase the Company’s costs of doing business and adversely affect its results of operations by: • requiring the Company to change its services; • placing pressure on certain of the Company’s clients either to force such clients to change the way they do business with the Company or sever their relationship with the Company altogether; • increasing the regulatory burdens under which it operates; or • adversely affecting its ability to market its services. Moreover, negative publicity relating to the Company in particular also may adversely affect its ability to renew or maintain existing contracts or to obtain new contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. Compliance with Government Regulations. Failure to comply with governmental regulations and/or orders of judicial authorities could result in material penalties or non-renewal or termination of the Company’s contracts to manage correctional and detention facilities. The industry in which the Company operates is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations, including educational, health care, pharmacy and safety regulations and judicial orders, decrees and judgments. Some of the regulations are unique to the Company’s industry, and the combination of regulations it faces is unique. Generally, providers of healthcare and pharmaceutical services to correctional facilities must be able to detail their readiness to, and must comply with, a variety of applicable state and local regulations and court orders. The Company’s contracts typically include reporting requirements, supervision and on-site monitoring by representatives of the contracting governmental agencies or courts. The Company may not always successfully comply with these regulations or court orders, and failure to comply can result in material penalties, sanctions or non-renewal or termination of contracts, which could have a materially adverse affect on its business and results of operation. For a discussion of certain specific governmental regulations, see Item 1. “Business – Government Regulations.” Governmental Agency Investigations and Audits. Government agencies may investigate and audit the Company’s contracts and it may be required to refund revenues the Company has received, to forego anticipated revenues, including prohibitions on its bidding in response to RFPs. The governmental agencies with whom the Company contracts generally have the authority to audit and investigate its contracts with them. As part of that process, government agencies may review the Company’s performance under the contract, its pricing practices, its cost structure and its compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. For contracts that actually or effectively provide for certain reimbursement of expenses, if an agency determines that the Company has incorrectly allocated costs to a specific contract, the Company may not be reimbursed for those costs, and it could be required to refund the amount of any such costs that have been reimbursed. Competition. The business of providing correctional healthcare services to governmental agencies is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. The Company is in direct competition with local, regional and national correctional healthcare providers including 12 Table of Contents certain state medical schools and other state or municipal organizations. The Company estimates that it has approximately 9.0% of the combined privatized and non-privatized market, based on national aggregate annual expenditures on correctional healthcare services. Its primary competitors are Correctional Medical Services, which the Company estimates has approximately 8.5% of the combined privatized and non-privatized market, and Wexford Health Sources, Inc., which the Company estimates has approximately 1.7% of such market. As the private market for providing correctional healthcare matures, the Company’s competitors may gain additional experience in bidding and administering correctional healthcare contracts. Competitors may use the additional experience to underbid the Company. In addition, new competitors, some of whom may have extensive experience in related fields or greater financial resources than the Company, may enter the market. Increased competition could result in a loss of contracts and market share and could seriously harm the Company’s business and operating results. Acquisitions. The Company’s expansion strategy involves both internal growth and, as opportunities become available, acquisitions. The inability to successfully integrate future acquisitions may seriously harm the Company’s business or operating revenues. Exposure to Catastrophic Events. Contracts accounting for approximately 8.4% of the Company’s correctional healthcare services revenues from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 contain no limits on the Company’s exposure for treatment costs related to catastrophic illnesses or injuries to inmates. Although the Company attempts to compensate for the increased financial risk when pricing contracts that do not contain catastrophic limits and has not had any catastrophic illnesses or injuries to inmates that exceeded its insurance coverage in the past, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience a catastrophic illness or injury of a patient that exceeds its coverage in the future. The occurrence of severe individual cases outside of those catastrophic limits could render contracts unprofitable and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on Key Personnel. The success of the Company depends in large part on the ability and experience of its senior management. The loss of services of one or more key employees could adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. The Company has employment contracts with Michael Catalano, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Lawrence H. Pomeroy, Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer; Michael W. Taylor, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Richard Hallworth, Chief Operating Officer and President of PHS, as well as certain other key personnel. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on any member of its senior management. Dependence on Healthcare Personnel. The Company’s success depends on its ability to attract and retain highly skilled healthcare personnel. A shortage of trained and competent employees and/or independent contractors may result in overtime costs or the need to hire less efficient and more costly temporary staff. Attracting qualified nurses at a reasonable cost in some markets has been and continues to be of concern to the Company. Approximately 37% of the Company’s contracts contain financial penalties that apply when performance or staffing criteria are not achieved. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company incurred revenue deductions related to these criteria totaling approximately $2.8 million, or 0.4% of the Company’s healthcare revenues from continuing operations and discontinued operations combined. The Company faces stiff competition for staffing, which may increase its labor costs and reduce profitability. The Company competes with other healthcare and service providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of its business, including nurses and other healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of nurses and other medical support personnel has become a significant operating issue to healthcare businesses. This scarcity may require the Company to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. Because a significant percentage of the Company’s existing contracts are structured as fixed fee contracts, the Company has a limited ability to pass along increased labor costs to existing customers. If the Company is not successful in attracting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified healthcare personnel in the future, it may not be able to perform under its contracts, which could lead to the loss of existing contracts or its ability to gain new contracts. Corporate Exposure to Professional Liability. The Company’s business ordinarily results in the Company becoming involved in actions for medical malpractice and other claims related to the provision of healthcare services with the attendant risk of substantial damage awards, or court endorsed non-monetary relief such as, changes in operating practices or procedures, which may lead to the potential for substantial increases in the Company’s operating expenses. The most significant source of potential liability in this regard is the risk of suits brought by inmates alleging negligent healthcare services or the lack of timely adequate healthcare services. The Company may also be liable, as employer, for the negligence of healthcare professionals it employs or healthcare professionals or entities with whom it contracts. A substantial number of the Company’s contracts generally provide for the Company to indemnify the governmental agency for losses incurred related to healthcare provided by the Company and its agents. The Company maintains professional and general liability insurance; however, due to the use of a large deductible policy in 2001 and the use of adjustable premium policies in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, the Company is effectively self-insured for professional liability claims incurred under its primary program. In addition to its primary program, the Company also has insurance policies that relate to certain specific healthcare services contracts. Management establishes reserves for the estimated losses that will be incurred under these insurance policies after taking into consideration internal and external counsel evaluations of the merits of the individual claims, analysis of claim history and the estimated reserves recommended by the Company’s third-party 13 Table of Contents administrator. The Company requires its independent contractors to maintain professional liability insurance in amounts deemed appropriate by management based upon the Company’s claims history and the nature and risks of its business. However, there can be no assurance that a future claim or claims will not exceed management’s loss estimates or the limits of available insurance coverage. Recently, the cost of malpractice and other liability insurance has risen significantly. Adequate levels of insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable price. The Company is dependent on the financial health of the insurance carriers with whom it has insurance policies. Substantially all of the Company’s contracts require the Company to be insured at certain levels. Failure to obtain sufficient levels of professional liability insurance or deterioration in an insurance carrier’s financial health may expose the Company to significant financial or contractual losses. Dependence on Information Systems. The Company depends on its information technology systems for timely and accurate information. Failure to maintain effective and efficient information technology systems or disruptions in the Company’s information technology systems could cause disruptions in its business operations, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, disputes with customers and providers, potential regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses and other adverse consequences. Dependence on Credit Facility. The Company’s debt consists of a credit facility dated October 31, 2005 with CapitalSource Finance LLC. The Company is dependent on the availability of borrowings pursuant to this credit facility to meet its working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and other cash flow requirements. The credit facility requires the Company to meet certain financial covenants related to minimum levels of earnings. The financial covenants contained in the credit facility are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Should the Company fail to meet its projected results or fail to remain in compliance with the terms of the credit facility, it may be forced to seek alternative sources of financing. No assurances can be made that the Company can obtain alternative financing arrangements on terms acceptable to it, or at all. Performance Bonds. The Company is required under certain contracts to provide a performance bond. At December 31, 2005, the Company has outstanding performance bonds totaling $17.4 million. The performance bonds are renewed on an annual basis. The market for performance bonds was severely impacted by certain corporate failures in recent years and the events of September 11, 2001 and continues to be impacted by general economic conditions. Consequently, the sureties for the Company’s performance bond program may require additional collateral to issue or renew performance bonds in support of certain contracts. The letters of credit, at December 31, 2005 in the amount of $4.0 million, which the Company utilizes as collateral for its performance bonds are collateralized by restricted cash borrowed under the Company’s credit facility, thus reducing funds available for debt service and working capital. The Company is also dependant on the financial health of the surety companies that it relies on to issue its performance bonds. An inability to obtain new or renew existing performance bonds could result in limitations on the Company’s ability to bid for new or renew existing contracts which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Other Available Information The Company files its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports with the SEC. Copies of these documents may be obtained by visiting the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549, by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or by accessing the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable, after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC, the Company makes copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through its web site at http://www.asgr.com or by contacting its Corporate Secretary at its principal offices, which are located at 105 Westpark Drive, Suite 200, Brentwood, Tennessee 37027, telephone number (615) 373-3100. The Company did not amend its previously filed Annual Reports on Forms 10-K or Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-Q for the restatement. Accordingly, the financial statements and other information contained in such reports should no longer be relied upon. 