Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the events discussed in the following risks were to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known, or currently deemed immaterial by the Company, may also constrain its business and operations. In either case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and stockholders could lose all or part of their investment. The Company has paid refunds to customers and may be required to pay, or incur expenses investigating claims of, additional refunds. As a result of the internal investigation described in Item 1. “Business — Audit Committee Investigation,” the Audit Committee determined that, in certain instances, SPP did not charge its customers in accordance with applicable contracts. As a result, the Company recorded accruals to provide aggregate refunds to customers of approximately $3.7 million, covering all periods since the Company’s acquisition of SPP in September 2000, plus interest at the applicable federal rate (which ranged from 4% to 9%) during the period covered by the investigation. These amounts represented management’s best estimate of the amounts due to affected customers based on the Audit Committee’s investigation. However, the Company can provide no assurance that a customer or a third-party, including a governmental entity, will not assert that additional amounts, which may include penalties, are owed to these customers and, that as a result of such assertions, the Company will not incur additional investigation and related expenses or be required to make additional refunds. The Company is the subject of a certain government inquiry and we could become the subject of additional government investigations, enforcement actions or penalties in the future, any of which could adversely affect the Company. The Company could be the subject of future government investigations, enforcement actions or penalties. As previously and currently disclosed, the Company was the subject of an informal inquiry by the SEC as it related to the Audit Committee investigation. However, in November 2009, the SEC confirmed that its informal inquiry has been formally closed without any enforcement action. The SEC further confirmed it never issued a formal order of investigation or a Wells Notice relating to this matter. The Company was also the subject of an informal inquiry by the U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee (the “U.S. Attorney”) with respect to those matters that were the subject of the Audit Committee’s internal investigation. The Company was recently informed that the U.S. Attorney has no active investigation against the Company. In addition, the Company has received notice from the Delaware Department of Justice, Office of Attorney General that it is conducting an inquiry into the indirect payment of claims by the Delaware Department of Correction to SPP for pharmaceutical services (see Note 21 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”). Both the Audit Committee and the Company have cooperated and intend to continue to cooperate fully with the Delaware Attorney General regarding its inquiry. However, there can be no assurance that the Delaware Attorney General or any other governmental authority (including, without limitation, the governmental entities with which the Company entered into contractual relationships) will not take any action that would adversely affect the Company as a result of the matters investigated by the Audit Committee. Such actions could result in criminal, civil or other penalties, including the imposition of fines, the termination of existing contracts, the debarment from pursuing future business in certain jurisdictions or additional restatements of the Company’s financial statements. Management of the Company is unable to predict the effect that any such actions may have on its business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or stock price. The Company is a defendant in a shareholder class action lawsuit and may be required to pay damages in excess of the coverage of its directors and officers liability insurance. The Company and certain of its executive officers have been named defendants in a shareholder class action lawsuit (see Note 21 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements and Item 3. “Legal Proceedings”). Additionally, the Company and its current or former directors or officers could be named defendants in future shareholder class actions. On July 22, 2009, the Court administratively closed the shareholder litigation case, while the parties pursued mediation of this matter. On February 19, 2010, the parties agreed to the terms of a mediator’s proposal to settle all of the claims in this lawsuit. The settlement, which is subject to final documentation as well as approval by the Court, provides for payment by the Company of $10.5 million and issuance by the Company of 300,000 shares of common stock and would lead to a dismissal with prejudice of all claims against all defendants in the litigation. The preliminary total value of the settlement, based upon the Company’s closing share price for its common stock of $15.42 per share on February 19, 2010, is approximately $15.1 million. As such, the Company has recorded a reserve of $15.1 million, which has been included in accrued expenses in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009. The final value of the settlement will be determined based upon the Company’s closing share price at the time of final approval of the settlement by the Court. The settlement provides for price protection to the plaintiffs in the event the closing share price is below $14.65 per share at the time of final approval of the settlement by the Court. In such event, the Company would pay in cash the difference between the share value at the time of final approval and $14.65 per share. The parties are formalizing the terms of the settlement through a written agreement which will be executed by the parties and presented to the Court for final approval. Upon final approval of the Court and payment of the settlement amount, the Company will consider this matter closed. In September 2009, the Company and its primary D&O carrier reached an agreement under which the Company and the primary D&O carrier mutually released each other from future claims related to this matter and the primary D&O carrier remitted insurance proceeds to the Company totaling $8.0 million, less approximately $0.4 million in legal fees 10 Table of Contents paid by the primary D&O carrier as of the settlement date. The Company has paid and/or accrued additional legal fees incurred through December 31, 2009, of $0.8 million related to this matter. In addition to its primary D&O carrier, the Company also maintains D&O insurance with an excess D&O carrier that provides for additional insurance coverage of up to $5.0 million for losses in excess of $10.0 million. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10K, the excess D&O carrier has denied coverage of this matter. There is a risk that the excess D&O carrier will continue to deny coverage of this matter, or that, even if covered, the Company’s ultimate liability will exceed its recorded reserve and the available limits of insurance. Accordingly, the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and/or stock price. The Company’s revenue depends on client contracts that are generally terminable without cause and termination of contracts accounting for a significant portion of its revenue could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s operating revenue is derived almost exclusively from contracts with state, county and local governmental agencies. Generally, contracts may be terminated by the governmental agency without cause upon proper notice (typically between 60 and 120 days). Governmental agencies may be subject to political or financial influences, including governmental budgetary concerns, that could lead to termination of a contract or failure to renew or extend a contract through no fault of the Company. Although the Company generally attempts to renew or renegotiate contracts at or prior to their termination, contracts that are put out for bid are subject to intense competition. As a result, the Company’s portfolio of contracts is subject to change. The changes in the Company’s portfolio of contracts are largely unpredictable, which creates uncertainties about the amount of its total revenues from period to period. The Company must engage in competitive bidding for new business to replace contracts that expire or are terminated. The Company, therefore, can provide no assurance that it will be able to replace contracts that expire or are terminated or are not renewed on favorable terms or otherwise. The non-renewal or termination, or renewal on unfavorable terms, of any of the Company’s contracts with governmental agencies could have a material adverse affect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the Company relies on a small number of client contracts for a significant portion of its revenues. The combined revenues of the Company’s Rikers Island, New York, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Department of Corrections and State of Michigan contracts accounted for approximately 48.7% of the total healthcare revenues from continuing and discontinued operations combined for the year ended December 31, 2009. The loss of any of these contracts could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For more information on the Company’s significant contracts, see Item 1. “Business — Major Contracts.” The Company’s cash flow depends on timely payment and any delay or failure of its clients to make payments could adversely affect its results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s cash flow is subject to the receipt of sufficient funding of, and timely payment by, the governmental entities with which it contracts. Economic circumstances at the national, state or local level could affect governmental entity budgets, which could result in insufficient funding, increased pricing pressure or termination of contracts. In addition, federal, state and local governments are constantly under pressure to control additional spending or reduce current levels of spending. Accordingly, if a governmental entity does not receive sufficient or timely funding to cover its obligations under a healthcare services contract, the contract may be terminated and payment for the Company’s services could be delayed or not occur. The termination of contracts, a significant delay in payment or non-payment could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s future growth depends, in part, on further privatization of correctional healthcare services and it can provide no assurances that such further privatization will occur. The Company’s future revenue growth depends, in part, on continued privatization by state, county and local governmental agencies of healthcare services for correctional facilities. The Company believes, based on marketplace information and internal estimates that no significant annualized correctional healthcare contract revenues were newly privatized in 2009 by governmental agencies either for the first time or as a result of the expansion of existing contracted services to encompass additional or expanded services. There can be no assurance that this market will continue to grow, or that existing contracts will continue to be made available to the private sector. Revenue growth could also be adversely affected by material decreases in the inmate population of correctional facilities. Any of these results could cause the Company’s revenue to decline and harm its business and operating results. Negative publicity concerning the Company or its business could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and ability to obtain future business. Negative publicity regarding the provision of correctional healthcare services by for-profit companies, including the Company, or specific alleged actions or inactions of the Company could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or business. Privatization of healthcare services for correctional facilities may encounter resistance from groups or constituencies that believe that healthcare services to correctional facilities should only be provided by governmental agencies. 11 Table of Contents Negative publicity regarding the privatization of correctional healthcare services or specific alleged actions or inactions of the Company or other industry participants may result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices that further increase the Company’s costs of doing business and adversely affect its results of operations by: • requiring the Company to change its services; • placing pressure on certain of the Company’s clients either to force such clients to change the way they do business with the Company or sever their relationship with the Company altogether; • increasing the Company’s exposure to litigation; • increasing the regulatory burdens under which it operates; or • adversely affecting its ability to market its services. Moreover, negative publicity relating to the Company in particular also may adversely affect its ability to renew or maintain existing contracts or to obtain new contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company is subject to extensive government regulations and its failure to comply with such regulations could adversely affect its business or results of operations. Failure to comply with governmental regulations and/or orders of judicial authorities could result in material penalties or non-renewal or termination of the Company’s contracts to manage correctional and detention facilities. The industry in which the Company operates is subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations, including educational, healthcare, pharmacy and safety regulations and judicial orders, decrees and judgments. Some of the regulations are unique to the Company’s industry, and the combination of regulations it faces is unique. Generally, providers of healthcare services to correctional facilities must be able to comply with a variety of applicable state and local regulations and court orders. The Company’s contracts typically include reporting requirements, supervision and on-site monitoring by representatives of the contracting governmental agencies or courts. The Company may not always successfully comply with these regulations or court orders, and failure to comply can result in material penalties, sanctions or non-renewal or termination of contracts, which could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s business and results of operation. For a discussion of certain specific governmental regulations, see Item 1. “Business — Government Regulations.” The Company is subject to audits and investigations of governmental agencies, which could result in reduced reimbursements from its clients, refunds to its clients or civil or criminal penalties. Certain of the governmental agencies with which the Company contracts have the authority to audit and investigate its contracts with them. As part of that process, governmental agencies may review the Company’s performance of the contract, its pricing practices, its cost structure and its compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. For contracts that actually or effectively provide for certain reimbursement of expenses, if an agency determines that the Company has improperly allocated costs to a specific contract, it may not be reimbursed for those costs, and it could be required to refund the amount of any such costs that have been reimbursed. If a government audit asserts improper or illegal activities by the Company, it may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with certain governmental entities. Any adverse determination could adversely impact the Company’s ability to bid in response to RFPs in one or more jurisdictions and could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s business and results of operation. Additionally, as a result of any governmental agency investigations and/or audits, the Company’s collections of balances due from its customers could be substantially delayed. See risk factors below for more information on the Company’s risk of accounts receivable collection. The Company’s business is highly competitive and increased competition could harm its business and operating results. The business of providing correctional healthcare services to governmental agencies is highly competitive with few barriers to entry. The Company is in direct competition with local, regional and national correctional healthcare providers, including certain state medical schools and other state or municipal organizations. The Company estimates that it currently has approximately 7% of the combined privatized and non-privatized market, based on its estimates of national aggregate annual expenditures on correctional healthcare services. Its primary competitors are Correctional Medical Services, which the Company estimates currently has approximately 7% of the combined privatized and non-privatized market, and Wexford Health Sources, Inc., which the Company estimates currently has approximately 2% of such market. The market share estimates shown above for the Company reflect its contracts currently in place. The market share estimates shown above for Correctional Medical Services and Wexford Health Sources, Inc., reflect the Company’s estimate of contracts currently held by these competitors. As the private market for providing correctional healthcare matures, the Company’s competitors may gain additional experience in bidding and administering correctional healthcare contracts. In addition, new competitors, some of whom may have extensive experience in related fields or greater financial resources than the Company, may enter the market. Increased competition could result in a loss of contracts and market share, or less favorable contract terms, and could seriously harm the Company’s business and operating results. 12 Table of Contents The Company’s growth strategy in part depends on its ability to identify, fund and integrate any future acquisitions and no assurances can be made that it will do so successfully. The Company’s expansion strategy involves both internal growth and, as opportunities become available, acquisitions. The inability to identify, fund and successfully integrate future acquisitions may seriously reduce the Company’s potential growth. Certain of the Company’s contracts expose it to costs related to catastrophic events, and therefore any such event could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. At December 31, 2009, contracts accounting for approximately 7.8% of the Company’s correctional healthcare services revenues from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 contain no limits on the Company’s exposure for treatment costs related to catastrophic illnesses or injuries to inmates. Although the Company attempts to compensate for the increased financial risk when pricing contracts that do not contain catastrophic limits, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience a catastrophic illness or injury of a patient that exceeds its coverage in the future. The occurrence of severe individual cases outside of the catastrophic limits contained in the Company’s insurance coverage could render contracts unprofitable and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company depends on key personnel, the loss of whom could adversely affect its business and operating results. The success of the Company depends in large part on the ability and experience of its senior management. The loss of services of one or more key employees could adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. The Company has employment contracts with Richard Hallworth, President and Chief Executive Officer; Michael W. Taylor, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Jonathan B. Walker, Senior Vice President and Chief Development Officer, as well as certain other key personnel. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on any member of its senior management. The Company faces significant competition for qualified healthcare professionals and its failure to attract such professionals could adversely affect its operating results. The Company faces stiff competition for staffing, which may increase its labor, professional liability and other costs (including contractually mandated penalties) and reduce profitability. The Company competes with other healthcare and service providers in recruiting qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of its business, including nurses and other healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarcity of physicians, nurses and other medical support personnel is a significant operating issue to healthcare businesses. This scarcity may require the Company to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain qualified nurses and other healthcare professionals. Because a significant percentage of the Company’s existing contracts are structured as fixed fee and/or population based contracts, the Company’s ability to pass along increased labor costs is limited. If the Company is not successful in attracting and retaining a sufficient number of qualified healthcare personnel in the future, it may not be able to perform under its contracts, which could lead to the loss of existing contracts or its ability to obtain new contracts. Moreover, lack of success in this area could further result in the provision of negligent healthcare services or in the provision of untimely healthcare services, or in the allegation of such negligent or untimely services (whether valid or invalid), any or all of which could increase the Company’s exposure to professional, medical, pharmaceutical or other liability expenses. Additionally, approximately 48% of the Company’s contracts contain financial penalties that apply when performance or staffing criteria are not achieved. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company incurred revenue deductions related to these criteria totaling approximately $0.2 million, or less than 1% of the Company’s total healthcare revenues from continuing operations and discontinued operations combined. Failure to attract qualified management and staff personnel for the day-to-day operations of the Company’s business could materially adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. As a result of its business, the Company is exposed to professional liability claims and can provide no assurances that adequate levels of liability insurance will continue to be available or that it will not be exposed to claims in excess of its insurance coverage. The Company’s business ordinarily results in the Company becoming involved in actions for medical malpractice and other claims related to the provision of healthcare services with the attendant risk of substantial damage awards, or court endorsed non-monetary relief such as changes in operating practices or procedures, which may lead to the potential for substantial increases in the Company’s operating expenses. The most significant source of potential liability in this regard is the risk of suits brought by inmates (or their successors) alleging negligent healthcare services or the lack of timely adequate healthcare services. The Company may also be liable, as employer, for the negligence of healthcare professionals it employs or healthcare professionals or entities with whom it contracts. All but one of the Company’s contracts generally provides for the Company to indemnify the governmental agency for losses incurred related to healthcare provided by the Company and its agents. The Company maintains professional and general liability insurance; however, due to the use of adjustable premium policies in 2002 through 2006 and 2008 through 2009, with respect to a majority of its patients, the Company is effectively self-insured for professional liability claims incurred under its primary program. For 2007, the Company is insured through a claims made policy subject to per event and aggregate coverage limits. Any amounts ultimately incurred above the coverage limits contained in the Company’s professional and general liability insurance policies would be the responsibility of the Company. In addition to its primary program, the Company also has traditional risk transfer insurance policies that relate to certain specific healthcare services contracts. Many of the Company’s independent contractors maintain professional liability insurance in amounts deemed appropriate by management based upon the Company’s claims history and the nature and risks of its business. The Company indemnifies and pays for such coverage for some of its independent contractors. Management establishes reserves for the estimated losses that will be incurred under these insurance policies 13 Table of Contents after taking into consideration the Company’s professional liability claims department and external counsel evaluations of the merits of the individual claims, analysis of claim history, actuarial analysis and coverage limits where applicable. However, there can be no assurance that a future claim or claims will not exceed management’s loss estimates or the limits of available insurance coverage, the result of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate levels of insurance at reasonable costs its business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Adequate levels of malpractice and other liability insurance may not continue to be available to the Company at a reasonable price or at all. The Company is dependent on the financial health of the insurance carriers with whom it has insurance policies. Substantially all of the Company’s contracts require the Company to be insured at certain levels. Failure to obtain sufficient levels of professional liability insurance at a reasonable price or at all or deterioration in an insurance carrier’s financial health, may expose the Company to significant financial or contractual losses, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Company’s business depends on the operation of its information technology systems and the failure or disruption of these systems could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company depends on its information technology systems for timely and accurate information. Failure to maintain effective and efficient information technology systems or disruptions in the Company’s information technology systems could cause disruptions in its business operations, loss of existing customers, difficulty in attracting new customers, disputes with customers and providers, potential regulatory problems, increases in administrative expenses and other adverse consequences. The Company’s failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect its business and operating results. Under rules of the SEC, promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Company is required to furnish in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for each fiscal year a report by management on its internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31 of the applicable fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not its internal control over financial reporting is effective. In the course of the Company’s assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, the Company has not identified any material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting. However, the Company cannot assure you that deficiencies or weaknesses in its controls and procedures will not be identified in the future. Any weaknesses or deficiencies that might be identified in the future, could harm the Company’s business and operating results, and could result in adverse publicity and a loss in investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of its financial reports. The Company may be dependent on its credit facility for its capital requirements and it can make no assurances that it will be able to obtain alternative financing. The Company’s debt consists of a credit facility dated July 28, 2009, which was subsequently amended on March 2, 2010, with CapitalSource Bank. The Company may be dependent on the availability of borrowings pursuant to this credit facility to meet its working capital needs, capital expenditure requirements and other cash flow requirements. Recent market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging, with significantly tighter credit markets. As a result of these conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected in the United States. Concern about the stability of the markets, generally, and the strength of numerous financial institutions, specifically, has led many lenders to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide funding to borrowers. If these market and economic conditions continue, they may limit the Company’s ability to borrow money from CapitalSource Bank or other lenders. If the Company is unable to borrow sufficient amounts of money to fund its capital requirements, its financial condition, business and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the Company’s access to funds under its credit facility depends on the ability of CapitalSource Bank to meet its funding commitment to the Company. The Company can provide no assurance that continuing long-term disruptions in the global economy and the continuation of tighter credit conditions among, and potential failures of, third party financial institutions as a result of such disruptions, will not have an adverse effect on CapitalSource Bank and its lenders. If the Company’s lenders are not able to meet their funding commitments, the Company’s business, results of operation, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. The credit facility requires the Company to meet certain financial covenants related to minimum levels of earnings. The financial covenants contained in the credit facility are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. At December 31, 2009, the Company was not in compliance with one of the financial covenant requirements due to the accrual of expense associated with settlement of the shareholder litigation. For further information regarding the shareholder litigation, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” The Company has obtained a waiver of the debt covenant violation and an amendment to the calculation of the covenant to exclude a portion of the expense associated with the shareholder litigation. Should the Company fail to meet its projected results, fail to remain in compliance with the terms of the credit facility or fail to obtain a waiver, amendment or other curative document, in the event of default, it may be forced to seek alternative sources of financing. No assurances can be made that the Company can obtain alternative financing arrangements on terms acceptable to it, or at all. 14 Table of Contents A prolonged economic slowdown or recession could adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. The Company may be exposed to risks related to the overall macro-economic environment, including deflationary pressures on pricing and governmental budgetary shortfalls that could result in inadequate payments under its healthcare services contracts. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase the Company’s funding and working capital costs, limit its access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to the Company, any of which would adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. An increase in inflation could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Some of the Company’s contracts provide for annual increases in the fixed base fee based upon changes in the regional medical care component of the Consumer Price Index. In all other contracts that extend beyond one year, the Company utilizes a projection of the future inflation rate of its cost of services when bidding and negotiating the fixed fee for future years. If inflation exceeds projected levels, depending on the contract structure, the Company’s profitability could be adversely affected. The Company is required to maintain performance bonds and if it is unable to obtain or renew such bonds its financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company is required under certain contracts to provide a performance bond and may also be required to post performance bonds for other business reasons. At December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding performance bonds totaling $16.0 million. The performance bonds are renewed on an annual basis. The Company has letters of credit in the amount of $1.6 million at December 31, 2009 that collateralize these performance bonds, reduce availability under the Company’s credit facility and limit funds available for working capital. The Company is also dependant on the financial health of the surety companies that it relies on to issue its performance bonds. An inability to obtain new or renew existing performance bonds could result in limitations on the Company’s ability to bid for new or renew existing contracts which could have a negative effect on the Company’s ability to retain existing contracts or be awarded new contracts. A change in the Company’s estimate of collectibility, or a delay in collection, of its accounts receivable, could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company’s accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. The Company recognizes allowances for doubtful accounts based on a variety of factors, including the length of time receivables are past due, significant one-time events, contractual rights, client funding and/or political pressures, discussions with clients and historical experience. If circumstances change, estimates of the recoverability of receivables would be further adjusted and such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. Additionally, the timing of the collection of accounts receivable, if delayed, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cash flows from operations, days sales outstanding in accounts receivable, cash balances and debt levels outstanding. The Company’s stock repurchase program could affect its stock price and add volatility. There can be no assurance that the repurchases will be made or will be made at the best possible price. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause the Company’s stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for its stock. Additionally, the Company is permitted to and could discontinue its stock repurchase program at any time and any such discontinuation could cause the market price of its stock to decline. The failure of a third party insurance carrier with whom the Company contracts could result in the Company losing insurance coverage or access to loss funding which has been prepaid to the insurance carrier. The Company contracts with third party insurance carriers to provide insurance related to worker’s compensation and professional liability claims for years 2002 to 2006 and 2008 through 2009. The Company’s insurance coverage under these policies is essentially self-insurance in the form of retro-premium adjustments based on actual claims experience. Under the terms of its insurance coverage for these policy periods, the Company was required to prepay insurance premiums to its third party insurance carrier, which are held by the third party insurance carrier to pay valid claims made under the policies in the same or subsequent years. For the 2007 professional liability claims policy, the Company has maintained an insurance policy that provides for per event and aggregate coverage limits on a claims made basis based on a fixed paid premium. If the financial position and/or liquidity of one of these third party insurance carriers were to become impaired such that the third party insurer was unable to pay claims or meet its contractual obligations to the Company, the Company could lose all or a portion of its prepaid premiums to such carrier and/or lose the benefit of the coverage it has paid for, the occurrence of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and its results of operations. The Company regularly maintains cash balances at a commercial bank in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit and the failure of such commercial bank could result in the loss of a portion of such cash deposits. The Company regularly maintains cash balances at a commercial bank in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit. If the commercial bank were to fail or be seized by federal regulators, the Company could lose a portion of its cash deposits at such bank, the result of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company has not established a minimum dividend payment level for its common stockholders and there are no assurances of the Company’s ability to pay dividends to common stockholders in the future. In July 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a quarterly dividend program for the purpose of returning capital to the Company’s stockholders. However, the Company has 15 Table of Contents not established a minimum dividend payment level for its common stockholders and its ability to pay dividends may be harmed by the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the other documents it files from time to time with the SEC. Future dividends, if any, will be authorized by the Company’s Board of Directors and declared by the Company based upon a variety of factors deemed relevant by the Company’s directors, including, among other things, the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, earnings projections and business prospects. In addition, financial covenants in the Company’s credit facility may restrict the Company’s ability to pay future quarterly dividends. The Company can provide no assurance of its ability to pay dividends in the future. A decline in the fair value of the Company’s business could cause the Company to impair its goodwill resulting in a material non-cash charge to earnings. At December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $41.0 million of goodwill recorded on its books. The Company expects to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through its future cash flows. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates, based on the fair value of its business, whether the carrying value of its goodwill is impaired. If the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill is impaired, it may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings. The current turmoil in the financial markets and weakness in macroeconomic conditions globally continue to be challenging and the Company cannot be certain of the duration of these conditions and their potential impact on its stock price performance. If a material decline in the Company’s market capitalization and other factors resulted in the decline in its fair value, it is reasonably likely that a goodwill impairment assessment prior to the next annual review, at December 31, 2010, would be necessary. If such an assessment is required, an impairment of goodwill may be recognized. A non-cash goodwill impairment charge would have the effect of decreasing the Company’s earnings or increasing its losses in the period the impairment is recognized. The amount of such effect on earnings and losses is dependent on the size of the impairment charge. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 