ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in an environment that is difficult to predict and that involves significant risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those set forth below. Other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are not currently believed to be material, if they occur, also may adversely affect us. In particular, these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual financial, operating and other results to differ materially from any results that we might project, forecast, estimate or budget in our forward-looking statements. We are subject to numerous risks currently affecting our business. We are currently subject to many risks, including, without limitation: • our ability to manage decreased revenue levels; • our need to attract new business and clients and increase revenues; • our declining cash position; • our ability to manage costs and headcount relative to expected revenues; • our ability to successfully introduce new product and service offerings; • our dependence on a limited number of clients for a large portion of our revenue; • the potential loss of significant clients; • our ability to sell additional work to existing clients; • our ability to attract and retain employees; • the rapidly changing nature of information technology services, including our ability to keep pace with technological and market changes and our ability to refine and add to existing service offerings; • the decreasing level of inducement options available under our 2006 Employee Inducement Award Plan for grants by us to attract new employees; • the impact that the expiration of our shareholder approved 1996 Stock Incentive Plan may have on our ability to retain existing employees; and • changing business, economic or market conditions and changes in competitive and other factors. We must increase revenues and return to profitability in order to continue as a going concern. We have experienced ongoing decreased demand for our services resulting in declining revenues and recurring operating losses. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 we had operating losses of $9.7 million, $18.1 million and $9.3 million, respectively. We need to attract business from new clients through sales and marketing efforts and through specialty services that address targeted industry and business concerns in order to continue as a successful service provider. If we are unable to increase revenues and regain profitability, we may realize a decline in the quality of our services and products and our ability to retain key personnel and our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Page 7 Table of Contents We may not be able to introduce new services and products successfully, and our failure to do could cause our results of operations to suffer. We have introduced a number of new service offerings to address the need for increased revenues. Our acquisition of Zamba on December 31, 2004 formed the basis of our customer relationship management offering. Our acquisition of Charter on March 15, 2006 helped position us to provide enhanced consulting value in strategic customer demand generation and operational effectiveness. We combined our Charter and customer relationship management offerings mid-year in order to provide a full spectrum of customer value creation services. In addition, our healthcare service offering is another example of our efforts to expand our base of services. No assurance can be given that these or any future service offerings will gain acceptance with our existing clients or any prospective clients. For example, in the past we have introduced service offerings in the consumer products and retail areas that have been less successful than anticipated and have been discontinued. The absence of successful new service offerings or substantial expansion of existing service lines will have an adverse impact on our future revenues. In addition, the introduction of unsuccessful service offerings may result in write-offs and other expenses that could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. In recent years no major technological developments have been introduced that could replace the applications with respect to which we currently provide services and could render some of our existing expertise obsolete. If such developments occur there can be no assurance that we will have the technological expertise to provide services to address such developments or to replace services that become obsolete. If we are unable to introduce new services and products successfully, we will realize a relative decline in the quality of our services and products and our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. If we continue to experience operating losses, our cash resources will be depleted and additional sources of cash will be required if we are to continue as a going concern. We expect to experience continued operating losses until revenues increase sufficiently to cover operating costs. Until such time, our operating losses and the associated cash requirements are expected to be funded from existing cash resources. As of December 31, 2006, we had $13.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. If we are not successful in increasing revenues and eliminating negative cash flows, it will be necessary to raise additional capital to offset losses from operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any additional financing or that, if we were to be successful in finding financing, it would be on favorable terms. Failure to obtain necessary cash resources will threaten our ability to continue as a going concern. We must manage costs to match the level of demand for our services, and failure to do so will adversely affect our business. We regularly evaluate our business needs and the skill sets of our employees in order to balance our resources and costs. Any failure to effectively manage costs and resources will adversely affect our business. While we have taken steps to reduce our costs, we may be required to take further actions to reduce our costs if revenues are insufficient to support our cost structure. Page 8 Table of Contents However, we may encounter limits to our ability to reduce our costs further. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to implement additional cost reductions necessary to match declining demand. In addition, efforts to reduce our cost structure could adversely affect our ability to increase our future revenues. Any decline in demand without a corresponding and timely reduction in staffing and other expenses, or a staffing increase that is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in demand, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any future increase in demand without a corresponding increase in staffing may render us unable to maintain or improve our market share and/or strain or overwhelm existing management resources, operational resources, financial resources and management information systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully manage future fluctuation in demand. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expectations of future revenues. Accordingly, an unanticipated decrease in the number or average size of our client projects, an unanticipated delay in the scheduling of our client projects, or other decrease in revenues, could materially and adversely affect our operating results and otherwise adversely affect our operations. An unanticipated termination or decrease in the size or scope of a major project, a client’s decision not to proceed with a project as anticipated or the completion during a quarter of a major client project could diminish employee utilization and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Revenues and earnings may also fluctuate from quarter to quarter because of such factors as: • the contractual terms and timing of completion of projects, including achievement of certain business results; • any delays incurred in connection with projects; • the adequacy of provisions for losses and bad debts; • the accuracy of our estimates of resources required to complete ongoing projects; • the loss of key highly skilled personnel necessary to complete projects; • increases in expenditures to support new product and service offerings, e.g., acquisitions of people and technology; and • general economic conditions. We may not realize expected benefits from any restructuring initiatives. In recent years, we have restructured our business and reduced our workforce in order to more closely match our expenses with our revenues. We may have to institute additional restructurings in the future to achieve incremental cost savings or to strategically realign our resources and service offerings. We cannot predict whether we will realize synergies and improved operating performance as a result of any such restructuring. We also cannot predict whether any restructuring will adversely affect our ability to retain key employees which, in turn, could adversely affect our operating results. Our inability to achieve appropriate utilization rates or charge acceptable rates for our services could adversely affect our operating profit. Our current operating profit margins are largely a function of the respective rates we are able to recover for our services and the utilization rate, or chargeability, of our professionals. Accordingly, if we are not able to achieve appropriate pricing for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our professionals, our operating profit margin will suffer in the absence of corresponding cost reductions. Page 9 Table of Contents The rates that we are able to recover for our services are affected by a number of factors, including: • the demand for our services compared to the supply of consultants available to deliver the services; • our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; • the sensitivity of our clients to changes in prices for our services; • our reputation for delivering quality work in a timely manner; • the introduction of new in-demand services or products by us or our competitors; • our competitors’ pricing policies; and • the use of globally sourced, lower-cost service delivery capabilities by our competitors and our clients. We face continuous pressure from several directions on the rates charged to clients. Many of our competitors, including larger consulting firms with greater financial and personnel resources, smaller consulting firms with lower cost structures and large consulting firms in offshore locations such as India that have access to pools of technical consultants at lower costs than consultants based in the United States, may be willing to provide the services at a lower cost than us. Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new engagements; • our ability to enter into long-term contractual relationships with clients; • our ability to accurately forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount; • our ability to increase the ratio of billable employees to non-billable employees; and • our ability to manage attrition and subcontractor costs. We must balance our supply of consultants skilled in a particular service with the demand for that service. If the utilization rate of our consultants is very high it may be difficult to add new clients for these services. Conversely, if the utilization rate is too low the profitability of our business will be adversely impacted. Any negative changes to our retention of consultants, utilization rates or billable rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A limited number of our clients comprise a large portion of our revenues and any decrease in revenues from these clients could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of clients. During 2006, our top two clients accounted for 42% of our revenues before reimbursements and our top five clients accounted for 58% of our revenues before reimbursements. During 2005, our top two clients accounted for 23% of our revenues before reimbursements and our top five clients accounted for 39% of our revenues before reimbursements. In 2004, our top two clients accounted for 19% of our revenues before reimbursements and our top five clients accounted for 38% of our revenues before reimbursements. Page 10 Table of Contents The loss of one or more of these clients could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although our large clients vary from time to time and long-term revenues do not necessarily rely on any one client, our revenues, results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected if we were to lose one or more of our top clients. It is also necessary to replace completed projects with new projects for the same clients or with projects from new clients. No assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully replace completed projects. Unanticipated cancellations or suspensions of projects could adversely affect our operating results. Because of the project-based nature of our work and the fact that some of the projects we undertake are large, there is a risk of a material adverse impact on operating results if there is an unanticipated suspension or cancellation of a large project or a client refuses to pay fees and expenses when due. A project cancellation or suspension or a refusal or failure to pay can be based on any number of causes, many of which are beyond our control. These include financial difficulties of a client; a change in client priorities, client management or client strategies; and a change in client ownership. The suspension or cancellation of a project or a failure or refusal to pay fees and expenses when due, could result in a decrease or adjustment in revenues, the need to reassign staff and damage to our reputation. Because many projects are high profile, mission critical projects for major clients, a failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations for the amounts budgeted, timing and deliverables for the projects we undertake could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract new business or win new project(s) from that same client. In addition, the contracts with many of our clients are short-term and some of our clients are able to reduce or cancel services without incurring any penalties. Unanticipated project cancellations could result in the loss of substantial anticipated revenues and could require us to maintain or terminate a significant number of underutilized employees, resulting in a higher number of unassigned people and/or higher severance expenses. Uncertainty in the economic environment may increase the probability that services may be reduced or canceled. Certain of our engagements are on a fixed cost basis which results in additional operating risks. We contract services on either a time-and-materials basis or a fixed price basis. Both forms of contracts require us to estimate the number of hours and materials required before entering into the contract. In the case of a time-and-materials contract, failure to achieve the estimated results could subject us to pricing pressures from clients (even though there is no legal obligation to complete the work within the estimates) or could lead to the loss of future work from the client. Failure to complete fixed-price contracts within the contractual parameters will expose us to unrecoverable cost overruns. In either case, these failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Page 11 Table of Contents On occasion, we may be subject to project risks arising in connection with incentive provisions in contracts with clients. Certain clients may require payment incentives related to factors such as costs incurred, benefits produced, goals attained or adherence to schedule. In these contracts, payment of all or a portion of the fees owed to us will be contingent upon meeting revenue-enhancement, cost-saving or other contractually defined goals which are often complex and may often be dependent in some measure on the client’s actual levels of business activity. The insistence by our clients to include in contracts incentives related to additional revenues generated, costs incurred, benefits produced or adherence to schedule or other benchmarks could increase the variability of revenues and margins earned by us on such contracts. Our failure to perform services properly could result in substantial claims from clients. Many of our projects involve technology applications or systems that are critical to the operations of a client’s business and handle very large volumes of transactions. Failure to deliver applications or systems to clients with the promised functionality or within the promised time frame, or to satisfy the required service levels for support and maintenance, could result in substantial claims from clients. While we take precautionary actions to create redundancy and back-up systems, any such failures could result in claims by clients for substantial damages. Although we attempt to limit the amount and type of our contractual liability for defects in the applications, systems or services provided, and carry errors and omission insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that these limitations and insurance coverage will be applicable and enforceable in all cases, and the failure of a project could expose us to significant financial exposure. Even if these limitations and insurance coverage are found to be applicable and enforceable, our liability to our clients for these types of claims could be material in amount and could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are incurring costs as a result of being a public company. We incur significant legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company. We are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market®. Compliance with these rules and regulations causes us to incur legal, audit and financial compliance costs, and diverts management attention from operations and strategic opportunities. We will incur additional costs in evaluating and reporting on our internal control over financial reporting and having our independent auditors annually attest to our evaluation as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations there under. Under the most recent rules, we expect to provide our report on internal control over financial reporting when we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K (“10-K”) for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and we would file our independent auditors attestation report on our internal controls over financial reporting when we file our 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We are preparing to comply with Section 404 by assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our initial report on our internal control over financial reporting. The process of assessing and testing our internal controls and attempting to comply with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and it requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that require improvement. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of the fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market® and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. Page 12 Table of Contents We are required to retain independent directors to serve on our board of directors. If vacancies on our board of directors or our audit committee occur that need to be filled by independent directors, we may encounter difficulty in attracting qualified persons to serve on our board, and, in particular, our audit committee. If we fail to attract and retain the required number of independent directors we may be subject to SEC enforcement proceedings and delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market®. We are also incurring high costs to maintain directors and officers insurance. Our operating results will likely fluctuate, which may cause volatility in our stock price. Our operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past, and can be expected to continue to fluctuate, due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our stock price may be significantly affected by these factors, which include, but are not limited to: • changing conditions in the information technology markets, in our targeted industries, and in the U.S. and global economies in general; • the number and timing of new clients and new projects for existing clients; • our ability to replace completed projects with new projects in a timely fashion; • differences in the number of billing days and/or holidays between quarters; • the number of vacation days and sick days taken by our employees in a particular quarter; • the utilization of our employees, and our ability to match available employee resources with client service requirements; • introductions or announcements of new product and service offerings; • changes in accounting rules, such as expensing employee stock option grants; • increased competition from low-priced overseas technology consultants; and • the costs related to meeting new regulations. The failure to meet the expectations of the investment community may cause our stock price to decline, possibly substantially. In addition, from time to time the stock market experiences significant price fluctuations that affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies and are often unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the price of our stock. A significant stock price decline could result in litigation, which could be costly, lengthy and divert management’s attention and resources from business operations. Page 13 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry. The systems consulting and implementation market, which includes a large number of participants, is subject to rapid changes and is highly competitive. We compete with and face potential competition from many companies that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than us. Often, these competitors offer a larger and more diversified suite of products and services than we offer. These competitors may win client engagements by significantly discounting their services in exchange for a client’s promise to purchase other goods and services from the competitor, either concurrently or in the future. We also compete with globally sourced, lower-cost service providers as well as smaller service providers with specific, more narrowly focused service offerings. Our clients primarily consist of companies with between $250 million to $2 billion in annual revenue or similar sized divisions of larger corporations and there are an increasing number of professional services firms seeking consulting engagements from that client base. We believe that our ability to compete depends in part on a number of factors outside our control, including the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate project managers and staff, the long-term relationships that our major competitors may have with potential clients, the ownership by our competitors of software used by potential clients, the development by others of software that is competitive with our products and services and the price at which others offer comparable services. In addition, our clients could develop or acquire in-house expertise in services similar to those we provide, which would significantly reduce demand for our services. No assurances can be given that we will be able to maintain our existing client base, maintain or increase the level of revenue generated by our existing clients or be able to attract new clients. We may engage in strategic acquisitions, investments and dispositions. We may consider acquiring other businesses. There is no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, the ability of management and our employees to integrate the acquired firm’s personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively, to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses and to retain clients of acquired firms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition opportunities, consummate acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired personnel and operations. In addition, any acquisitions we undertake may involve certain other risks, including consumption of available cash resources, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may also need to make further investments to support the acquired company and may have difficulty identifying and acquiring the appropriate resources. There can be no assurance that any acquisitions we undertake will perform as expected. We may enter, on our own and through acquisitions, into new lines of business or initiate new product and service offerings. Our success in any such endeavor will depend upon, among other things, the ability of management to identify suitable opportunities, successfully implement sound business strategies and avoid the legal and business risks of any new line of business, product offering or service offering and/or an acquisition related thereto. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do any of the foregoing. In addition, any such undertakings may result in additional costs without an immediate increase in revenues and may divert management’s attention from the operation and growth of our core business. Page 14 Table of Contents We may also decide to dispose of or otherwise exit businesses, which may result in the recording of accrued liabilities for special one-time charges, such as workforce reduction costs and closure of excess facilities. The market for information technology services is rapidly changing. The systems consulting and implementation market has been characterized by rapid technological advances and developments, including the development of new software products, applications and services. The introduction of new services can make existing services unmarketable. In order to remain competitive, we need to adapt to these rapidly changing technologies, enhance our existing solutions and introduce new solutions to address our clients’ changing demands. Our success will depend in part on our ability to stay abreast of these advances and developments and failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business. We utilize a number of different technologies in developing and providing IT and customer relationship solutions for our clients. The technologies we use can change rapidly. While we evaluate technologies on an ongoing basis and endeavor to utilize those that are most effective in developing IT solutions for our clients, there can be no assurance that the technologies we utilize and the expertise we gain in those technologies will continue to be applicable in the future. There can be no assurance that new technologies will be made available to us or that we will be able to economically apply them. The inability to apply existing technologies and expertise to subsequent projects could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may encounter difficulties in hiring and retaining the personnel required to deliver our services and manage our company. Our business consists mainly of professional services and is inherently labor intensive. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly project managers and other senior personnel. Qualified project managers are often in high demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the future. Several attributes of our work environment pose challenges to our ability to attract and retain employees, including extensive travel requirements, our intense work environment and culture, our high standards for employee technical skills and job performance, our historical practice of adjusting the number of technical personnel to reflect active project levels and the decline in demand for our services. In addition, the number of inducement stock options available for grant to new employees is subject to the limitations contained in 2006 Employment Inducement Award plan. Furthermore, we are unable to grant stock options to existing employees due to lack of a shareholder approved plan. These limitations could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain the necessary professional personnel. The approval of our stockholders will be required to establish a new stock option plan. No assurance can be given that such approval would be granted if requested. Page 15 Table of Contents Although we would like to continue to attract sufficient numbers of highly skilled employees and to retain many of our existing project managers and other senior personnel for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so. Failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and inhibit our ability to regain revenues. We have employment agreements with our senior management employees that contain non-competition, non-disclosure and non-solicitation covenants. Our employment agreements generally do not have fixed expiration dates and may be terminated by either party. Most senior employees have employment agreements that are generally terminable by either party upon 30 to 90 days’ written notice. The loss of some or all of our management personnel or project managers could have a material adverse impact on our business, including our ability to secure and complete engagements. We may be subject to litigation from time to time. From time to time, we have been subject to litigation and we may be subject to litigation in the future. Where we can make a reasonable estimate of the probable liability relating to pending litigation, we record a related liability. As additional information becomes available, we assess the potential liability and revise estimates as appropriate. However, because of uncertainties relating to litigation, the amount of our estimates could be over or understated. Furthermore, in many cases, where we make an estimate the amount of our estimate could be wrong. In addition to the potential cost and use of cash, pending or future litigation could divert management’s attention and resources causing a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Both directors and officers and errors and omissions insurance rates have fluctuated significantly in the past several years. Although these insurance rates have begum to stabilize, we may be subject to future significant rate increases for both types of insurance and, depending on insurance market conditions, may even have difficulty in obtaining such insurance. Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company and its officers and directors. Any such litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to numerous and changing economic and industry conditions. Our revenues and results of operations are subject to fluctuations based on the economic conditions in which we operate. During periods of economic uncertainty or downturn, businesses typically reduce or eliminate their spending on discretionary items such as the services we provide. Under these conditions, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Certain of our clients and potential clients are in industries that experience cyclical variations in profitability, which may in turn affect their willingness or ability to fund systems projects such as those for which we may be engaged. During the downturn of such cycles many of these customers may reduce or eliminate their spending on our services. Page 16 Table of Contents We are dependent on the products and services of third parties. Third party products and services are integral to the success of many of our projects. To the extent that third parties do not deliver effective products and services on a timely basis, our project results could be negatively impacted. We have limited intellectual property rights and they may not be adequate to protect our business. Although our success depends in part upon our specialized expertise and methodologies, it is not materially dependent upon proprietary technology that we own. To protect our proprietary information, we rely on a combination of trade secret and common law employee non-disclosure policies and third-party confidentiality agreements. However, there can be no assurance that any of these steps will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our specialized expertise and methodologies. Some of our clients have required that we grant to them all proprietary and intellectual property rights with respect to the work product resulting from our services, including the intellectual property rights to any custom software that we have developed for them. Each such grant limits our ability to reuse work product components and work product solutions with other clients. We sometimes develop certain foundation and application software tools, methodologies and products that we own and license to our clients. We regard these software tools, methodologies and products as proprietary and we intend to protect our rights, where appropriate, with registered copyrights, patents, registered trademarks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure and transferring title. However, there can be no assurance that any of these steps will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary rights or independent third party development of functionally equivalent products. Although we believe that our services and products, and the services and products of our third-party providers, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement claims against us in the future. Any such claim asserted against us may harm our reputation, cost us money, prevent us from offering some products, services or solutions and divert management’s attention from the operation and growth of our business. Our ability to use our net operating losses could be limited. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $76 million of tax net operating loss carryforwards. Realization of any benefit from our tax net operating losses is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income and the absence of certain “ownership changes” of our common stock. An “ownership change,” as defined in the applicable federal income tax rules, would place significant limitations, on an annual basis, on the use of such net operating losses to offset any future taxable income we may generate. Such limitations, in conjunction with the net operating loss expiration provisions, could effectively eliminate our ability to use a substantial portion of our net operating losses to offset any future taxable income. Furthermore, it is possible that we have incurred one or more ownership changes in the past, in which case our ability to use our net operating losses would be limited. Page 17 Table of Contents Our rights plan as well as provisions of our Company’s charter and by-laws may discourage certain extraordinary transactions. We have adopted a stockholder rights plan, which may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition. In addition, provisions of our Company’s charter and by-laws may have a similar effect. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences and issue shares of preferred stock. We have engaged in limited international operations which are subject to special risks. We have engaged in limited international operations. Because the cost of doing business abroad is typically higher for United States businesses than the cost of doing business domestically, we could experience a decline in our operating margins if the significance of our international operations increases. International operations and the provision of services in foreign markets are subject to a number of special risks, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade barriers, exchange controls, national and regional labor strikes, political risks, additional security concerns and risks of increases in duties, taxes and governmental royalties, as well as changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies. In addition, any success we experience internationally may depend upon our ability to attract, develop and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled, motivated local professional employees in each of those foreign countries where we conduct operations. Competition for such local personnel qualified to deliver our services can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to recruit, develop and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled, motivated, local professional employees to compete successfully in the international market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 