ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain “forward-looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to statements concerning new products, development and offerings of products and services, market positioning, Application Networking, Application Performance Monitoring, Citrix Delivery Center, Desktop Virtualization, Server Virtualization, Application Virtualization, Subscription Advantage, XenApp, NetScaler, XenServer and XenDesktop, Citrix Ready, Citrix Repeater products and Access Gateway, our Partner Network, Product Licenses, cash and non-cash charges, product and price competition, our Online Services division, competition and strategy, customer diversification, employees, suppliers, contract manufacturers, product price and inventory, contingent consideration payments, deferred revenues, government regulation (including the FCC), seasonal factors, natural disasters, stock-based compensation, licensing and subscription renewal programs, computer system enhancements, international operations and expansion, revenue recognition, profits, growth of revenues, composition of revenues, cost of net revenues, operating expenses, sales and sales cycle, marketing and support expenses, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, obsolete materials 11 Table of Contents charges, royalty payments, valuations of investments and derivative instruments, technology relationships, open source software, reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings, gross margins, amortization expense, goodwill and intangible assets, interest income, interest expense, impairment charges, anticipated operating and capital expenditure requirements, cash inflows, contractual obligations, our Credit Facility, in-process research and development, tax rates and deductions, tax liabilities and benefits, SFAS No. 109, SFAS No. 123R, SFAS No. 141R, SFAS No. 157, SFAS No. 160, SFAS No. 161, leasing activities and obligations, acquisitions, stock repurchases, investment transactions (including our investment in bonds issued by AIG Matched Funding Corporation (the “AIG Capped Floater”) and investments in auction rate and available-for-sale securities) changes in domestic and foreign economic conditions and credit markets, restructuring activities (including our Strategic Restructuring Program), customer delays or reductions in technology purchases, liquidity, litigation matters, intellectual property matters, distribution channels, stock price, payment of dividends, Advisor Rewards program, Microsoft agreements the Intel agreement, price protection rights, proprietary technology, security measures, third party licenses, and potential debt or equity financings constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and could in the future vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made. Adverse changes in general economic conditions in the United States or any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As a global company, we are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and market conditions. The worldwide economy is currently undergoing unprecedented turmoil amid stock market volatility, difficulties in the financial services sector, tightening of the credit markets, softness in the housing markets, concerns of inflation and deflation, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and continuing economic uncertainties. This recession and the uncertainty about future economic conditions could negatively impact our current and prospective customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases. As a result, we could experience fewer orders, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The adverse economic conditions also may negatively impact our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of this severe global economic recession or subsequent recovery. Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market. The demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. As a result of poor general economic and market conditions, future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain as companies reassess their spending for technology projects. In the past, adverse economic conditions decreased demand for our products and negatively impacted our financial results. If an unfavorable environment for information technology spending continues, it could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our long sales cycle for enterprise-wide sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. In recent quarters, a growing number of our large and medium-sized customers have decided to implement our enterprise customer license arrangements on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. Our long sales cycle for these large-scale deployments makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. We have a long sales cycle for these enterprise-wide sales because: • our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale; 12 Table of Contents • our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; • our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and • before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. The continued long sales cycle for these large-scale deployment sales could make it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. We face intense competition, which could result in fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our products in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. For example, our ability to market our Application Virtualization products, including XenApp, Access Essentials, Password Manager and other future product offerings and upgrades, could be affected by Microsoft’s licensing and pricing scheme for client devices, servers and applications. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new Windows-based server operating systems or products incorporating similar features to our products could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product and service offerings. In addition, alternative products for application delivery directly and indirectly compete with our current product lines and our online services. Existing or new products and services that provide alternatives to our products and services, including those relating to application virtualization, server and desktop virtualization Web application optimization, application performance monitoring, branch office application delivery and WAN optimization, virtual desktop delivery, secure sockets layers/virtual private network, gateways, on-demand assistance, online collaboration and IP telephony, can materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. Our current competitors in these markets include Cisco, F5, Juniper, Riverbed, VMware, Microsoft and Blue Coat. For further discussion of the competitive environment for our products, see the section entitled “Competition” in Part 1—Item 1. As the markets for our products and services continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer appliances, software and networking industries could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of our Application Virtualization products constitute a majority of our revenue and decreases in demand for our Application Virtualization products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that sales of our Application Virtualization products and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to continue to generate revenue from our Application Virtualization products will depend on market acceptance of Windows Server Operating Systems and/or UNIX Operating Systems. Declines and variability in demand for our Application Virtualization products could occur as a result of: • new competitive product releases and updates to existing products; • termination of our product offerings and enhancements; • potential market saturation; • technological change; • general economic conditions; or • lack of success of entities with which we have a technology relationship. If our customers do not continue to purchase our Application Virtualization products as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, modification or termination of certain of our Application Virtualization products may cause variability in our revenue and make it difficult to predict our revenue growth and trends in our Application Virtualization products as our customers adjust their purchasing decisions in response to such events. 13 Table of Contents Our Server Virtualization products and services are based on an emerging technology, the market for this line of products and services remains uncertain. Our Server Virtualization products and services are based on an emerging technology platform, the success of which will depend on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with adopting server and desktop virtualization solutions. The relatively limited extent to which server virtualization solutions have been adopted may make it difficult to evaluate this technology’s impact on our business because the market for these products and services remains uncertain. To the extent that the server virtualization market develops more slowly or less comprehensively than we expect, the revenue growth associated with virtualization products and services may be slower than currently expected, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We acquired XenSource in October 2007 with the expectation that the acquisition would result in various benefits including, among other things, enhanced revenue and profits, greater market presence and development, and enhancements to our product portfolio and customer base. The acquisition of XenSource moved us into the adjacent server and desktop virtualization markets, which we believe will allow us to extend our leadership in the broader Application Delivery Infrastructure market by adding key enabling technologies that make the end-to-end computing environment more flexible, dynamic and responsive to business change. We may not realize any of these benefits. If we do not develop new products and services or enhancements to our existing products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are characterized by: • rapid technological change; • evolving industry standards; • fluctuations in customer demand; • changes in customer requirements; and • frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and services and develop and introduce new products and services that our customers choose to buy. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments and customer demands by introducing new products and services and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by: • delays in our introduction of new products and services; • delays in market acceptance of new products and services or new releases of our current products and services; and • our, or a competitor’s, announcement of new product or service enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product and service offerings. In order for a number of our products to succeed in the future, we believe the demand for technology will need to shift from the types of products and services we and our competitors have sold in the past to a new generation of products we now offer. For example, we cannot guarantee that our Citrix Delivery Center products and Online Services will achieve the broad market acceptance by our channel partners and entities with which we have a technology relationship, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products and services or new releases of our current products and services, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that we could incur additional costs and royalties as we develop, license or buy new technologies or enhancements to our existing products. These added costs and royalties could increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses. However, we cannot currently quantify the costs for such transactions that have not yet occurred. In addition, we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash and investments to fund these additional costs. Our business could be adversely impacted by a failure to renew our agreements with Microsoft for source code access. In December 2004, we entered into a five-year technology collaboration and licensing agreement with Microsoft Corporation, and in September 2007, we entered into a three-year source code license with Microsoft for the general release version of Windows Server 2008. These arrangements include a technology initiative for closer collaboration on terminal services functionality in future 14 Table of Contents server operating systems, continued access to source code for key components of Microsoft’s current server operating systems, and a patent cross-licensing agreement. There can be no assurances that our current licenses with Microsoft will be extended or renewed by Microsoft after their respective expirations. In addition, Microsoft could terminate the current licenses before the expiration of the term for breach or upon a change of control. The early termination or the failure to renew certain of our current licenses with Microsoft in a manner favorable to us could negatively impact the timing of our release of future Application Virtualization products and enhancements. Our investment portfolio has been subject to impairment charges due to the recent financial crisis in the capital markets and may be adversely impacted by further deterioration of the capital markets. Our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2008 primarily consisted of money market funds, agency securities, corporate securities, municipal (including auction rate) securities, commercial paper and government securities. As a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from liquidity and credit concerns. Although we follow an established investment policy and seek to minimize the credit risk associated with investments by investing primarily in investment grade, highly liquid securities and by limiting exposure to any one issuer depending on credit quality, we cannot give assurances that the assets in our investment portfolio will not lose value or become impaired. During 2008, we recorded an unrealized loss related to our $50.0 million face value investment issued by AIG Matched Funding Corporation, or the AIG Capped Floater. This unrealized loss was caused by the liquidity challenges of American International Group, Inc., or AIG, which triggered a downgrade in the credit ratings for AIG’s long-term issues to A- and A3 by two rating agencies on October 3, 2008. If AIG’s financial situation further deteriorates, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the AIG Capped Floater and record an impairment charge for an other-than-temporary decline in the fair market value of this investment. We may be required to record additional impairment charges for other-than-temporary declines in fair market value in our available-for-sale investments, including our investment in the AIG Capped Floater. Future market conditions could lead to additional impairment charges, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market value of our investments, and we could lose some of the principal value of our investment portfolio. A total loss of an investment or a significant decline in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our financial condition. If we lose key personnel or cannot hire enough qualified employees in certain areas of our business, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in large part, upon the services of a number of key employees in certain areas of our business. Except for certain key employees of acquired businesses, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The effective management of our growth, if any, could depend upon our ability to retain our highly-skilled technical, sales and services managerial, finance and marketing personnel in certain areas of our business. If any of those employees leave, we will need to attract and retain replacements for them. We also may need to add key personnel in the future, including in certain key areas of our business. The market for these qualified employees is competitive. We could find it difficult to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel in sufficient numbers. Furthermore, we may hire key personnel in connection with our future acquisitions; however, any of these employees will be able to terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. If we cannot retain and add the necessary staff and resources for these acquired businesses, our ability to develop acquired products, markets and customers could be adversely affected. Also, we may need to hire additional personnel to develop new products, product enhancements and technologies. If we cannot add the necessary staff and resources, our ability to develop future enhancements and features to our existing or future products could be delayed. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to manage our operations and grow revenue, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Historically, the scope of our operations, the number of our employees and the geographic area of our operations and our revenue have grown rapidly. In addition, we have acquired both domestic and international companies. This growth and the assimilation of acquired operations and their employees could continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost-effective way. Our future operating results could also depend on our ability to manage: • our expanding product lines; 15 Table of Contents • our marketing and sales organizations; and • our client support organization to the extent required for any increase in installations of our products. During the past two years, a large portion of our growth has been attributable to the growth of our Application Virtualization products, as well as growth in our Online Services and Application Networking products. We cannot provide any assurance that these markets and the revenues we derive from these markets will continue to grow, especially given the current adverse economic and market conditions that we face. In addition, over the last four years we have grown our force of sales professionals that work closely with partners to sell to primary information technology, or IT, buyers, including Strategic IT Executives, Network Architects, IT Infrastructure Managers, Desktop Operations Managers and Server Operations Managers, to address the multiple selling and buying opportunities presented by our expanded product lines. These and other account penetration efforts are part of our strategy to increase the usage of our Citrix Delivery Center products within our customer’s IT organizations. We cannot provide any assurance that this strategy will be successful or that the release of our application delivery infrastructure products or other new products or services will sustain or increase our revenue growth rate. We may be unable to effectively control our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our profitability. Although we endeavor to effectively control our operating expenses, these expenses, which are based on estimated revenue levels, are relatively fixed in the short term. We cannot assure you that our operating expenses will be lower than our estimated or actual revenues in any given quarter. If we experience a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we likely will not be able to further reduce operating expenses quickly in response. Any significant shortfall in revenue could immediately and adversely affect our results of operations for that quarter. Also, due to the fixed nature of many of our expenses and the challenges for revenue growth in the current environment, our income from operations and cash flows from operating and investing activities could be lower than in recent years. In addition, to the extent our revenue grows, if at all, we believe that our cost of revenues and certain operating expenses could also increase. We believe that we could incur additional costs, including royalties, as we develop, license or buy new technologies or enhancements to our existing products and services. These added costs and royalties could increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses and lower our gross margins. Furthermore, we expect that our effective tax rate may increase due to the taxable income from our recent acquisitions being earned primarily in our geographic locations that are taxed at a higher rate. However, we cannot currently quantify the costs for such transactions that have not yet occurred or of these developing trends in our business. In addition, we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash and investments or issue additional shares of our common stock to fund these additional costs. We recently implemented a restructuring program, which could have a material negative impact on our business. To allow us to operate more efficiently and to drive long-term changes in our cost model, at the end of January 2009, we implemented a restructuring program and reduced our headcount by approximately 500 full-time positions, representing approximately 10% of our global workforce. We expect to incur an aggregate pre-tax charge in the range of approximately $19.0 million to $23.0 million related to our global workforce reduction. We expect to record these charges primarily in the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2009. We also expect to incur cash and non-cash charges related to the consolidation of facilities as part of our restructuring program. Because the details of our facilities consolidation are not yet final, we are unable at this time to estimate the amount of cash and non-cash charges we may incur in connection with our facilities consolidation or the total amount expected to be incurred in connection with our restructuring program. We anticipate completing the majority of the activities related to our restructuring program by the end of 2009. We may incur additional restructuring costs or not realize the expected benefits of these new initiatives. Further, we could experience delays, business disruptions, unanticipated employee turnover and increased litigation related costs in connection with the restructuring and other efficiency improvement activities, and there can be no assurance that our estimates of the savings achievable by the restructuring will be realized. As a result, our restructuring and our related cost reduction activities could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we anticipate at the time of an acquisition. Our growth is dependent upon market growth, our ability to enhance existing products and services, and our ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines and/or technologies. However, acquisitions, including those of high-technology companies, are inherently risky. We cannot provide any assurance that any of our previous acquisitions, including our acquisitions over the past three years, or future acquisitions will be successful in helping us reach our financial and strategic goals either for that acquisition or for us generally or that the combined company resulting from any acquisition will continue to support the growth achieved by the companies separately. 16 Table of Contents The risks we commonly encounter in managing and integrating acquisitions are: • difficulties and delays integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • undetected errors or unauthorized use of a third-party’s code in products of the acquired companies; • the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development; • entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions and which are highly competitive; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • an uncertain sales and earnings stream from the acquired company, which could unexpectedly dilute our earnings. Our failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquired companies due to these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us, which could negatively affect the growth of our business. Our business strategy includes the selective acquisition of businesses and technologies. In the three years ended December 31, 2008, we completed five significant acquisitions, including the acquisition of XenSource in 2007. We plan to continue to seek opportunities to expand our product portfolio, customer base, technology, and technical talent through acquisitions. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. We expect that other companies in our industry will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for businesses and technologies that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have greater resources than we do to complete these acquisitions. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product and core technology, related to our acquisitions. We recorded significant additional goodwill and other intangible asset amounts in connection with the acquisition of XenSource. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we do amortize certain product related technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles and we periodically evaluate them for impairment. We review goodwill for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value, at the reporting unit level (operating segment). As of December 31, 2008, we had $904.5 million of goodwill. Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, impairment testing requires significant judgment, including the identification of reporting units based on our internal reporting structure that reflects the way we manage our business and operations and to which our goodwill and intangible assets would be assigned. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value. We recorded approximately $515.6 million of goodwill and intangible assets in connection with our 2006 Acquisitions, our 2007 Acquisitions and our 2008 Acquisitions. If the actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired intangible assets are less than the projections we used to initially value these intangible assets when we acquired them, then these intangible assets may be deemed to be impaired. If we determine that any of the goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our recent acquisitions are impaired, then we would be required to reduce the value of those assets or to write them off completely by taking a related charge to earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of those assets, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially adversely affected. At December 31, 2008, we had $270.2 million, net, of unamortized intangibles, which include product related technology we purchased in acquisitions or under third-party licenses. These intangibles are primarily associated with our Application Networking products and Server Virtualization products. However, our channel distributors and entities with which we have technology relationships, customers or prospective customers may not purchase or widely accept our new products. If we fail to complete the development of our anticipated future product and service offerings, including product offerings acquired through our acquisitions, if 17 Table of Contents we fail to complete them in a timely manner, or if we are unsuccessful in selling any new lines of products, appliances and services, we could determine that the value of the purchased technology is impaired in whole or in part and take a charge to earnings. We could also incur additional charges in later periods to reflect costs associated with completing those projects that could not be completed in a timely manner. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If the actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired product and core technologies are less than the projections we used to initially value product and core technologies when we acquired it, such intangible assets may be deemed to be impaired. If we determine that any of our intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to take a related charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to expand and diversify our distribution channels. We currently intend to continue to expand our distribution channels by leveraging our relationships with independent hardware and software vendors and system integrators to encourage them to recommend or distribute our products. In addition, an integral part of our strategy is to diversify our base of channel relationships by adding and training more channel members with abilities to reach larger enterprise customers and to sell our newer products. This strategy will require additional resources, as we will need to expand our internal sales and service coverage of these customers. If we fail in these efforts and cannot expand, train or diversify our distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. In addition to this diversification of our base, we will need to maintain a healthy mix of channel members who cater to smaller customers. We may need to add and remove distribution members to maintain customer satisfaction and a steady adoption rate of our products, which could increase our operating expenses. Through our Citrix Partner Network, Citrix Authorized Learning Centers and other programs, we are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could reduce our profits. We could change our licensing programs or subscription renewal programs, which could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue. We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future products and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including offering specified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. Such changes could result in deferring revenue recognition until the specified enhancement is delivered or at the end of the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software product. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period. Changes to our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including the timing of the release of enhancements, upgrades, and maintenance releases, the term of the contract, discounts and other factors, could impact the timing of the recognition of revenue for our products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Sales of our Subscription Advantage product constitute substantially all of our License Updates revenue and a large portion of our deferred revenue. We anticipate that sales of our Subscription Advantage product will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our License Updates revenue. Our ability to continue to generate both recognized and deferred revenue from our Subscription Advantage product will depend on our customers continuing to perceive value in automatic delivery of our software upgrades and enhancements. A decrease in demand for our Subscription Advantage product could occur as a result of a decrease in demand for our Application Virtualization, Application Networking, Server Virtualization and Application Performance Monitoring products. If our customers do not continue to purchase our Subscription Advantage product, our License Updates revenue and deferred revenue would decrease significantly and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. As our international sales and operations grow, we could become increasingly subject to additional risks that could harm our business. We conduct significant sales and customer support, development and engineering operations in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 45.8% of our revenues from sales other than the United States. Our continued growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. To successfully expand international sales, we must establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could cause fluctuations in the results of our international operations. These risks include: • compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements; • variability of foreign economic, political and labor conditions; • changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by U.S. export laws; 18 Table of Contents • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and • as we generate cash flow in non-U.S. jurisdictions, if required, we may experience difficulty transferring such funds to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner. Our results of operations are also subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to minimize the impact on our operating results, we generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses. When the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher, and these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gains realized from our hedging contracts. If the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower. These lower expenses will in turn be partially offset by the losses incurred from our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the one year timeframe for which we hedge our risk. Due to the generally stronger dollar in 2008 when compared to 2007, our operating expenses benefited when converted to U.S. dollars, which was partially offset by lower gains produced by our hedging programs. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot guarantee that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or operating results. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or our exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our operating results and financial condition. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, the geographic mix of our revenue, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance, however, that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have credit exposure to our hedging counterparties. In order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the U.S. dollar, we use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies as we deem appropriate for a portion of our expenses which are denominated in the local currency of our foreign subsidiaries. As a result of entering into these contracts with counterparties who are unrelated to us, the risk of a counterparty default exists in fulfilling the hedge contract. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be exposed to the net losses on the original hedge contracts or be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions. Our proprietary rights could offer only limited protection. Our products, including products obtained through acquisitions, could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in material costs. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be successful. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, trade name, patent or copyright could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite our precautions, it could be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer certain portions of our products or to otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Any patents owned by us could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all, and if issued, may not provide any meaningful protection or competitive advantage. In addition, our ability to protect our proprietary rights could be affected by: • Differences in International Law; Enforceability of Licenses: The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, we derive a significant portion of our sales from licensing our packaged products under “shrink wrap” or “click-to-accept” license agreements that are not signed by licensees and electronic enterprise customer licensing arrangements that are delivered electronically, all of which could be unenforceable under the laws of many foreign jurisdictions in which we license our products. 19 Table of Contents • Third-Party Infringement Claims: We may become increasingly subject to infringement claims and claims alleging the unauthorized use of a third-party’s code in our products. This may occur for a variety of reasons, including the expansion of our product lines, such as our Application Networking products and our Online Services division products, through product development and acquisitions, including our acquisition of XenSource in 2007, and the increase in the number of competitors in our industry segments and the resulting increase in the number of related products and the overlap in the functionality of those products, and the unauthorized use of third-party’s code in our product development process. Companies and inventors are more frequently seeking to patent software despite recent developments in the law that may discourage or invalidate such patents. As a result, we could receive more patent infringement claims. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could result in costly litigation or injunctive relief or require us to obtain a license to intellectual property rights of those third parties. Licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, on terms compatible with the protection of our proprietary rights, or at all. In addition, attention to these claims could divert our management’s time and attention from developing our business. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology or negotiate a suitable settlement arrangement, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. See Part I, Item 3 entitled “Legal Proceedings” for information concerning pending patent infringement cases in which we are involved. Our use of “open source” software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. The products or technologies acquired, licensed or developed by us may incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software into other products in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, including, for example, the GNU General Public License, the GNU Lesser General Public License, “Apache-style” licenses, “Berkeley Software Distribution,” “BSD-style” licenses, and other open source licenses. We monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use such that we have not triggered any of these conditions, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of these types of licenses. As a result, the potential impact of these terms on our business may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our products and technologies, such as requirements that we offer our products that use the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software, and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations. If our defenses were not successful, we could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the distribution of our products that contained the open source software, and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our products. In addition, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, under some open source licenses we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software, which could substantially help our competitors develop products that are similar to or better than ours. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or assurance of title or controls on the origin of the software. If open source software programmers, many of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance the open source Xen hypervisor, we may be unable to develop new XenServer products, adequately enhance our existing XenServer products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price of these Xen products. We rely to a significant degree on an informal community of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor. A relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the Xen hypervisor, which is the heart of the XenServer virtualization product. If these programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor or we would need to develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor with our own resources. We cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. In either event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. Moreover, if third-party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor, the development and adoption of this virtual server technology could be stifled and our products, including XenServer, could become less competitive. Delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with our strategic and technology relationships. Our business depends on strategic and technology relationships. We cannot assure you that those relationships will continue in the future. In addition to our relationship with Microsoft, we rely on strategic or technology relationships with such companies as Intel Corporation, Dell Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corporation, SAP and others. We depend on the entities with which we have strategic or technology relationships to successfully test our products, to incorporate our technology into their products and to market and sell those products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current strategic and technology relationships or to develop additional strategic and technology relationships. If any entities in which we have a strategic or technology relationship are unable to incorporate our technology into their products or to market or sell those products, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we lose access to third-party licenses, releases of our products could be delayed. We believe that we will continue to rely, in part, on third-party licenses to enhance and differentiate our products. Third-party licensing arrangements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • undetected errors or unauthorized use of another person’s code in the third party’s software; • disagreement over the scope of the license and other key terms, such as royalties payable; • infringement actions brought by third-party licensees; and • termination or expiration of the license. If we lose or are unable to maintain any of these third-party licenses or are required to modify software obtained under third-party licenses, it could delay the release of our products. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain and further penetrate large enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and penetrate large enterprise customers by adding effective channel distributors and expanding our consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact our revenues. By granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period. Additionally, as we attempt to attract and penetrate large enterprise customers, we may need to increase corporate branding and marketing activities, which could increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits. Issues arising during the upgrade of our enterprise resource planning system could affect our operating results and ability to manage our business effectively. We are in the process of upgrading our SAP enterprise resource planning, or ERP, computer system to enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business operations. The upgrade could cause substantial business interruption that could adversely impact our operating results.We are investing significant financial and personnel resources into this project. However, there is no assurance that the design will meet our current and future business needs or that it will operate as designed. We are heavily dependent on such computer systems, and any significant failure or delay in the system upgrade, if encountered, would cause a substantial interruption to our business and additional expense which could result in an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our success may depend on our ability to attract and retain small-sized customers. In order to successfully attract new customer segments to our XenApp products and expand our existing relationships with enterprise customers, we must reach and retain small-sized customers and small project initiatives within our larger enterprise customers. We cannot guarantee that our small-sized customer marketing initiative or new product will be successful. Our failure to attract and retain small sized customers and small project initiatives within our larger enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as we attempt to attract and retain small 21 Table of Contents sized customers and small project initiatives within our larger enterprise customers, we may need to increase corporate branding and broaden our marketing activities, which could increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits. We rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that we do not control. We rely significantly on independent distributors and resellers to market and distribute our products and appliances. For instance, one distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted for 12% of our net revenues in 2008. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with our subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries or regions. Moreover, no reseller accounted for over 10% of our total net revenues in 2008. We do not control our distributors and resellers. Additionally, our distributors and resellers are not obligated to buy our products and could also represent other lines of products. We maintain and periodically revise our sales incentive programs for our independent distributors and resellers, and such program revisions may adversely impact our results of operations. Some of our distributors and resellers maintain inventories of our packaged products for resale to smaller end-users. If distributors and resellers reduce their inventory of our packaged products, our business could be adversely affected. Further, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. The financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and distributors could significantly delay or default on their payment obligations. Any significant delays, defaults or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For certain of our products we rely on third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations. We rely on a number of third-party suppliers, who provide hardware or hardware components for our products, and contract manufacturers. For example, the production, final test, warehousing and shipping for our Application Networking products, including our NetScaler products, Access Gateway products and Citrix Repeater appliance products are primarily performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. We do not typically have long-term supply agreements with our suppliers; and, in most cases, we purchase the products and components on an as-needed purchase order basis. In some instances, such as with respect to our Application Networking products, we maintain internal manufacturing capabilities to supplement third-party contract manufacturers and provide us with the flexibility needed to meet our product delivery requirements on sales orders on a limited basis. While we have not, to date, experienced any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products, our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. Our reliance on these third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including: • our suppliers, especially new suppliers, may make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy of our products or cause delays in shipment; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components and products to us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. There may be delay associated with establishing additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for components that are available only from limited sources. Any interruption or delay in the supply of products or components, or our inability to obtain products or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products and may not be detected until after our products are shipped. Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third- party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers. 22 Table of Contents We have entered into a credit facility agreement that restricts our ability to conduct our business and failure to comply with such agreement may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position. We, along with our subsidiary, Citrix Systems International GmbH, maintain a credit facility agreement that contains financial covenants tied to a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage, among other things. The credit facility agreement also contains affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations related to our ability to incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, conduct certain mergers or acquisitions, make certain investments and loans, alter our capital structure, sell stock or assets and pay dividends. If we fail to comply with these covenants or any other provision of the credit facility agreement, we may be in default under the credit facility agreement, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments of such default. Upon an event of default under our credit facility agreement not otherwise amended or waived, the affected lenders could accelerate the repayment of any outstanding principal and accrued interest on their outstanding loans and terminate their commitments to lend additional funds, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our Online Services division customers’ data, our services may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our service. Use of our GoToMyPC, GoToMeeting, GoToAssist or GoToWebinar services involves the storage and transmission of customers’ business and personally identifiable information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to one of our online customers’ personally identifiable data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If any compromises of security were to occur, it could have the effect of substantially reducing the use of the Web for commerce and communications. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate credit card and other payment information, personally identifiable customer information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. Fines and liabilities can be significant for breaches of payment card data. In the case of an actual breach of payment card data, we could incur potential fines at the discretion of the credit card companies. These fines could include penalties for all compromised account numbers, the costs of any additional fraud detection activities required by the card associations, costs incurred by credit card issuers associated with the compromise and additional monitoring of systems for further fraudulent activity. A large breach of payment card data could also put our ability to process credit card payments at risk. Computer viruses, software programs that disable or impair computers, have been and continue to be distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems or those of our vendors, which could disrupt our network or make it inaccessible to our Online Services division customers. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers for our Online Services division, and in the case of an actual breach we could incur fines and other penalties under privacy and data protection laws, which would significantly adversely affect our financial condition and the operating results for our Online Services division. Evolving regulation of the Web may adversely affect our Online Services division. As Web commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information. Additional regulation could impact our business through increased costs and restrictions on our ability to process and secure customer data. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Web or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Web may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Web use or restricting information exchange over the Web could result in a decline in the use of the Web and the viability of Web-based services, which would significantly adversely affect our financial condition and the operating results for our Online Services division. Regulation of our Audio Services Group’s conferencing business may adversely affect our Online Services division. In October 2008, our Online Services division acquired Vapps, Inc., a VoIP-based audio services company, to form our Audio Services Group. We anticipate that the products and services offered by the Audio Services Group will be subject to various regulatory requirements established by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC. FCC regulation may delay or hinder our ability to provide our planned services and products. The telecommunications industry is highly regulated in the U. S. at the federal, state and local levels. Various international authorities may also seek to regulate the products and services provided or to be provided by our Audio Services Group. The FCC and state regulatory authorities may address regulatory non-compliance with a variety of 23 Table of Contents enforcement mechanisms, including fines, refund orders, injunctive relief, license conditions, and/or license revocation. The regulation of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly, and the regulatory environment varies substantially from state to state. There can be no assurance that future regulatory, judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on the business, and results of operations of our Online Services division. Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes that result in a disruption of our operations could negatively impact our results of operations. Our worldwide operations are dependent on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and Website. Significant portions of our computer equipment, intellectual property resources and personnel, including critical resources dedicated to research and development and administrative support functions are presently located at our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, an area of the country that is particularly prone to hurricanes, and at our various locations in California, an area of the country that is particularly prone to earthquakes. We also have operations in various domestic and international locations that expose us to additional diverse risks. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, at any of the locations in which we do business, could cause interruptions in our operations. For example, hurricanes have passed through southern Florida causing extensive damage to the region. In addition, even in the absence of direct damage to our operations, large disasters, terrorist attacks or other casualty events could have a significant impact on our partners’ and customers’ businesses, which in turn could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, or our partners’ or customers’ businesses, due to natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to fund our product development and acquisitions and fulfill our future obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our operations and product development, including the payment of cash consideration in acquisitions and the payment of our other obligations, depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to liquidate our investments, repatriate cash and investments held in our overseas subsidiaries, sell assets or raise equity or debt financings when needed or desirable. An inability to fund our operations or fulfill outstanding obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information, please refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If stock balancing returns or price adjustments exceed our reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. We provide most of our distributors with stock balancing return rights, which generally permit our distributors to return products to us by the forty-fifth day of a fiscal quarter, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of our products prior to the last day of the same fiscal quarter. We also provide price protection rights to most of our distributors. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors if we lower our prices for those products within a specified time period. To cover our exposure to these product returns and price adjustments, we establish reserves based on our evaluation of historical product trends and current marketing plans. However, we cannot assure you that our reserves will be sufficient to cover our future product returns and price adjustments. If we inadequately forecast reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our stock price could be volatile, particularly given the global economic downturn and volatility in domestic and international stock markets, and you could lose the value of your investment. Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; • analyst reports or recommendations; • changes in interest rates; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market in general, The NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or 24 Table of Contents disproportionate to operating performance. These forces reached unprecedented levels in the second half of 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions and a material decline in economic conditions. In particular, the U.S. equity markets experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. During 2008, our stock price has experienced volatility, with the closing price of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market having ranged from $19.54 on October 7, 2008 to $38.47 on January 3, 2008. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards related to business combinations may have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations. In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued SFAS, No. 141R, Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141R will require, among other things, the expensing of direct transaction costs, including deal costs and restructuring costs as incurred and acquired in-process research and development, or IPR&D, assets to be capitalized, certain contingent assets and liabilities to be recognized at fair value, and arrangements related to contingent merger consideration may be required to be measured at fair value until settled, with changes in fair value recognized each period into earnings. The adoption of SFAS No. 141R is effective on a prospective basis for transactions occurring in 2009, and earlier adoption is not permitted. Historically, we have been acquisitive and if we continue to be so, SFAS No 141R could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows if we enter into any material business combinations after the standard’s effective date. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our net revenues have fluctuated quarterly and have generally been the highest in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced level of economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues. Quarterly results are also affected by the timing of the release of new products and services. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter, especially our fourth quarter, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Funds from certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible within 12 months. As of December 31, 2008, we had an aggregate par value of $45.5 million of investments in municipal auction rate securities whose underlying assets are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. The market for municipal auction rate securities held in our portfolio began experiencing auction failures on February 13, 2008, and there have been no successful auctions for the securities held in our portfolio since the failures began. In November 2008, we formally accepted the terms of a settlement from UBS Financial Services, Inc., or UBS. Upon accepting the terms of the settlement, we received an enforceable, non-transferrable right, or Put Option, that would enable us to sell our auction rate securities back to UBS during the period between June 30, 2010 and July 2, 2012 at par value. We cannot provide any assurance, however, that UBS will have adequate financial resources to fulfill its obligation to us upon our exercise of the Put Option. Based on our available cash and other investments, however, we do not currently anticipate that the lack of liquidity caused by failed auctions related to these securities will have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows or will affect our ability to operate our business as usual. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2008 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 