ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees contain “forward-looking” information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to statements concerning new products, product development and offerings, Application Networking, Application Virtualization, Subscription Advantage, XenApp (formerly Presentation Server), NetScaler, XenServer and XenDesktop, Citrix Ready, WANscaler and Access Gateway, our Partner Network historical stock option granting practices and related restatements, stockholder derivative actions, cash and non-cash charges, contingent liabilities related to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, product and price competition, auction rate securities our Online Services division, competition and strategy, customer diversification, employees, suppliers, product price and inventory, contingent consideration payments, deferred revenues, economic and political market conditions, potential government regulation, seasonal factors, natural disasters, stock-based compensation, licensing and subscription renewal programs, international operations and expansion, revenue recognition, profits, growth of revenues, composition of revenues, cost of revenues, operating expenses, sales and sales cycle, marketing and support expenses, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses, valuations of investments and derivative instruments, technology relationships, reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings, gross margins, amortization expense, goodwill and intangible assets, interest income, interest expense, impairment charges, anticipated operating and capital expenditure requirements, cash inflows, contractual obligations, our Credit Facility and Term Loan, in-process research and development, advertising campaigns, tax rates and deductions, SFAS 123R, leasing and subleasing activities, acquisitions, stock repurchases, investment transactions, liquidity, litigation matters, intellectual property matters, distribution channels, stock price, payment of dividends, Advisor Rewards Program, Microsoft agreements; price protection rights, proprietary technology, security measures, third party licenses, and potential debt or equity financings constitute forward-looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and could in the future vary materially from those stated in any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which only speak as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made. 10 Table of Contents The virtualization products and services we acquired in connection with our acquisition of XenSource are based on an emerging technology, and therefore the potential market for this line of products and services remains uncertain. We acquired XenSource in October 2007 to enter the server and desktop virtualization markets. The virtualization products and services that we acquired as part of this acquisition are based on an emerging technology platform the success of which will depend on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with adopting server and desktop virtualization solutions. The limited operating history of XenSource prior to our acquisition and the relatively limited extent to which server and desktop virtualization solutions have been adopted may make it difficult to evaluate this technology’s impact on our business because the potential market for these products and services remains uncertain. To the extent that the server and desktop virtualization market develops more slowly or less comprehensively than we expect, the revenue growth associated with virtualization products and services may be slower than currently expected, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The benefits we anticipate from acquiring XenSource may not be realized. We acquired XenSource with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits including, among other things, enhanced revenue and profits, greater market presence and development, and enhancements to our product portfolio and customer base. We expect that the acquisition will move us into adjacent server and desktop virtualization markets that will allow us to extend our leadership in the broader Application Delivery Infrastructure market by adding key enabling technologies that make the end-to-end computing environment more flexible, dynamic and responsive to business change. We may not realize any of these benefits. In addition, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of XenSource as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by our management and certain financial or industry analysts, and others may not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as we do. For example, XenSource’s contribution to our financial results may not meet the current expectations of our management for a number of reasons, including the integration risks described above, and could dilute our profits beyond the current expectations of our management. Operations and costs incurred and potential liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisition of XenSource also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If these risks materialize, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market. The demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past, adverse economic conditions decreased demand for our products and negatively impacted our financial results. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain. If an unfavorable information technology spending environment develops, it could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our long sales cycle for enterprise-wide sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. In recent quarters, a growing number of our large and medium-sized customers have decided to implement our enterprise customer license arrangements on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. Our long sales cycle for these large-scale deployments makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. We have a long sales cycle for these enterprise-wide sales because: • our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale; • our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; • our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and • before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. 11 Table of Contents The continued long sales cycle for these large-scale deployment sales could make it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. We face intense competition, which could result in fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We sell our products in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. For example, our ability to market our Application Virtualization products, including XenApp, Access Essentials, Password Manager and other future product offerings and upgrades, could be affected by Microsoft’s licensing and pricing scheme for client devices, servers and applications. Further, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new Windows-based server operating systems or products incorporating similar features to our products could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product and service offerings. In addition, alternative products for application delivery directly and indirectly compete with our current product lines and our online services. Existing or new products and services that provide alternatives to our products and services, including those relating to application virtualization, server and desktop virtualization Web application optimization, application performance monitoring, branch office application delivery and WAN optimization, virtual desktop delivery, secure sockets layers/virtual private network, gateways, on-demand assistance, online collaboration and IP telephony, can materially impact our ability to compete in these markets. Our current competitors in these markets include Adobe Systems, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., F5 Networks, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, IBM Corporation, Juniper Networks, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Riverbed Technology, Inc., Sun Microsystems, Inc., VMware, Inc. and Virtual Iron Software, Inc. As the markets for our products and services continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer appliances, software and networking industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Sales of products within our Application Virtualization product line constitute a majority of our revenue and decreases in demand for our Application Virtualization products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We anticipate that sales of products within our Application Virtualization product line and related enhancements and upgrades will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to continue to generate revenue from our Application Virtualization products will depend on market acceptance of Windows Server Operating Systems and/or UNIX Operating Systems. Declines and variability in demand for our Application Virtualization products could occur as a result of: • new competitive product releases and updates to existing products; • termination of our product offerings and enhancements; • potential market saturation; • technological change; • general economic conditions; or • lack of success of entities with which we have a technology relationship. If our customers do not continue to purchase our Application Virtualization products as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, modification or termination of certain of our Application Virtualization products may cause variability in our revenue and make it difficult to predict our revenue growth and trends in our Application Virtualization products as our customers adjust their purchasing decisions in response to such events. If we do not develop new products and services or enhancements to our existing products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are characterized by: • rapid technological change; • evolving industry standards; • fluctuations in customer demand; 12 Table of Contents • changes in customer requirements; and • frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and services and develop and introduce new products and services that our customers choose to buy. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments and customer demands by introducing new products and services and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by: • delays in our introduction of new products and services; • delays in market acceptance of new products and services or new releases of our current products and services; and • our, or a competitor’s, announcement of new product or service enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product and service offerings. For example, we cannot guarantee that our Citrix Delivery Center and Online Services products will achieve the broad market acceptance by our channel partners and entities with which we have a technology relationship, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products and services or new releases of our current products and services, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that we could incur additional costs and royalties as we develop, license or buy new technologies or enhancements to our existing products. These added costs and royalties could increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses. However, we cannot currently quantify the costs for such transactions that have not yet occurred. In addition, we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash and investments to fund these additional costs. Our business could be adversely impacted by a failure to renew our agreements with Microsoft for source code access. In December 2004, we entered into a five-year technology collaboration and licensing agreement with Microsoft Corporation and in September 2007, we entered into a three-year source code license with Microsoft for the general release version of Windows Server 2008. These arrangements include a technology initiative for closer collaboration on terminal server functionality in future server operating systems, continued access to source code for key components of Microsoft’s current server operating systems, and a patent cross-licensing agreement. There can be no assurances that our current licenses with Microsoft will be extended or renewed by Microsoft after their respective expirations. In addition, Microsoft could terminate the current licenses before the expiration of the term for breach or upon a change of control. The early termination or the failure to renew certain of our current licenses with Microsoft in a manner favorable to us could negatively impact the timing of our release of future products and enhancements. If we lose key personnel or cannot hire enough qualified employees, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in large part, upon the services of a number of key employees. Except for certain key employees of acquired businesses, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The effective management of our growth, if any, could depend upon our ability to retain our highly-skilled technical, sales and services managerial, finance and marketing personnel. If any of those employees leave, we will need to attract and retain replacements for them. We also need to add key personnel in the future. The market for these qualified employees is competitive. We could find it difficult to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel in sufficient numbers. Furthermore, we may hire key personnel in connection with our future acquisitions; however, any of these employees will be able to terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. If we cannot retain and add the necessary staff and resources for these acquired businesses, our ability to develop acquired products, markets and customers could be adversely affected. Also, we may need to hire additional personnel to develop new products, product enhancements and technologies. If we cannot add the necessary staff and resources, our ability to develop future enhancements and features to our existing or future products could be delayed. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to manage our operations and grow revenue or fail to continue to effectively control expenses, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Historically, the scope of our operations, the number of our employees and the geographic area of our operations and our revenue have grown rapidly. In addition, we have acquired both domestic and international companies. This growth and the assimilation of acquired operations and their employees could continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage our current growth and any future growth effectively, we need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost-effective way. Our future operating results could also depend on our ability to manage: • our expanding product lines; 13 Table of Contents • our marketing and sales organizations; and • our client support organization as installations of our products increase. In addition, to the extent our revenue grows, if at all, we believe that our cost of revenues and certain operating expenses could also increase. We believe that we could incur additional costs, including royalties, as we develop, license or buy new technologies or enhancements to our existing products and services. These added costs and royalties could increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses and lower our gross margins. For example, due to our recent acquisitions and the anticipated growth of the acquired companies, we currently expect that our future revenue will include a greater level of revenue from appliance sales as compared to our historical level of appliance sales, which we expect will reduce our gross margins from their historical levels. Furthermore, as our income from the recent acquisitions increases, we expect that our effective tax rate may increase due to the taxable income from these acquisitions being earned primarily in our geographic locations that are taxed at a higher rate. However, we cannot currently quantify the costs for such transactions that have not yet occurred or of these developing trends in our business. In addition, we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash and investments or issue additional shares of our common stock to fund these additional costs. During the past two years, a large portion of our growth has been attributable to the growth of our Application Virtualization products, as well as growth in our Online Services and Application Networking products. We cannot provide any assurance that these markets and the revenues we derive from these markets will continue to grow. In addition, over the last four years we have grown our force of sales professionals that work closely with partners to sell to primary IT buyers, including Strategic IT Executives, Network Architects, IT Infrastructure Managers and Desktop Operations Managers, to address the multiple selling and buying opportunities presented by our expanded product lines. These and other account penetration efforts are part of our strategy to increase the usage of our Citrix Delivery Center products within our customer’s IT organizations. We cannot provide any assurance that this strategy will be successful or that the release of our application delivery infrastructure products or other new products or services will increase our revenue growth rate. We cannot assure you that our operating expenses will be lower than our estimated or actual revenues in any given quarter. If we experience a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we likely will not be able to further reduce operating expenses quickly in response. Any significant shortfall in revenue could immediately and adversely affect our results of operations for that quarter. Also, due to the fixed nature of many of our expenses and our current expectation for revenue growth, our income from operations and cash flows from operating and investing activities could be lower than in recent years. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we anticipate at the time of an acquisition. Our growth is dependent upon market growth, our ability to enhance existing products and services, and our ability to introduce new products and services on a timely basis. We intend to continue to address the need to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services through acquisitions of other companies, product lines and/or technologies. However, acquisitions, including those of high-technology companies, are inherently risky. We cannot provide any assurance that any of our previous acquisitions, including our acquisitions over the past three years, or future acquisitions will be successful in helping us reach our financial and strategic goals either for that acquisition or for us generally or that the combined company resulting from any acquisition will continue to support the growth achieved by the companies separately. The risks we commonly encounter in managing and integrating acquisitions are: • difficulties and delays integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • undetected errors or unauthorized use of a third-party’s code in products of the acquired companies; • the diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-process research and development; • entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions and which are highly competitive; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and • an uncertain sales and earnings stream from the acquired company, which could unexpectedly dilute our earnings. Our failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquired companies due to these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us, which could negatively affect the growth of our business. Our business strategy includes the selective acquisition of businesses and technologies. In the three years ended December 31, 2007, we completed six significant acquisitions, including the acquisition of XenSource, Inc. in 2007 and NetScaler, Inc. in 2005. We plan to continue to seek opportunities to expand our product portfolio, customer base, technology, and technical talent through acquisitions. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. We expect that other companies in our industry will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for businesses and technologies that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have greater resources than we do to complete these acquisitions. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product and core technology, related to our acquisitions. We recorded significant additional goodwill and other intangible asset amounts in connection with the acquisition of XenSource. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we do amortize certain product and core technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles. We periodically evaluate our intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment). As of December 31, 2007, we had $888.5 million of goodwill, of which approximately $43.7 million of goodwill was recorded in connection with our acquisitions of Reflectent Software, Inc., or Reflectent, and Orbital Data Corporation, or Orbital Data, in 2006 (we refer to these acquisitions as our 2006 Acquisitions), and $257.5 million of goodwill was recorded in connection with our acquisitions of XenSource and Ardence Delaware, Inc. or Ardence, in 2007 (we refer to these acquisitions as our 2007 Acquisitions). We review for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value. Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, impairment testing requires significant judgment, including the identification of reporting units based on our internal reporting structure that reflects the way we manage our business and operations and to which our goodwill and intangible assets would be assigned. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value. We recorded approximately $490.7 million of goodwill and intangible assets in connection with our 2006 Acquisitions and our 2007 Acquisitions. If the actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired intangible assets are less than the projections we used to initially value these intangible assets when we acquired them, then these intangible assets may be deemed to be impaired. If we determine that any of the goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our recent acquisitions are impaired, then we would be required to reduce the value of those assets or to write them off completely by taking a related charge to earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of those assets, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially adversely affected. At December 31, 2007, we had $276.3 million, net, of unamortized identified intangibles, which include core and product technology we purchased in acquisitions or under third party licenses. These intangibles are primarily associated with our Application Networking products and Server Virtualization products. However, our channel distributors and entities with which we have technology relationships, customers or prospective customers may not purchase or widely accept our new products. If we fail to complete the development of our anticipated future product and service offerings, including product offerings acquired through our acquisitions, if we fail to complete them in a timely manner, or if we are unsuccessful in selling any new lines of products, appliances and services, we could determine that the value of the purchased technology is impaired in whole or in part and take a charge to earnings. We could also incur additional charges in later periods to reflect costs associated with completing those projects that could not be completed in a timely manner. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If the actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired product and core technologies are less than the projections we used to initially value product and core technologies when we acquired it, such intangible assets may be deemed to be impaired. If we determine that any of our intangible assets are impaired, we would be required to take a related charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to expand and diversify our distribution channels. We currently intend to continue to expand our distribution channels by leveraging our relationships with independent hardware and software vendors and system integrators to encourage them to recommend or distribute our products. In addition, an integral part 15 Table of Contents of our strategy is to diversify our base of channel relationships by adding and training more channel members with abilities to reach larger enterprise customers and to sell our newer products. This strategy will require additional resources, as we will need to expand our internal sales and service coverage of these customers. If we fail in these efforts and cannot expand, train or diversify our distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. In addition to this diversification of our base, we will need to maintain a healthy mix of channel members who cater to smaller customers. We may need to add and remove distribution members to maintain customer satisfaction and a steady adoption rate of our products, which could increase our operating expenses. Through our Citrix Partner Network, Citrix Authorized Learning Centers and other programs, we are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could reduce our profits. We could change our licensing programs or subscription renewal programs, which could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue. We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future products and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including offering specified and unspecified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. Such changes could result in recognizing revenues over the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software product. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period. Changes to our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including the timing of the release of enhancements, upgrades, and maintenance releases, the term of the contract, discounts and other factors, could impact the timing of the recognition of revenue for our products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Sales of our Subscription Advantage product constitute substantially all of our License Updates revenue and a large portion of our deferred revenue. We anticipate that sales of our Subscription Advantage product will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our License Updates revenue. Our ability to continue to generate both recognized and deferred revenue from our Subscription Advantage product will depend on our customers continuing to perceive value in automatic delivery of our software upgrades and enhancements. A decrease in demand for our Subscription Advantage product could occur as a result of a decrease in demand for our Application Virtualization, Application Networking, Server Virtualization and Application Performance Monitoring products. If our customers do not continue to purchase our Subscription Advantage product, our License Updates revenue and deferred revenue would decrease significantly and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. As our international sales and operations grow, we could become increasingly subject to additional risks that could harm our business. We conduct significant sales and customer support, development and engineering operations in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 44.5% of our revenues from sales other than the United States. Our continued growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. To successfully expand international sales, we must establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could cause fluctuations in the results of our international operations. These risks include: • compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements; • variability of foreign economic, political and labor conditions; • changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by United States export laws; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and • as we generate cash flow in non-U.S. jurisdictions, if required, we may experience difficulty transferring such funds to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner. Our results of operations are also subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to minimize the impact on our operating results, we generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses. When the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher, and these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gains realized from our hedging contracts. If the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower. These lower expenses will in turn be partially offset by the losses incurred from our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the one year timeframe for which we hedge our risk. Due to the generally weaker dollar in 2007, our operating expenses benefited from gains produced by our hedging programs as compared to 2006. 16 Table of Contents Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot guarantee that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or operating results. Our proprietary rights could offer only limited protection. Our products, including products obtained through acquisitions, could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in material costs. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be successful. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, trade name, patent or copyright could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite our precautions, it could be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer certain portions of our products or to otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Any patents owned by us could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all, and if issued, may not provide any meaningful protection or competitive advantage. In addition, our ability to protect our proprietary rights could be affected by: • Differences in International Law; Enforceability of Licenses: The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, we derive a significant portion of our sales from licensing our packaged products under “shrink wrap” or “click-to-accept” license agreements that are not signed by licensees and electronic enterprise customer licensing arrangements that are delivered electronically, all of which could be unenforceable under the laws of many foreign jurisdictions in which we license our products. • Third Party Infringement Claims: We may become increasingly subject to infringement claims and claims alleging the unauthorized use of a third-party’s code in our products including the unauthorized use of open source code that may impose unwanted obligations on us. This may occur for a variety of reasons, including the expansion of our product lines, such as our Application Networking products and our Online Services division products, through product development and acquisitions, including our acquisition of XenSource in 2007, and the increase in the number of competitors in our industry segments and the resulting increase in the number of related products and the overlap in the functionality of those products, and the unauthorized use of third-party’s code in our product development process. Companies and inventors are more frequently seeking to patent software and business methods because of developments in the law that could extend the ability to obtain such patents. As a result, we could receive more patent infringement claims. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could result in costly litigation or injunctive relief or require us to obtain a license to intellectual property rights of those third parties. Licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, on terms compatible with the protection of our proprietary rights, or at all. In addition, attention to these claims could divert our management’s time and attention from developing our business. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology or negotiate a suitable settlement arrangement, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If open source software programmers, many of whom we do not employ, do not continue to develop and enhance the open source Xen hypervisor, we may be unable to develop new XenServer products, adequately enhance our existing XenServer products or meet customer requirements for innovation, quality and price of these Xen products. We rely to a significant degree on an informal community of independent open source software programmers to develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor. A relatively small group of software engineers, many of whom are not employed by us, are primarily responsible for the development and evolution of the Xen hypervisor, which is the heart of the XenServer virtualization product. If these programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance open source technologies, we would have to rely on other parties to develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor or we would need to develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor with our own resources. We cannot predict whether further developments and enhancements to these technologies would be available from reliable alternative sources. In either event, our development expenses could be increased and our product release and upgrade schedules could be delayed. Moreover, if third party software programmers fail to adequately further develop and enhance the Xen hypervisor, the development and adoption of this virtual server technology could be stifled and our products, including XenServer, could become less competitive. Delays in developing, completing or shipping new or enhanced products could result in delayed or reduced revenue for those products and could also adversely affect customer acceptance of those offerings. We are subject to risks associated with our strategic and technology relationships. Our business depends on strategic and technology relationships. We cannot assure you that those relationships will continue in the future. In addition to our relationship with Microsoft, we rely on strategic or technology relationships with such companies as Dell Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corporation, SAP and others. We depend on the entities with which we have strategic or technology relationships to successfully test our products, to incorporate our technology into 17 Table of Contents their products and to market and sell those products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current strategic and technology relationships or to develop additional strategic and technology relationships. If any entities in which we have a strategic or technology relationship are unable to incorporate our technology into their products or to market or sell those products, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we lose access to third party licenses, releases of our products could be delayed. We believe that we will continue to rely, in part, on third party licenses to enhance and differentiate our products. Third party licensing arrangements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • undetected errors or unauthorized use of another person’s code in the third party’s software; • disagreement over the scope of the license and other key terms, such as royalties payable; • infringement actions brought by third party licensees; and • termination or expiration of the license. If we lose or are unable to maintain any of these third party licenses or are required to modify software obtained under third party licenses, it could delay the release of our products. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain and further penetrate large enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and penetrate large enterprise customers by adding effective channel distributors and expanding our consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact our revenues. By granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period. Additionally, as we attempt to attract and penetrate large enterprise customers, we may need to increase corporate branding and marketing activities, which could increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits. Our success may depend on our ability to attract and retain small-sized customers. In order to successfully attract new customer segments to our XenApp products and expand our existing relationships with enterprise customers, we must reach and retain small-sized customers and small project initiatives within our larger enterprise customers. We have begun a marketing initiative to reach these customers that includes extending our Advisor Rewards program to include a broader range of license types. In 2005, we also introduced a new product, Access EssentialsTM, specifically developed, packaged and priced to bring secure application virtualization and efficient centralized management of information resources to small and mid-sized businesses. We cannot guarantee that our small-sized customer marketing initiative or new product will be successful. Our failure to attract and retain small sized customers and small project initiatives within our larger enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as we attempt to attract and retain small sized customers and small project initiatives within our larger enterprise customers, we may need to increase corporate branding and broaden our marketing activities, which could increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits. We rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that we do not control. We rely significantly on independent distributors and resellers to market and distribute our products and appliances. We do not control our distributors and resellers. Additionally, our distributors and resellers are not obligated to buy our products and could also represent other lines of products. We maintain and periodically revise our sales incentive programs for our independent distributors and resellers, and such program revisions may adversely impact our results of operations. Some of our distributors and resellers maintain inventories of our packaged products for resale to smaller end-users. If distributors and resellers reduce their inventory of our packaged products, our business could be adversely affected. Further, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. The financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and distributors could significantly delay or default on their payment obligations. Any significant delays, defaults or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For certain of our products we rely on third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers, making us vulnerable to supply problems and price fluctuations. We rely on a number of third-party suppliers who provide hardware or hardware components, many of which are sole-source suppliers. For example, all of the production, final test, warehousing and shipping for our Application Networking products, 18 Table of Contents including our NetScaler products, Access Gateway products and WANScaler products are primarily performed by a third-party contract manufacturer. We do not typically have long-term supply agreements with our suppliers; and, in most cases, we purchase the products and components on an as-needed purchase order basis. In some instances, such as with respect to our Application Networking products, we maintain internal manufacturing capabilities to supplement third-party contract manufacturers and provide us with the flexibility needed to meet our product delivery requirements on sales orders on a limited basis. While we have not, to date, experienced any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products, our suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors, any of which could delay or impede their ability to meet our demand. Our reliance on these third-party suppliers and contract manufacturers subjects us to risks that could harm our business, including: • we may have difficulty locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our sole-source supplies; • our suppliers, especially new suppliers, may make errors in manufacturing components that could negatively affect the efficacy of our products or cause delays in shipment; • our suppliers manufacture products for a range of customers, and fluctuations in demand for the products these suppliers manufacture for others may affect their ability to deliver components and products to us in a timely manner; and • our suppliers may encounter financial hardships unrelated to our demand for components, which could inhibit their ability to fulfill our orders and meet our requirements. There may be delay associated with establishing additional or replacement suppliers, particularly for components that are available only from sole or limited sources. Any interruption or delay in the supply of products or components, or our inability to obtain products or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products and may not be detected until after our products are shipped. Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers. Our synthetic lease is an off-balance sheet arrangement that could negatively affect our financial condition and results. In April 2002, we entered into a seven-year synthetic lease with a lessor for our headquarters office buildings in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The synthetic lease qualifies for operating lease accounting treatment under SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, so we do not include the property or the associated lease debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. However, if the lessor were to change its ownership of our property or significantly change its ownership of other properties that it currently holds, under FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (revised) we could be required to consolidate the entity, the leased facility and the associated debt at that time. If we elect not to purchase the property at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value of approximately $51.9 million to the lessor. Therefore, if the fair value of the property declines below $51.9 million, our residual value guarantee would require us to pay the difference to the lessor, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into a credit facility agreement that restrict our ability to conduct our business and failure to comply with such agreements may have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and financial position. We, along with our subsidiary, Citrix Systems International GmbH, maintain a credit facility agreement that contains financial covenants tied to a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage, among other things. The credit facility agreement also contains affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations related to our ability to incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, conduct certain mergers or acquisitions, make certain investments and loans, alter our capital structure, sell stock or assets and pay dividends. If we fail to comply with these covenants or any other provision of the credit facility agreement, we may be in default under the credit facility agreement, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary waivers or amendments of such default. Upon an event of default under our credit facility agreement not otherwise amended or waived, the affected lenders could accelerate the repayment of any outstanding principal and accrued interest on their outstanding loans and terminate their commitments to lend additional funds, which may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position. 19 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our Online Services division customers’ data, our services may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our service. Use of our GoToMyPC, GoToMeeting, GoToAssist or GoToWebinar services involves the storage and transmission of customers’ business and personally identifiable information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to one of our online customers’ personally identifiable data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If any compromises of security were to occur, it could have the effect of substantially reducing the use of the Web for commerce and communications. Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate credit card and other payment information, personally identifiable customer information or cause interruptions in our services or operations. Computer viruses, software programs that disable or impair computers, have been and continue to be distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet. Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems or those of our vendors, which could disrupt our network or make it inaccessible to our Online Services division customers. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers for our Online Services division, and in the case of an actual breach we could incur fines and other penalties, which would significantly adversely affect our financial condition and the operating results for our Online Services division. Evolving regulation of the Web may adversely affect our Online Services division. As Web commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information. Additional regulation could impact our business through increased costs and restrictions on our ability to process and secure customer data. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Web or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Web may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Web use or restricting information exchange over the Web could result in a decline in the use of the Web and the viability of Web-based services, which would significantly adversely affect our financial condition and the operating results for our Online Services division. Natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes that result in a disruption of our operations could negatively impact our results of operations. Our worldwide operations are dependent on our network infrastructure, internal technology systems and Website. Significant portions of our computer equipment, intellectual property resources and personnel, including critical resources dedicated to research and development and administrative support functions are presently located at our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, an area of the country that is particularly prone to hurricanes, and at our various locations in California, an area of the country that is particularly prone to earthquakes. We also have operations in various domestic and international locations that expose us to additional diverse risks. The occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes, or other unanticipated catastrophes, such as telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, fires or terrorist attacks, at any of the locations in which we do business, could cause interruptions in our operations. For example, in October 2005, Hurricane Wilma passed through southern Florida causing extensive damage to the region, including some minor damage to our corporate headquarters facility. In addition, even in the absence of direct damage to our operations, large disasters, terrorist attacks or other casualty events could have a significant impact on our partners’ and customers’ businesses, which in turn could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Extensive or multiple disruptions in our operations, or our partners’ or customers’ businesses, due to natural disasters or other unanticipated catastrophes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to fund our product development and acquisitions and fulfill our future obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our operations and product development, including the payment of cash consideration in acquisitions and the payment of our other obligations, depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to liquidate our investments, repatriate cash and investments held in our overseas subsidiaries, sell assets or raise equity or debt financings when needed or desirable. An inability to fund our operations or fulfill outstanding obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information, please refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 20 Table of Contents Matters relating to or arising out of our historical stock option granting practices, including regulatory inquiries or proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional cash and non-cash charges, could have a material adverse effect on us. As described in the Explanatory Note to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included therein, in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors commenced a voluntary independent investigation of certain of our stock option granting practices and the related accounting during the period from January 1996 through December 2006. This investigation was conducted by the Audit Committee with the assistance of independent outside legal counsel and outside forensic accounting consultants. In addition to those grants evaluated as part of the Audit Committee’s investigation, we also evaluated all grants (consisting of two employee new hire grants) in December 1995, which was the month the Company completed its initial public offering, and all grants to non-employee directors. The Audit Committee completed its investigation in the second quarter of 2007. Based on the facts obtained in connection with the Audit Committee’s investigation and management’s supplemental review, we concluded that stock options granted during the period from December 1995 to March 2005, were accounted for using incorrect measurement dates, which required a restatement of our previously filed financial statements. We incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the related restatements, and may incur significant expenses in the future with respect to such matters, including as a result of litigation matters or additional cash and non-cash charges. For example, as described in Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings,” purported stockholder derivative actions have been filed relating to certain of our historical stock option grants. Even if resolved favorably, these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the impact and outcomes of current or future litigation matters are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as described in the Explanatory Note to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II Item 7 and in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 in Part IV Item 15, after the Audit Committee completed its investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and our review of the accounting treatment for our historical stock option grants, we recorded additional stock-based compensation expenses and related tax effects with regard to certain past stock option grants, and we restated previously issued financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. Although we believe we made appropriate judgments in determining the financial and tax impacts of our historical stock option granting practices and have consulted with the Office of the Chief Accountant of the SEC on certain interpretive matters, we cannot provide assurance that regulatory authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will agree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial and tax impacts. Specifically, in light of the significant judgment used in establishing revised measurement dates, alternate approaches to those used by us could have resulted in different compensation expense charges than those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and those differences could be considered material. We considered various alternative approaches and believe that the approaches used by us were appropriate under the circumstances. For a complete discussion of the judgments underlying the revised measurement dates, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. If regulatory authorities disagree with our financial or tax adjustments and such disagreements result in material changes to our historical financial statements, we may be required to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC or take other action that is not currently contemplated. In addition, other adjustments for non-operating cash charges may be required in connection with the resolution of stock option related matters arising under any litigation commenced against us. If stock balancing returns or price adjustments exceed our reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. We provide most of our distributors with stock balancing return rights, which generally permit our distributors to return products to us by the forty-fifth day of a fiscal quarter, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of our products prior to the last day of the same fiscal quarter. We also provide price protection rights to most of our distributors. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors if we lower our prices for those products within a specified time period. To cover our exposure to these product returns and price adjustments, we establish reserves based on our evaluation of historical product trends and current marketing plans. However, we cannot assure you that our reserves will be sufficient to cover our future product returns and price adjustments. If we inadequately forecast reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our stock price could be volatile, and you could lose the value of your investment. Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; 21 Table of Contents • analyst reports or recommendations; • changes in interest rates; and • other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market in general, The NASDAQ Global Select Market (formerly, the Nasdaq National Market), and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards related to share-based compensation may have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, a complex accounting standard that requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and similar awards. The application of SFAS No. 123R requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, particularly surrounding stock price volatility, option forfeiture rates and expected option lives, to build a model for appropriately valuing share-based compensation. There is a risk that, as a result of subsequent accounting guidelines or changes in our business, we could determine that the assumptions or model we used requires modification. Any such modification could result in significantly different charges in future periods and, potentially, could require us to correct the charges taken in prior periods. These modifications, as well as any such corrections of charges taken in a prior period could negatively affect our results of operations, stock price and our stock price volatility. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our net revenues have fluctuated quarterly and have generally been the highest in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced level of economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues. Quarterly results are also affected by the timing of the release of new products and services. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter, especially our fourth quarter, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Funds from certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible within 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience an other-than-temporary decline in value, which would adversely affect our income. In February 2008, approximately $45.5 million of our investment portfolio consists of municipal auction rate securities whose underlying assets are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. The market for municipal auction rate securities held in our portfolio began experiencing auction failures on February 13, 2008. If the issuers of the affected securities are unable to successfully complete future auctions or refinance their obligations and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these securities and recognize an impairment charge for an other-than-temporary decline in the fair values of these securities which will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. All of our auction rate securities, including those having recently experienced an auction failure, are currently rated triple-A by one or more rating agencies. We believe we will be able to liquidate our investment without significant loss within the next year, and we currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired. Based on our available cash and other investments, we do not currently anticipate that the lack of liquidity caused by failed auctions related to these securities will have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows or will affect our ability to operate our business as usual. Our business and investments could be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic political and social conditions. General economic and market conditions, and other factors outside our control including significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks or military actions, could adversely affect our business and impair the value of our investments. For example, an economic downturn could result in impairment in the value of our investments requiring us to record losses related to such investments. Impairment in the value of these investments may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management. As of December 31, 2007, we had $600.7 million of short and long-term investments, including restricted investments, with various issuers and financial institutions. In many cases we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these investments and could incur losses related to the impairment of these investments. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the value of our investments, and we could lose some of our investment portfolio. A total loss of an investment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For further information on these investments, please refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year that remain unresolved. 