ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We depend on the operating success of our customers (facility operators) for collection of our revenues during this time of uncertain economic conditions in the U.S. Revenues to operators of our Health Care Facilities are primarily driven by occupancy, Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement and private pay rates. Revenues from government reimbursement have, and may continue to, come under pressure due to reimbursement cuts and from widely-publicized federal and state budget shortfalls and constraints. Overall weak economic conditions in the U.S. which affect housing sales, investment returns and personal incomes may adversely affect occupancy rates of ALFs that generally rely on private pay residents. Expenses for the Health Care Facilities are driven by the costs of labor, food, utilities, taxes, insurance and rent or debt service. Liability insurance and staffing costs continue to increase for our operators. To the extent any decrease in revenues and/or any increase in operating expenses results in a facility not generating enough cash to make scheduled payments to us, our revenues, net income and funds from operations would be adversely affected. Such events and circumstances would cause us to evaluate whether there was an impairment of the real estate or mortgage loan that should be charged to earnings. Such impairment would be measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeded its fair value. Consequently, we might be unable to maintain or increase our current dividend and the market price of our stock may decline. We are exposed to the risk that our tenants and borrowers may not be able to meet the rent, principal and interest or other payments due us, which may result in an operator bankruptcy or insolvency, or that an operator might become subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings for other reasons. Although our operating lease agreements provide us the right to evict an operator, demand immediate payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and our mortgage loans provide us the right to terminate any funding obligations, demand immediate repayment of principal and unpaid interest, foreclose on the collateral and exercise other remedies, the bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to receive unpaid principal and/or interest in the case of a mortgage loan and to exercise other rights and remedies. We may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g. real estate taxes, maintenance and capital improvements) to preserve the value of a facility, avoid the imposition of liens on a facility and/or transition a facility to a new operator. In some instances, we have terminated our lease with an operator and leased the facility to another operator. In some of those situations, we provided working capital loans to, and limited indemnification of, the new 11 Table of Contents operator. If we cannot transition a leased facility to a new operator, we may take possession of that facility, which may expose us to certain successor liabilities. Should such events occur, our revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected. We are exposed to risks related to governmental regulations and payors, principally Medicare and Medicaid, and the effect that lower reimbursement rates will have on our tenants’ and borrowers’ business. Our operators’ businesses are affected by government reimbursement and private payor rates. To the extent that any of our Health Care Facilities receive a significant portion of its revenues from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, such revenues may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings, policy interpretations, payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries, government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific facilities) and interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such facilities. In recent years, governmental payors have frozen or reduced payments to health care providers due to budgetary pressures. On July 29, 2011, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced the Skilled Nursing Facilities – Prospective Payment System final rule for fiscal year 2012 that cuts Medicare payments to SNF operators by a net 11.1% beginning October 1, 2011. Such reductions in Medicare reimbursement will have an adverse effect on the financial operations of our borrowers and lessees who operate SNFs. Changes in health care reimbursement will likely continue to be of paramount importance to federal and state authorities. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or effect any future legislative reforms may have on the financial condition of the health care industry. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will continue to be available for services provided by any facility operator, whether the facility receives reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or private payors. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on an operator’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which could adversely affect the ability of an operator to meet its obligations to us. In addition, the replacement of an operator that has defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. We are exposed to the risk that the cash flows of our tenants and borrowers will be adversely affected by increased liability claims and general and professional liability insurance costs. Long-term care facility operators (ALFs and SNFs) have experienced substantial increases in both the number and size of patient care liability claims in recent years, particularly in the states of Texas and Florida. As a result, general and professional liability costs have increased and may continue to increase. Nationwide, long-term care liability insurance rates are increasing because of large jury awards in states like Texas and Florida. Both Texas and Florida have now adopted SNF liability laws that modify or limit tort damages. Despite some of these reforms, the long-term care industry overall continues to experience very high general and professional liability costs. Insurance companies have responded to this claims crisis by severely restricting their capacity to write long-term care general and professional liability policies. No assurance can be given that the climate for long-term care general and professional liability insurance will improve in any of the foregoing states or any other states where the facility operators conduct business. Insurance companies may continue to reduce or stop writing general and professional liability policies for ALFs and SNFs. Thus, general and professional liability insurance coverage may be restricted, very costly or not available, which may adversely affect the facility operators’ future operations, cash flows and financial condition and may have a material adverse effect on the facility operators’ ability to meet their obligations to us. We are exposed to risks related to environmental laws and the costs associated with the liability related to hazardous substances. Under various federal and state laws, owners or operators of real property may be required to respond to the release of hazardous substances on the property and may be held liable for property damage, personal injuries or penalties that result from environmental contamination. These laws also expose us to the possibility that we may become liable to reimburse the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Generally, such liability attaches to a person based on the person’s relationship to the property. Our tenants or borrowers are primarily responsible for the condition of the property and since we are a passive landlord, we do not “participate in the management” of any property in which we have an interest. Moreover, we review environmental site assessment of the properties that we own or encumber prior to taking an interest in them. Those assessments are designed to meet the “all appropriate inquiry” standard, which qualifies us for the innocent purchaser defense if environmental liabilities arise. Based upon such assessments, we do not believe that any of our properties are subject to material environmental contamination. However, environmental liabilities, including mold, may be present in our properties and we may incur costs to remediate contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk that we may not be indemnified by our lessees and borrowers against future litigation. Our leases require that the lessee name us as an additional insured party on the tenant’s insurance policy in regard to claims made for professional liability or personal injury. The leases also require the tenant to indemnify and hold us harmless for all claims resulting from the occupancy and use of each Health Care Facility. We cannot give any assurance that these protective measures will completely eliminate any risk to us related to future litigation, the costs of which could have a material adverse impact on us. We depend on the success of future acquisitions and investments. We are exposed to the risk that our future acquisitions may not prove to be successful. We could encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties, including contingent liabilities, and newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our existing business. If we agree to provide construction funding to an operator and the project is not completed, we may need to take steps to ensure completion of the project or we could lose the property. Moreover, if we issue equity securities or incur additional debt, or both, to finance future acquisitions, it may reduce our per share financial results. These costs may negatively affect our results of operations. We depend on the ability to reinvest cash in real estate investments in a timely manner and on acceptable terms. From time to time, we will have cash available from (1) the proceeds of sales of our securities, (2) principal payments on our loans receivable and (3) the sale of properties, including non-elective dispositions, under the terms of master leases or similar financial support arrangements. We must reinvest these proceeds, on a timely basis, in health care investments or in qualified short-term investments. We compete for real estate investments with a broad variety of potential investors. This competition for attractive investments may negatively affect our ability to make timely investments on terms acceptable to us. Delays in acquiring properties may negatively impact revenues and the amount of distributions to stockholders. We may need to incur more debt in the future, which may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company. We operate with a policy of incurring debt when, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, it is advisable. Currently, we believe that our low debt levels, availability under our unsecured credit facility and current liquidity will enable us to meet our obligations and continue to make investments in healthcare real estate. While we currently have a very low debt ratio, in the future, we may increase our borrowings. We may incur additional debt by borrowing under our unsecured credit facility, mortgaging properties we own and/or issuing debt securities in a public offering or in a private transaction. We believe we will be able to raise additional debt and equity capital at reasonable costs to refinance our credit facility at or prior to its maturity. Our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If our access to capital becomes limited, it could have an impact on our ability to refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and fund acquisition activities. We are exposed to the risk that the illiquidity of real estate investments could impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be limited. All of our properties are "special purpose" properties that cannot be readily converted to general residential, retail or office use. Health Care Facilities that participate in Medicare or Medicaid must meet extensive program requirements, including physical plant and operational requirements, which are revised from time to time. Transfers of operations of Health Care Facilities are subject to regulatory approvals not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. Thus, if the operation of any of our properties becomes unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements or other factors such that our lessee or borrower becomes unable to meet its obligations on the lease or mortgage loan, the liquidation value of the property may be less than the net book value or the amount owed on any related mortgage loan, because the property may not be readily adaptable to other uses. The sale of the property or the replacement of an operator that has defaulted on its lease or loan could also be delayed by the approval process of any federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator with a new operator licensed to manage the facility. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Should such events occur, our income and cash flows from operations could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk that our assets may be subject to impairment charges. We periodically, but not less than quarterly, evaluate our real estate investments and other assets for impairment indicators. The judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is based on factors such as market conditions, operator performance and legal structure. If we determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to make an adjustment to the net carrying value of the asset, which could have a material adverse affect on our reported results of operations in the period in which the impairment charge occurs. We depend on the ability to continue to qualify as a REIT. We intend to operate as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”) and believe we have and will continue to operate in such a manner. Since REIT qualification requires us to meet a number of complex requirements, it is possible that we may fail to fulfill them, and if we do, our earnings will be reduced by the amount of federal taxes owed. A reduction in our earnings would affect the amount we could distribute to our stockholders. We have ownership limits in our charter with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT. Our charter, provides that any transfer that would cause NHI to be beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons or would cause NHI to be “closely held” under Internal Revenue Code would be void, which, subject to certain exceptions, results in no person or entity being allowed to own, actually or constructively, more than 9.9% of the outstanding shares of our stock. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit and such an exemption has been granted through Excepted Holder Agreements to members of the Carl E. Adams family. Based on the Excepted Holder Agreements currently outstanding, the individual ownership limit for all other stockholders is approximately 7.5%. Our charter gives our Board of Directors’ broad powers to prohibit and rescind any attempted transfer in violation of the ownership limits. These ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. We are subject to certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws that could hinder, delay or prevent a change in control transaction, even if the transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. Certain provisions of Maryland law, our charter and our bylaws have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control, even if these transactions involve a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe such transaction to be otherwise in their best interests. The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that, unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including mergers, dispositions of 10% or more of its assets, issuances of shares of stock and other specified transactions with an "interested stockholder" or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter, unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of a Maryland corporation. Unless our Board of Directors takes action to exempt us, generally or with respect to certain transactions, from this statute in the future, the Maryland Business Combination Act will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. The Company’s Charter and Bylaws also contain certain provisions that could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. Such provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for the common stock. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, blank check preferred stock, and the application of Maryland corporate law provisions on business combinations and control shares. The foregoing matters may, together or separately, have the effect of discouraging or making more difficult an acquisition or change of control of the Company. Other risks. See the notes to the consolidated financial statements, “Business” under Item 1 and “Legal Proceedings” under Item 3 herein for a discussion of various governmental regulations and operating factors relating to the health care industry and other factors and the risks inherent in them. You should carefully consider each of the foregoing risks before making any investment decisions in the Company. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. There may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our shares of 14 Table of Contents stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Given these risks and uncertainties, we can give no assurance that these forward-looking statements will, in fact, occur and, therefore, caution investors not to place undue reliance on them. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 15 Table of Contents 