ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We caution you that the following important factors, among others, in the future could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, us in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below are important in determining future results. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make in our reports filed with the SEC. RISKS RELATED TO OUR HISTORIC BUSINESS OPERATIONS We have significant short-term debt obligations, which mature in less than three months. Failure to extend those maturities of, or to refinance, that debt could result in defaults, in certain instances, and foreclosures on our assets. At June 30, 2006, we had $9.2 million of short-term revolving credit facility loans and notes payable maturing in less than three months, all of which is secured by the pledge of substantially all of our assets. Subsequent to June 30, 2006, we obtained short-term extensions to the maturity dates of these obligations. See note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these extensions. Failure to obtain longer term extensions of the maturity dates of, or to refinance, these obligations or to obtain additional equity financing to meet these debt obligations would result in an event of default with respect to such obligations and could result in the foreclosure on the collateral. The sale of such collateral at foreclosure would result in a substantial disruption in our ability to produce products for our customers in the quantities required by customer orders or deliver products in a timely fashion, which could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. We may be able to refinance or obtain extensions of the maturities of all or some of such debt only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate, including terms that place limitations on our ability to incur other indebtedness, to pay dividends, to use our assets as collateral for other financings, to sell assets or to make acquisitions or enter into other transactions. Such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or to engage in other business activities. If we finance the repayment of our outstanding indebtedness by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, such issuances could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have a history of losses and expect to incur future losses. We had operating losses for the year ended June 30, 2006 and in each of the last 12 fiscal years. We also had negative cash flow from operating activities in the year ended June 30, 2006 and in seven out of the last eleven fiscal years. If our revenues do not increase significantly, without a corresponding decrease in expenses, we may never achieve profitability, on a sustained basis or at all, or generate positive cash flow in the future. In that case our business will fail. We expect to incur significant future operating losses and negative cash flows. Vertical Networks, Inc. also incurred operating losses in each of their last three fiscal years prior to being acquired by us. Comdial’s revenues and operating results have experienced fluctuations in the past and may cause our revenues and operating results to vary in the future. Comdial’s revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past due to various factors, including changes in market acceptance of Comdial’s services, regulatory changes that may affect the marketability of Comdial’s services, budgetary cycles of Comdial’s principal clients, the mix and timing of client projects, and one-time nonrecurring and unusual charges. As a result, the operations acquired from Vertical Networks and Comdial may not consistently generate profits or positive cash flow, which would likely have a material negative impact on our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. We will need additional working capital, the lack of which would likely have a significant negative impact on our current level of operations. The Comdial acquisition consumed significant amounts of working capital and the Comdial Assets were acquired with limited working capital. As a result, we had negative working capital at June 30, 2006, and we may require additional capital in the future to fund our operations, finance investments in product development and corporate infrastructure, expand in our various geographic markets and respond to competitive pressures and opportunities for growth. Failure to obtain additional funding would prevent us from making expenditures that are needed to allow us to grow or maintain our operations. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on favorable terms, or at all. If funds are not available when required for our working capital needs or other transactions, our ability to carry out our business plan will be adversely affected, and we may be required to scale back our growth and operations to reflect the extent of available funding. If we are able to arrange for additional credit facilities from lenders, the debt instruments are likely to include limitations on our ability to incur other indebtedness, to pay dividends, to create liens, to sell or purchase our capital stock, to sell assets or to make acquisitions or enter into other transactions. Such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities, including, without limitation, acquisitions of additional businesses. We are already subject to such restrictions under the $2.5 million 8% subordinated promissory note owed to the Comdial Estate (the “Comdial Note”), the loan and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”) (the “SVB Loan Agreement”), the stock purchase agreement executed on September 28, 2004 (the “2004 Stock Purchase Agreement”), the stock purchase agreement executed on September 28, 2005 (the “2005 Stock Purchase Agreement”) and the securities purchase agreement executed on February 9, 2006 (the “2006 Securities Purchase Agreement”). If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced. These securities would likely have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stockholders. The inability to obtain substantial increases in our working capital resources will likely have a material negative impact on our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Our disclosure controls and procedures were previously not effective and may not be effective in the future. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have determined that as of June 30, 2006, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that information we are required to disclose in our Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time specified by the SEC’s rules and forms. However, in prior quarters and years, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. This determination was made, in part, because we failed to timely file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2004, December 31, 2004, and March 31, 2005, an amendment to our Current Report on Form 8-K originally filed September 29, 2004 to disclose certain financial data in connection with our acquisition of Vertical Networks, and our Current Report on Form 8-K relating to the execution of an office lease dated July 6, 2005. Our former and current independent registered public accounting firms have previously indicated that we have certain material weaknesses with our internal controls and as a result, our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective. Our former independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP (“KPMG”), advised our management and our audit committee that, in connection with its review of our financial statements for the three and six month periods ended December 31, 2004, KPMG noted certain matters involving internal control and its operation that it considered to be a material weakness that constituted reportable conditions under standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Reportable conditions are matters coming to an independent registered public accounting firm’s attention that, in its judgment, relate to significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal control and could adversely affect the organization’s ability to record, process, summarize, and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in the financial statements. KPMG advised our management and our audit committee that it considered the following to constitute reportable conditions related to internal control and their operations: 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements we did not have adequate staffing in our finance group with the appropriate level of experience to effectively control the increased level of transaction activity, address the complex accounting matters and manage the increased financial reporting complexities resulting from the acquisition of Vertical Networks and the associated integration activities. Our current independent registered public accounting firm, Vitale Caturano and Company Ltd. (“VCC”) advised our management and our audit committee that, in connection with their audit of our financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2005, VCC noted certain matters involving internal control and its operation that it considered to be material weaknesses that constituted material weaknesses under the standards of the Public Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). VCC advised our management and our audit committee that it considered the following to constitute a material weakness in internal control and operations: we did not have adequate staffing in our accounting and finance group with the appropriate level of experience to effectively accomplish timely and accurate closings, control the increased level of transaction activity, address the complex accounting matters and manage the increased financial reporting complexities resulting from recent acquisitions. We are also in the preliminary stages of preparing for our report on internal controls over financial reporting, which must be filed with the annual report for our fiscal year ending June 30, 2009. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures may be limited by a variety of risks, including, without limitation, faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions, or mistakes; the collusion of two or more people or inappropriate management override of procedures; and imprecision in estimating and judging cost-benefit relationships in designing controls. At this point in the process, it is not possible to ascertain whether this report will disclose any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or even whether we will be able to conclude, after such analysis, that our internal controls are effective; however, our recent failure to timely file certain Exchange Act reports, as well as the matters discussed above, resulted in our auditor determining that we have a material weakness in our internal controls system. Upon a determination that we have such a material weakness, we will be required to report that our internal controls over financial accounting are not effective. If we fail to have effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information. We have not timely filed several of our periodic reports under the Exchange Act and may fail to timely file periodic Exchange Act reports in the future. We failed to timely file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2004, December 31, 2004, and March 31, 2005, an amendment to our Current Report on Form 8-K originally filed September 29, 2004 to disclose certain financial data in connection with our acquisition of Vertical Networks, and our Current Report on Form 8-K relating to the execution of an office lease dated July 6, 2005. We filed the Quarterly Report for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 on January 25, 2005, filed the Quarterly Report for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 on April 1, 2005, filed the Quarterly Report for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 on June 3, 2005, filed our amendment to our Form 8-K on April 20, 2005, and our 8-K on July 14, 2005. If we cannot timely file our Exchange Act reports in the future, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 until 12 months after the last late filed Exchange Act report, and ineligible to qualify for the safe harbor provisions for resale of restricted securities under Rule 144 of the Exchange Act. Inability to register securities on Form S-3 or sell restricted securities under the safe harbor provisions of Rule 144 limits the liquidity of our securities and restricts the market for our securities. In addition, failure to remain current in our Exchange Act reporting requirements in the future may in the future result in our common stock being de-listed from the OTC Bulletin Board and adversely affect our ability to list our common stock on a national exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market in the future. If our common stock was to be de-listed from the OTC Bulletin Board, the market for our common stock would become severely restricted and holders of our common stock may be unable to sell their shares. We have agreed in the 2004 and 2005 Stock Purchase Agreements and the 2006 Securities Purchase Agreement to seek a listing of our common stock on a national exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market. If we are unable to list our securities on a national exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market because we have failed to remain current in our Exchange Act reporting requirements, we may be subject to claims by M/C Venture Partners for indemnification, liability for breach of contract or other common law remedies. If we do not resume trading on a national exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market and if we are de-listed from the OTC Bulletin Board, trading in our common stock may only be conducted based on trading information referenced on the “Pink Sheets”. Being quoted on the “Pink Sheets” could damage our general business reputation and could impair our ability to raise additional capital. Securities quoting on the “Pink Sheets” tend to be less liquid and subject to volatile stock prices. Our stockholders could be adversely affected if M/C Venture Partners use their influence in a manner adverse to our stockholders’ interests. As of June 30, 2006, M/C Venture Partners beneficially owned approximately 52.2% of our common stock. Based upon its substantial voting power and their director rights, M/C Venture Partners is in a position to exert substantial influence over matters submitted to our stockholders for approval and our management and affairs, including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, M/C Venture Partners currently maintains the contractual right to nominate two members to our seven member board of directors and has a shared right with our board of directors 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to nominate an additional two members. Accordingly, such concentration of ownership and ability to appoint members to our board may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to take control of our company, which in turn could have a negative effect on the market price of our stock. These actions could also be adverse to our other stockholders’ interests. If we fail to meet our obligations under the Comdial Note, our payment obligations may be accelerated. Under the terms of the Comdial Note, if certain events occur, including, without limitation, our failure to pay any installment of principal or interest due under the Comdial Note, then the Comdial bankruptcy estate may, among other things, elect to accelerate our obligations under the Comdial Note and declare the outstanding principal balance and accrued but unpaid interest immediately due and payable. It could also elect to increase the interest rate of the Comdial Note from 8% to 10% per year. Should we be unable to make immediate repayment of the Comdial Note at the time of an acceleration demand, the Comdial bankruptcy estate could elect to pursue its rights under a security agreement executed concurrently with the Comdial note (the “Security Agreement”), which secured our obligations under the Comdial Note by granting a security interest on all of our assets and the assets of Vertical Communications Acquisition Corp. (“Acquisition Sub’), subject to a subordination agreement with SVB. In the event that the Comdial bankruptcy estate declares the Comdial Note immediately due and payable or seeks to foreclose on any of our assets under the Security Agreement, it would likely have a material adverse affect on our financial position and our results of operations. If we fail to meet certain covenants under our 2005 Debt Financing, our payment obligations may be accelerated. We are obligated to make certain payments of principal and interest for both a revolving line of credit in an amount not to exceed $7,000,000 (the “Revolving Loan”), as well as a $2,000,000 term loan (the “Term Loan”) under the SVB Loan Agreement. In addition, we are obligated to take certain actions and refrain from taking certain actions during the term of the SVB Loan Agreement, including, without limitation, meeting certain financial covenants, some of which are not completely within our ability to control. Should we fail to meet our payment obligations, fail to comply with any affirmative or negative covenant, or should any other situation arise which constitutes an “Event of Default” under the SVB Loan Agreement, SVB could elect, among other things, to accelerate our indebtedness under the Term Loan and the Revolving Loan, or to take possession of, sell, lease, or otherwise dispose of any of our assets, including the Comdial Assets, which were pledged as collateral under the SVB Loan Agreement. In the event that SVB declares the Term Loan and/or Revolving Loan immediately due and payable or seeks to foreclose on any of our assets, it would likely have a material adverse affect on our financial position and our results of operations. Because we failed to cause the registration statement filed on December 6, 2005 to be declared effective in accordance with the timetable set forth in the 2005 Stock Purchase Agreement, we are subject to liquidated damages or liability for breach of contract. Pursuant to the 2005 Stock Purchase Agreement, we agreed to register the shares of our common stock issued to the investors (referred to as the “2005 Investors”) for resale under the Securities Act of 1933. We agreed to file a registration statement covering these shares no later than December 12, 2005. We filed this registration statement relating to these shares of common stock, among others, on December 6, 2005 (the “Filing Date”). We further agreed to use our best efforts to cause the registration statement to become effective in certain events but no later than 90 days after the Filing Date (referred to as the “Required Effective date”). We are liable for liquidated damages to each 2005 investor as a result of the Effectiveness Default. We must pay as liquidated damages to the 2005 Investors, and the investors who were parties to the 2004 Stock Purchase Agreement (the “2004 Investors”) for each 30-day period of the effectiveness default, an amount in cash equal to 1% of the aggregate purchase price paid by the 2005 Investor or 2004 Investor as the case may be, pursuant to the 2005 Stock Purchase Agreement or the 2004 Stock Purchase Agreement, provided that in no event will the aggregate amount of cash to be paid as liquidated damages exceed 9% of the aggregate purchase price paid by any respective 2005 Investor or 2004 Investor. Should we be required to make payment of these liquidated damages, it will likely have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, our financial position and our results of operations, particularly if we became obligated to make payment in full of all liquidated damages potential due and payable under these agreements. Because we failed to file a registration statement in accordance with the timetable set forth in the 2006 Securities Purchase Agreement, we are subject to liquidated damages and possibly liability for breach of contract. Pursuant to the 2006 Securities Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to register the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series D Convertible Preferred Stock (the Series D Preferred Stock) and upon exercise of the warrants for resale by the 2006 investors under the Securities Act. We agreed to file with the SEC a registration statement with respect to the Series D Preferred Stock and warrants no later than March 27, 2006 (the “2006 Filing Date”), and to use our best efforts to cause the registration statement to become effective on or before the date that is the earlier of (1) in the event of no review by the SEC, within 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements five days of being informed by the SEC that the SEC has decided not to review the Registration Statement, but in no event later than 30 days after the 2006 Filing Date, (2) in the event of a review by the SEC, within five days of being informed by the SEC that the SEC has no further comments on such registration statement, but in no event later than 90 days after the 2006 Filing Date (the earlier of (1) and (2), the “2006 Required Effective Date”). Because we failed to file the registration statement by the 2006 Filing Date, we are obligated to pay as liquidated damages to the 2006 Investors, for each 30-day period of a 2006 Registration Default, an amount in cash equal to 1% of the aggregate purchase price paid by the 2006 Investor pursuant to the 2006 Stock Purchase Agreement; provided that in no event will the aggregate amount of cash to be paid as liquidated damages exceed 9% of the aggregate purchase price paid by such 2006 Investor. We must pay the liquidated damages on the business day following the 2006 Filing Default, and each 30th day thereafter, until the registration statement has been filed with the SEC. In addition to liquidated damages pursuant to the 2004 and 2005 Stock Purchase Agreements, our obligations to pay these liquidated damages will likely have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, our financial position and our results of operations, particularly if we become obligated to make payment in full of all liquidated damages potentially due and payable under these agreements. Restrictive covenants in the 2004 and 2005 Stock Purchase Agreement and the 2006 Securities Purchase Agreement may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. We have agreed under the terms of the 2004 and 2005 Stock Purchase Agreements and the 2006 Securities Purchase Agreement that we will not, without the prior consent of M/C Venture Partners, (1) enter into a transaction involving a change in control of our company; (2) incur indebtedness in excess of $3.0 million, subject to specified exceptions; (3) create any security with an equity component unless that security is junior to the common stock; (4) issue any equity securities; (5) transfer our intellectual property; (6) repurchase, redeem or pay dividends on any shares of capital stock (subject to limited exceptions); (7) grant stock options that are not authorized by a vote of the board of directors or its compensation committee; (8) liquidate or dissolve; (9) change the size of our board of directors; (10) amend our Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws; (11) change the nature of the Company’s business; (12) alter the voting rights of shares of our capital stock in a disparate manner; or (13) take any action which would cause an adjustment to the exercise price or number of shares to be delivered under Section 8 of the warrants issued to the 2006 Investors. If we do not comply with these covenants, we could be subject to claims for indemnification, liability for breach of contract and other common law remedies. Compliance with these covenants may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities or address concerns with our operations. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or events beyond our control. Restrictive Covenants in the SVB Loan Agreement may limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. Under the terms of the SVB Loan Agreement, we are not permitted to take certain actions, without the prior written consent of SVB, including, without limitation, the following: (1) merge or consolidate with another corporation or entity except that we may merge with Acquisition Sub; (2) acquire any assets, except in the ordinary course of business; (3) enter into any other transaction outside the ordinary course of business; (4) sell or transfer any collateral pledged to SVB under the SVB Loan Agreement, except for the sale of finished inventory in the ordinary course of our business, and except for the sale of obsolete or unneeded equipment in the ordinary course of business and transfers between us and Acquisition Sub; (5) store any inventory or other collateral with any warehouseman or other third party; (6) sell any inventory on a sale-or-return, guaranteed sale, consignment, or other contingent basis; (7) except for advances in the ordinary course of business not exceeding $100,000 in the aggregate outstanding at any time, make any loans of any money or other assets; (8) incur any debts outside the ordinary course of business other than debts outstanding as of the date of the SVB Loan Agreement; (9) guarantee or otherwise become liable with respect to the obligations of another party or entity; (10) pay or declare any dividends on our common stock (except for dividends payable solely in our capital stock) or dividends paid by Acquisition Sub to us; (11) redeem, retire, purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, any of our stock; (12) make any change in our capital structure which would have a material adverse effect on us or on the prospect of repayment of the our obligations under the SVB Loan Agreement; (13) engage, directly or indirectly, in any business other than the business we currently engage in; or (14) dissolve or elect to dissolve. If we do not comply with these covenants, we could be subject to claims for indemnification, liability for breach of contract and other common law remedies. Compliance with these covenants may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities or address concerns with our operations. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or events beyond our control. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Failure to successfully integrate the acquired operations of Vertical Networks and Comdial could have a material adverse effect on our combined operations. Our decisions to acquire the operations of both Vertical Networks and Comdial were based in part, on our belief in the growth opportunities and cost savings we hope to achieve from the integration of those operations into our operations and our plans to expand our product offerings to our customers and future customers. Our success in realizing these and other anticipated benefits could be adversely affected by a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These challenges include the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including: • integrating the operations and technologies of the two companies; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • retaining existing customers of both companies and attracting additional customers; • retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; and • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems. The execution of these post-acquisition events will involve considerable risks and may not be successful. These risks include: • the potential disruption of the combined company’s ongoing business and distraction of its management; • the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • unanticipated expenses and potential delays related to integration of the operations, technology and other resources of the two companies and • the impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers and customers as a result of the integration of personnel and any reductions in force. The combined company may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with these acquisitions. The inability to successfully integrate our operations, technology and personnel with those of Vertical Networks and Comdial, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on the combined company after the acquisition and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. We may experience difficulties marketing our products following the acquisitions of Vertical Networks and Comdial. With the acquisition of Vertical Networks, we now market a significant amount of products, primarily InstantOffice and its family of products, to several large enterprise customers, including CVS and Staples. We have little experience marketing our products to, or establishing and maintaining customer relationships with, such large enterprise customers. If we are unable to maintain what are essentially new customers, it would likely result in a decline in sales of InstantOffice, which would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues. If we are unable to add additional large enterprise customers, we may have difficulty in our efforts to increase our revenues and achieve profitability. The former customers of Comdial may not continue their current buying patterns following our acquisition of the Comdial Assets. Any significant delay or reduction in orders for the Comdial Products could harm the combined company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Former customers of Comdial may defer purchasing decisions as they evaluate the likelihood of successful integration of our products with those of Comdial, and the combined company’s future product strategy, or consider purchasing products of our competitors. Former Comdial customers may also seek to modify or terminate existing agreements, or prospective customers may delay entering into new agreements or purchasing our products. In addition, by increasing the breadth of our business, the acquisition may make it more difficult for the combined company to enter into relationships, including customer relationships, with strategic partners, some of whom may view the combined company as a more direct competitor than either entity as an independent company. Integrating our companies may divert management’s attention away from our operations. Successful integration of our operations, products and personnel with those of Comdial may place a significant burden on our management and our internal resources. The diversion of management attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. If we fail to retain key employees, the benefits of the acquisitions could be diminished. The successful acquisition of the Comdial Assets will depend in part on the retention of key personnel. As a result of the acquisition, our employees and those of Comdial could experience uncertainty about their future roles within our continuing operations. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key management, technical, sales and customer support personnel or those of Comdial. If we fail to retain such key employees, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our revenues are highly concentrated among a small number of customers and the loss of one of these customers would harm our business and prospects, perhaps materially. A significant portion of our revenues are generated by a small number of customers. If we were to lose one or more of these customers, our revenues would decline and our business and prospects would be materially harmed. We expect that even if we are successful in developing relationships with additional customers through the acquisition of the Comdial Assets, or through additional sales of our historic products, our revenues will continue to be concentrated. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain any of our current customers or that we will be able to obtain new customers. We do not have long-term contracts with a majority of our customers, which renders our sales channels particularly unstable. We do not have any long-term agreements with our customers who acquire our products. Accordingly, our customers are not contractually obligated to buy from us in the future. Our customers are not required to make minimum purchases from us or make purchases at any particular time and are free to purchase from our competitors. Also, our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty. If our customers do not purchase our products in sufficient quantities or on a recurring basis, our business and prospects will suffer. Even if our customers are willing to purchase our products, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our products at prices that are favorable to us. We rely on others to promote and sell our products, and their failure to do so may seriously harm our business. We depend on distributors and resellers and system integrators to market and sell our products. If these customers do not focus their marketing efforts on software- or server-based phone systems or focus on products competitive with our products our sales will be materially adversely affected. Failure of distributors, system integrators, and resellers to focus on software- or server-based phone systems may send a negative signal to current and potential customers concerning the viability of our industry or our product offerings. We depend upon the availability of distribution outlets to market our products. Loss of these outlets will harm our ability to broaden our brand acceptance and enhance our reputation in the market. In addition, our operating results would be adversely affected if one of our major distributors, resellers or original equipment manufacturers failed to timely and fully pay us for the products they purchased from us for resale or integration, as the case may be. If software- and server-based phone systems do not achieve widespread acceptance, we may not be able to continue our operations. The market for software- and server-based business phone systems is relatively new and rapidly evolving. Businesses have invested substantial resources in the existing telecommunications infrastructure, including traditional private telephone systems, and may be unwilling to replace these systems in the near term or at all. Businesses also may be reluctant to adopt computer telephony systems because of their concern about the current limitations of data networks, including the Internet. For example, end-users sometimes experience delays in receiving calls and reduced voice quality during calls when routing calls over data networks. Moreover, businesses that begin to route calls over the same networks that currently carry only their data also may experience these problems if the networks do not have sufficient capacity to carry all of these communications at the same time. We cannot assure you that businesses will migrate toward computer telephony systems or that computer telephony systems will gain widespread acceptance. Rapid technological change creates a dependence on development of new products. The market for telecommunications systems and products has been characterized by rapid technological change and continuing demand for new products and features. Accordingly, the timely introduction of new products and product features, as well as new telecommunications applications are expected to continue to be major factors in our future success. Market needs and expectations will require us to continue to identify, develop, and sell new products and features that keep pace with technological developments and competitive pressures. In addition, technological difficulties occasionally inherent in new products and the time necessary to stabilize new product manufacturing costs may adversely affect operating costs. There can be no assurance that our products will achieve market acceptance, or that we will be able to continue to develop new products, technologies, and applications as required by changing market needs in the future. Products in our new Comdial inventory may become obsolete. Comdial offered a variety of communications products which included technologies that are enhanced rapidly in today’s business environment. Comdial measured its product inventories on hand at the lower of cost or market. Comdial also provided allowances for excess and obsolete inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based on assumptions about product life cycles, product demand and market conditions. The technologies incorporated into our new Comdial products are periodically modified in reaction to both customer requirements and to market conditions. This rapid technology change potentially impacts the carrying value of our new Comdial inventory on hand due to obsolescence. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Disruption in supplies of certain essential components will impair our ability to manage our inventory with distributors and resellers. As a result of the acquisitions of Vertical Networks and Comdial, we now design and distribute the hardware on which many of our software products operate. If our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain supplies necessary to the manufacture of our hardware, our ability to maintain inventory with our distributors and resellers will be harmed. Continued sales of our hardware-based products are dependent upon continued availability of the commercially available components used to manufacture the custom hardware, as well as continued cooperation by the manufacturers involved in assembling the custom servers used by the product. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenues and gross margins could suffer until other sources can be developed. Our operating results would also be adversely affected if, anticipating greater demand than actually develops, we commit to the purchase of more finished goods than we need. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases our contract manufacturers use standard parts and components for our products, certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited sources. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales. We do not manufacture the hardware utilized by InstantOffice and hold in-house only limited amounts of inventory for purposes of replacements of systems or parts as required for field support. Should we experience a disruption in the supply of these finished goods, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell and service our InstantOffice product line. The fact that we do not own our manufacturing facilities could have an adverse impact on the supply of our products and on operating results. Financial problems of contract manufacturers on whom we rely, or reservation of manufacturing capacity by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs. As part of its restructuring program, Comdial outsourced substantially all of its manufacturing requirements. Outsourced manufacturing is carried out in three principal locations: Asia, Mexico and the United States. Outsourcing, particularly with international manufacturers, carries certain risks which include, but may not be limited to: • the outsourcing contractors’ ability to manufacture products that meet our technical specification and that have minimal defects; • the outsourcing contractors’ ability to honor their product warranties; • the financial solvency, labor concerns and general business condition of our outsourcing contractors; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • inadequate protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; • political and economic conditions in overseas locations; • risks of fire, flood or acts of God affecting manufacturing facilities; and • our ability to meet our financial obligations with our outsourcing contractors. In addition, our new outsourcing contractors acquire component parts from various suppliers. Similar risks are involved in such procurement efforts. Due to our new dependency on outsourced manufacturing and the inherent difficulty in replacing outsourced manufacturing capacity in an efficient or expeditious manner, the occurrence of any condition preventing or hindering the manufacture or delivery of manufactured goods by any one or more of our outsourcing contractors would have a material adverse affect on our business in the short term and may have a material adverse affect in the long term. In calendar 2002, Comdial experienced significant problems associated with a principal outsource manufacturer. Faulty component parts used by the manufacturer in the production of a principal product caused a significant shortfall in product inventory, and led to Comdial’s inability to meet product orders, negatively impacting sales and revenues. In addition, Comdial was adversely affected by a port strike that resulted in the temporary closure of certain ports on the West Coast of the United States. During the third quarter of 2002, Comdial experienced difficulties in fulfilling certain product orders as a result of the production transition from Virginia to the outsourcing partners, and a backlog that has been built up with one of the United States outsourcing partners. Also in 2002, Comdial was forced to terminate its relationship with a principal outsource manufacturer and transition that work to other contractors. The terminated manufacturer was unable to meet substantially all of Comdial’s product delivery orders because of financial and operational problems. That inability caused further problems for Comdial in meeting customer orders and resulted in a substantial backlog, potential lost business and other losses. Comdial filed an arbitration action against that manufacturer in 2002 in order to seek recovery of the losses caused by their failure in performance. While these problems with these contract manufacturers have been addressed by Comdial, we cannot give assurances that they will not continue to have an impact on sales and revenues, or that similar or other significant problems will not occur in the future. Undetected flaws in our products may damage our reputation, cause loss of customers and increase customer support costs. Telecommunications products as complex as our products may contain undetected errors or flaws. The presence of any such 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements errors or flaws could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customers, delay of market acceptance of our products or all of these consequences. Our customers or we may find errors in current or any new products after commencement of commercial shipments. In addition, if our products are flawed or are difficult to use, customer support costs could rise. If we are unable to timely and effectively correct flaws in our products, we will lose customers and our ability to make future sales will be adversely affected. If we are unable to produce reliable products, our reputation will suffer, perhaps irreparably, and our business could fail. Malfunctions or errors in third-party technology may limit our ability to sell our products and may damage the reputation of our products, perhaps materially. Our TeleVantage, Instant Office and Comdial products operate on or are comprised of hardware manufactured by third parties. We are dependent on the reliability of this hardware and, to the extent the hardware has defects, it will affect the performance of our products. If the hardware becomes unreliable, does not perform in a manner that is acceptable to our customers or becomes more expensive, sales of our products could decline. Because many of our products run on Microsoft software products and use other Microsoft Corporation technologies, we must depend on the reliability and quality of such products and technologies. Errors or vulnerabilities in Microsoft products could impair sales of some of our products. Our customers may associate unreliability of the hardware and flaws in Microsoft products with a lack of quality of some of our products, which may cause us to lose customers and hurt future sales. Our ability to remedy malfunctions or errors will depend on the timeliness and availability of repair solutions from the manufacturers. Future success of our products and any new products will depend on the ability of our hardware and software manufacturers to produce reliable products in the future. Many of our products incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing levels of integration. Our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain in a competitive posture. If licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, and we cannot otherwise integrate such technology, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. In such instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute technology to deliver competitive products. We are subject to risks associated with international operations. We conduct business globally. International sales accounted for approximately 2% of net sales for the year ended June 30, 2006, and 8% the year ended June 30, 2005. We also acquire various raw materials and components from international suppliers. We intend to expand our presence in international markets, and we cannot assure you that we will compete successfully in international markets or meet the service and support needs of foreign customers. Our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors relating to international operations, including: • difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through the legal systems of foreign countries; • the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; • the possibility that foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade; • fluctuations in exchange rates, which may affect product demand and adversely affect the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided by us in foreign markets where payment is made in local currency; • our ability to obtain U.S. export licenses and other required export or import licenses or approvals; • changes in the political, regulatory or economic conditions in a country or region; and • difficulty protecting our intellectual property in foreign countries. Our market is highly competitive, and if we fail to compete successfully our products will not be successful. We compete with other companies offering proprietary private branch exchanges, such as Nortel Networks Corporation, Siemens AG, and Avaya, Inc. As we focus on the development and marketing of computer telephony systems, we face intense competition from providers of voice communications systems as well as from data networking companies such as Cisco Systems, Inc. and 3Com Corp. In addition, because the market for our products is subject to rapid technological change, as the market evolves we may face competition in the future from companies that do not currently compete in the software- and server-based phone systems market, including companies that currently compete in other sectors of the technology, communications and software industries. Competition from these potential market entrants may take many forms, including offering products and applications similar to those we offer as part of a larger, bundled offering. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Comdial competed with approximately 25 companies, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing, and technical resources than we do. In addition, we must compete to attract and retain dealers for our new Comdial Products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace or that we will be able to maintain Comdial’s prior dealer network. Several of these existing competitors have, and many of our future competitors may have, greater financial, personnel and capacity resources than us and as a result, these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to potential acquisitions and other market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Competitors with greater financial resources also may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot match or do not offer. We cannot predict with precision which competitors may enter our markets in the future or what form such competition may take. In order to effectively compete with any new market entrant, we may need to make additional investments in our business or use more capital resources than our business currently requires. We are relying on our next generation product to launch in early 2007 and if we fail to achieve general release in that time period our operations will be negatively impacted. We are currently making a substantial investment in the unified engineering and product management team that is working on our next-generation IP-PBX product family, which is expected to ship in 2007. This next-generation offering is designed to provide a smooth migration path for our current installed base, which includes customers of our three product lines, with a mixture of digital and IP deployments. To ensure this smooth migration, the engineering organization is combining the best-of-breed elements of all three current product lines into the next-generation product, which will use as its foundation an integrated communications platform with a dual backplane that will natively support both TDM and IP installations. Customers will therefore be able to upgrade readily to our next-generation platform while protecting and leveraging their existing telephony investments. We believe that this approach will differentiate us competitively – especially from providers of IP-only systems – and we have calibrated our engineering investment to take advantage of this opportunity. If there are delays in release or insurmountable problems with this next generation product, our operations will be negatively impacted as we require this new product to remain competitive in our market. The failure of our products to perform properly could result in a number of significant negative consequences to us, including a claim for substantial damages, the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and damage to our reputation. In addition, current and prospective customers may become discouraged from purchasing our products. Because customers purchasing our products rely on them for the communication needs of their respective businesses, we may be exposed to potential claims for damages, including special or consequential damages, as a result of an actual or perceived failure of our products. Our failure or inability to meet a customer’s expectations in the performance of our products, or failure to address any failure of our products in a timely manner, regardless of our responsibility for failure, could (1) result in a claim for substantial damages against us; (2) divert management’s attention and resources; (3) damage our business reputation; and (4) discourage other customers from purchasing our products in the future. We maintain certain contractual limitations of liability and insurance against some of these risks; however, there can be no assurance that such provisions would be enforced or effective or that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages. Further, we cannot assure you that insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. If we are unable to rely on our contractual limitations of liability and/or maintain sufficient insurance, our business could be harmed. Our market is subject to changing preferences and technological change, and our failure to keep up with these changes would harm our business and prospects, perhaps materially. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our products obsolete and unmarketable. If we are unable to stay current or ahead of changes in the technology or industry standards, our business and prospects will suffer, perhaps materially. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond to rapid technological change, changing customer needs, frequent product introductions and evolving industry standards within the markets for computer telephony solutions. We may be unable to develop and introduce new computer telephony products (including new releases and enhancements) on a timely basis that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We have adopted anti-takeover defenses that could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of our company or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include a classified board of directors, restrictions on calling and holding stockholder meetings, and giving our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. Our protection of intellectual property may not allow us to effectively prevent others from using our business model or our technology. Our success is dependent upon our software code base, our programming methodologies and other intellectual property. We rely on copyright protection for such works of authorship and trade secret protection for our technical know-how and other confidential information. We do not currently maintain patent protection for our business model or our technology and we currently do not plan significant patent applications in the future. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, vendors and consultants and with our clients and corporations with whom we have strategic relationships; however, the terms of these agreements vary and may not provide us with adequate protection against non-disclosure. In addition, we attempt to maintain control over, access to, and distribution of our intellectual property and technical know-how; however, despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our service offering or the documentation used by us in delivering such services or to obtain and use other information that we regard as proprietary. Monitoring infringement of intellectual property rights is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property and technical know-how, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Accordingly, other parties, including competitors, may duplicate our product offerings. Furthermore, Comdial has, from time to time, been subject to proceedings alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. We may find ourselves defending infringement claims related to intellectual property assets that are included in the Comdial Assets. Such proceedings could require us to expend significant sums in litigation, pay significant damages, develop non-infringing technology, or acquire licenses to the technology which is the subject of the asserted infringement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, Comdial has relied in the past upon intellectual property rights to protect its proprietary rights in its products and software. There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our new Comdial technologies or independent third-party development of potentially infringing technologies. We may become involved in intellectual property or other disputes that could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the efforts of our management, and require us to pay substantial damages or require us to obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Third parties, including competitors, may already have patents on inventions, or may obtain patents on new inventions in the future, that could limit our ability to market and sell the products we provide now or new products we may offer in the future. Such third parties may claim that our products infringe their patent rights and assert claims against us. In addition, we have agreed in some of our contracts, and may in the future agree in other contracts, to indemnify third parties for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the proprietary rights of third parties as it relates to the products we provide. We, or third parties that we are obligated to indemnify, may receive notifications alleging infringements of intellectual property rights relating to our business or the products previously sold by us. Litigation with respect to patents or other intellectual property matters, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in substantial costs and diversion of management and other resources, cause delays or other problems in the marketing and sales of our products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any infringement claim is successful against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages or we may need to seek and obtain a license of the other party’s intellectual property rights. We may be unable to obtain such a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be required to redesign those products that use the infringed technology. Moreover, we may be prohibited from selling, using, or providing any of our products that use the challenged intellectual property. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover us for all liability that may be imposed. Our common stock has a limited trading market, which could limit the liquidity of our common stock and our access to capital markets. Our common stock is currently quoted on both the over-the-counter electronic bulletin board, also referred to as the OTC Bulletin Board, and the National Quotation Service Bureau, also known as the Pink Sheets. There is only limited trading activity in our securities. We do not know if a market for our common stock will be re-established or that, if re-established, a market will be sustained. This could limit the liquidity of our common stock and reduce our stock price. The limited liquidity and reduced price of our common stock could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements acceptable to us or at all. The limited trading market may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our common stock is subject to additional regulation as a “penny stock,” which may reduce the liquidity of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a “penny stock” to be any security that is priced under five dollars. These regulations may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in our common stock and investors in our common stock may find it difficult to sell their shares. We cannot assure you that you will be able to resell our common stock and may lose your investment. In addition, since the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock is also subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend our common stock to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that they: • make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser; and • receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving a penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of purchasers of our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. Revenues in any quarter may vary to the extent recognition of revenue is deferred when contracts are signed. As a result, revenues in any quarter may be difficult to predict and are unreliable indicators of future performance trends. We frequently enter into contracts where we recognize only a portion of the total revenue under the contract in the quarter in which we enter into the contract. For example, we may recognize revenue on a ratable basis over the life of the contract or enter into contracts where the recognition of revenue is conditioned upon delivery of future product or service elements. This is the case with our contracts with CVS, Aramark and Household Financial. The portion of revenues that are deferred may vary significantly in any given quarter, and revenues in any given quarter are a function both of contracts signed in such quarter and contracts signed in prior quarters. We anticipate that product revenues in future quarters will generally be more dependent on revenues from new customer contracts entered into in those quarters rather than from amortization or recognition of product revenues deferred in prior quarters. We sometimes experience long implementation cycles, which may increase our operating costs and delay recognition of revenues. Our products are sophisticated systems that are generally deployed with many users. Implementation of these systems by enterprises is complex, time consuming and expensive. Long implementation cycles may delay the recognition of revenue as some of our customers engage us to perform system implementation services, which can defer revenue recognition for the related product revenue. In addition, when we experience long implementation cycles, we may incur costs at a higher level than anticipated, which may reduce the anticipated profitability of a given implementation. Our costs could substantially increase if we receive a significant number of warranty claims. We generally warrant each of our products against defects in materials and workmanship for a minimum period of 12 months from the date of shipment. If we experience an increase in product returns or warranty claims, we could incur unanticipated additional expenditures for parts and service. In addition, our reputation and goodwill could be damaged, perhaps irreparably. While we have established reserves for liability associated with product warranties, unforeseen warranty exposure in excess of those reserves could adversely affect our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS In a letter from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) dated June 28, 2006, the Staff commented on our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The comments addressed three substantive areas: (1) non-GAAP financial metrics, (2) revenue recognition and (3) shareholders equity. Although we have not yet filed a formal response to these comments, we sent a draft response to the Staff for the purpose of discussing these issues on a conference call. As a result of the discussion on the call, we believe that the only material comment remaining unresolved relates to the proper accounting treatment for certain bundled contracts acquired as part of the acquisition of Vertical Networks. We believe that we are accounting for these contracts properly in conformance with the applicable GAAP guidance, however the former management of Vertical Networks, Inc. accounted for these contracts differently. For additional information related to these contracts, see the “Revenue Recognition” section of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations elsewhere in this report and also our Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed April 20, 2005. 