ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Financial Risks We require additional capital to fund our operations. Any additional financing could result in equity dilution. To date, we have funded our operations primarily through proceeds from the public and private placements of equity securities. We have also funded our operations to a lesser extent from proceeds from the sale of the Witmer Road Facility, property and equipment financing, interest earned on investments, corporate collaborations, and the sale of investments. In March 2007, we sold 21.4 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 9.6 million shares of common stock through a private placement at a price of $2.02 per unit, generating net proceeds of approximately $40.5 million. The warrants have a five-year term and an exercise price of $1.96 per share. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, expected proceeds from collaborations and license arrangements, and interest income should be sufficient to meet our operating and capital requirements into the third quarter of 2009, although changes in our collaborative relationships or our business, whether or not initiated by us, may affect the rate at which we deplete our cash and cash equivalents. Our present and future capital requirements, and our ability to raise additional capital, depend on many factors, including: •level of research and development investment required to develop our therapeutic proteins, and maintain and improve our technology position; •the costs of process development and scale-up of proteins and reagents for research, development and at commercial scale; •the results of non-clinical and clinical testing, which can be unpredictable in drug development, including any failure of a product candidate in clinical development; •the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals, or the failure to obtain any necessary regulatory approvals; •changes in product candidate development plans needed to address any difficulties that may arise in process development, scale-up, manufacturing, non-clinical activities, clinical studies or commercialization; •our ability to enter into new agreements with collaborators and to extend or maintain our existing collaborations, and the terms of these agreements; •the timing of milestone and royalty payments from our collaborators; •the costs and impact of filing, prosecuting, defending, and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, and the costs of investigating patents that might block us from developing potential drug candidates; •disruptions and expenses resulting from our workforce reductions, and the continuing costs of recruiting and retaining qualified personnel; •the timing, willingness, and ability of our collaborators to commercialize products incorporating our technology; •our need or decision to acquire or license complementary technologies or new product candidate targets; and •the evolution of the competitive landscape. 12 We will require significant amounts of additional capital in the future, and we do not have any assurance that funding will be available when we need it on terms that we find favorable, if at all. We may seek to raise these funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, credit facilities, or corporate collaborations and licensing arrangements. In addition, the investors in our March 2007 financing have the right to participate in future capital raising transactions by us until June 2008. The existence of this participation right may reduce or diminish our ability to establish terms with respect to, or enter into, any capital raising transaction with parties other than those investors until this participation right expires in June 2008. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders' percentage ownership will be reduced and they may experience substantial dilution. We may also issue equity securities that provide for rights, preference and privileges senior to those of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may be required to relinquish some rights to our technology or drug candidates, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of opportunities, develop products and technologies, and otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly delayed or limited, and we may need to downsize or halt our operations. We have a history of losses, and we may incur continued losses for some time. We have incurred losses each year of our existence, including net losses of $28.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and $51.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Given our planned level of operating expenses, we expect to continue incurring losses for some time. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $294.8 million. To date, we have derived substantially all of our revenue from corporate collaborations, license agreements, and investments. We expect that substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future will result from these sources and from the licensing of our technology. We also expect to spend significant amounts to continue research and development on our proprietary drug candidates and technology, maintain and expand our intellectual property position, and expand our business development and commercialization efforts. Our level of operating expenditures will vary depending upon the stage of development of our proprietary proteins and the number and nature of our collaborations. We may continue to incur substantial losses even if our revenues increase. We have not yet commercialized any products or technologies, and we may never become profitable. We have not yet commercialized any products or technologies, and we may never be able to do so. Since we began operations in 1990, we have not generated any revenues, except from corporate collaborations, license agreements, and investments. We do not know when or if we will complete any of our product development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates incorporating our technology, or successfully commercialize any approved products. Even if we are successful in developing products that are approved for marketing, we will not be successful unless these products gain market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance of these products will depend on a number of factors, including: •the timing of regulatory approvals in the countries, and for the uses, we seek; •the competitive environment; •the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products; •the adequacy and success of distribution, sales and marketing efforts; and 13 •the pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors, such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend any of our products or products incorporating our technology. As a result, we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or the time required to achieve profitability, if at all. Even if we or our collaborators successfully develop one or more products that incorporate our technology, we may not become profitable. If the estimates we make and the assumptions on which we rely in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary significantly. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges taken by us and related disclosure. Such estimates and judgments include the carrying value of our property, equipment and intangible assets, revenue recognition and the value of certain liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these estimates and judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time, which could require us to restate some of our previously reported financial information. A restatement of previously reported financial information could cause our stock price to decline and could subject us to securities litigation. For a further discussion of the estimates and judgments that we make and the critical accounting policies that affect these estimates and judgments, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Development of Products and Technologies We may be unable to develop next-generation therapeutic proteins. We are seeking to use our enzymatic technology to develop proprietary next-generation proteins, generally in collaboration with a partner. The development of protein drugs involves a range of special challenges at various stages of the process. In the preclinical phase of product development, we and our partners will face several potential problems, including producing or obtaining supplies of the protein on commercially reasonable terms, successfully modifying the protein using our enzymatic technology, and achieving adequate yields of the next-generation protein. Even if a protein development program appears to be proceeding well in the early phases, a product candidate may fail in clinical trials for several reasons, such as results indicating that the product candidate is less effective than desired (e.g., the trial failed to meet its primary objectives) or that it has harmful or problematic side effects. If clinical trials are successful, it is possible that problems may arise later during commercialization, such as the subsequent discovery of adverse side effects or the increase in product category safety concerns after marketing authorization. Before and even after a product is approved for marketing, problems may arise that can negatively affect the market potential and increase the costs of our product development. Our failure to solve any of these problems could delay or prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technology and could negatively impact our business by, among other things, reducing our ability to obtain necessary capital funds or causing us to scale back operations through the discontinuation of research or development activities and/or the reduction of our workforce. 14 Our long-term success depends upon our ability to develop, receive regulatory approval for and commercialize drug product candidates. All of our product candidates are in the development stage and have not received regulatory approval, an important requirement to the commercialization of any product candidate. If we or our collaboration partners fail to complete the development, receive regulatory approvals for and/or commercialize our product candidates, we will not be able to generate revenues from the sale of products resulting from our product candidates. As we or our collaboration partners continue our product development, there is a significant risk that testing will demonstrate that our product candidates are not suitable for commercialization, either because they are unsafe, inefficient, or too costly to manufacture, or because third party competitors market a more clinically effective, safer, or more cost-effective product. Moreover, even if we believe that the clinical data demonstrates the safety and efficacy of a product candidate, regulators may disagree with us, and we could be delayed, limited or prevented from obtaining the required regulatory approval of such product candidate. In addition, regulatory approval may take longer than we expected. The FDA or foreign regulators could at any point forbid us or our collaborators to initiate or continue testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials. There is also the risk that one of our product candidates is later discovered to cause adverse effects that prevent widespread use, require withdrawal from the market, or serve as the basis for product liability claims. If we or our collaboration partners are unable to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates, we will not have a sufficient source of revenue. Moreover, the failure of one or more of our product candidates in clinical development could harm our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to enter into new collaborations and to achieve success under existing collaborations is uncertain. A material component of our business strategy is to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements with third parties to co-develop our products and to commercialize products made using our technology. We also intend to establish collaborative relationships to obtain domestic or international sales, marketing and distribution capabilities for product candidates receiving regulatory approval. We currently have active collaborative agreements with Novo Nordisk and BioGeneriX. We anticipate that substantially all of our revenues during the next several years will continue to be generated from collaboration or license agreements. The process of establishing collaborative relationships is difficult, time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty. Our partnering strategy entails many risks, including: •we may be unsuccessful in entering into or maintaining collaborative agreements for the co-development of our products or the commercialization of products incorporating our technology; •we may not be successful in applying our technology to or otherwise satisfying the needs of our collaborative partners; •our collaborators may not be successful in, or may not remain committed to, co-developing our products or commercializing products incorporating our technology; •our collaborators may seek to develop other proprietary alternatives to our products or technology; •our collaborators may not commit sufficient resources to incorporating our technology into their products; 15 •our collaborators are not obligated to market or commercialize our products or products incorporating our technology, and they are not required to achieve any specific commercialization schedule; •our collaborative agreements may be terminated by our partners on short notice; and •continued consolidation in our target markets may limit our ability to enter into collaboration agreements, or may result in terminations of existing collaborations. Furthermore, even if we do establish collaborative relationships, it may be difficult for us to maintain or perform under such collaboration arrangements, as our funding resources may be limited or our collaborators may seek to renegotiate or terminate their relationships with us due to unsatisfactory clinical results, a change in business strategy, or other reasons. If we or any collaborator fails to fulfill any responsibilities in a timely manner, or at all, our research, clinical development or commercialization efforts related to that collaboration could be delayed or terminated. It may also become necessary for us to assume responsibility for activities that would otherwise have been the responsibility of our collaborator. Further, if we are unable to establish and maintain collaborative relationships on acceptable terms, we may have to delay or discontinue further development of one or more of our product candidates, undertake development and commercialization activities at our own expense or find alternative sources of funding. We depend on our partners and other third parties to conduct our clinical trials. We are highly dependent on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. Our collaborative partners are solely responsible for conducting the clinical trials on our lead product candidates, GlycoPEG-GCSF and Factors VII, VIII and IX. They in turn contract with other third parties, generally referred to as clinical research organizations or CROs, to oversee the operations of such clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis, including finding investigators to conduct the clinical study; encouraging patient enrollment in the study; collecting the data and entering the data into computer systems; cleaning, outputting and analyzing the data from the study; and writing the Clinical Study Report(s). We are subject to the risk that these third parties could fail to perform their obligations properly, in a timely fashion, and/or in compliance with applicable FDA and other governmental regulations. The failure of any of these third parties to perform all of their obligations to us or our partners could substantially delay our development efforts, and delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates. Furthermore, the decision of our partners to delay or discontinue the development of our product candidates would seriously adversely affect our ability to complete the development of those product candidates, and may prevent us or other potential collaborators from commercializing such product candidates. Non-clinical and clinical trial results for our products may not be favorable. In order to obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our product candidates, we must conduct both non-clinical studies and human clinical trials that demonstrate the product is safe and effective for the use for which we are seeking approval. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. For example, Phase II activity may not replicate Phase I results or Phase III efficacy data may not replicate Phase II data. Adverse results from studies, including clinical trials, could have a negative effect on our ability to obtain the approval of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. We and our collaboration partners also may not be permitted to undertake or continue clinical trials for any of our product candidates in the future or may otherwise be unable to do so because acceptable candidates to participate in such trials are unavailable. Even if we or our collaboration partners are able to conduct such trials, we or our collaboration partners may not be able to demonstrate satisfactorily that the products are safe and effective and thus qualify for the regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize them. 16 Safety and efficacy results from non-clinical studies involving animals and other models and from early clinical trials are often not accurate indicators of results of later-stage clinical trials that involve larger human populations, and, moreover, may not always be representative of results obtained while marketing an approved drug, particularly with regard to safety. Unfavorable results of clinical trials conducted by our competitors or other biotechnology companies could also adversely affect our ability to gain regulatory approval of our product candidates by increasing government examination and complexity of clinical trials. Government and public concerns over safety issues associated with pharmaceutical and biological products could potentially result in termination of clinical trials on entire classes of drug candidates, lengthen the trial process for product categories, increase legal and production costs relating to certain drug categories, and/or expand the safety labeling for approved products. Our and our partners' clinical trials may be delayed. One potential cause of a delay in product development is a delay in clinical trials. Many factors could delay clinical trials, including, without limitation: •the failure to obtain or maintain regulatory clearance to conduct clinical trials; •insufficient supplies of clinical trial materials; •slow rate of patient enrollment and early discontinuation of patient participation; •adverse events occurring during clinical trials; •adverse results from non-clinical studies; and •changes in regulatory requirements. We have no commercial manufacturing capability and rely on third parties to manufacture our product candidates and the materials used to make them. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or the development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our proteins, enzymes, sugar nucleotides and other reagents needed to produce and commercialize our technology. We are typically responsible under our collaboration agreements for the supply of reagents and other materials required for the collaborations. Since we currently have no manufacturing capability of our own, we are highly dependent on contract manufacturers to produce these materials for us or our collaborators for non-clinical, clinical and/or commercial purposes. Our success depends on our ability to have these compounds manufactured on a commercial scale or to obtain commercial quantities, in either case, at reasonable cost. We may not be able to procure sufficient quantities of the products we develop, or the materials used to make them, to meet our or our collaborators' needs for non-clinical or clinical development or commercialization. We may compete with other parties for access to manufacturing facilities and suitable alternatives may be unavailable to us. As a result, our product candidates may suffer delays in manufacture if our CMOs give other products greater priority than our product candidates or the materials needed to make them. It is time-consuming and expensive to change contract manufacturers for pharmaceutical products, particularly when the products are under regulatory review in a New Drug Application process. If we fail to maintain essential manufacturing and service relationships, we may not be able to replace an important CMO or to develop our own manufacturing capabilities, either of which could impede our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products candidates and delay or prevent our or our collaborators' product development and commercialization. If we do find replacement CMOs, we may not be able to enter into agreements with them on terms and conditions favorable to us and, there could be a considerable delay before a new facility could be qualified and registered with the appropriate authorities. If we encounter delays or difficulties in connection with manufacturing, commercialization of our products and technology could 17 be delayed, we could breach our obligations under our collaborative agreements and we could have difficulty obtaining necessary financing. The manufacture of our product candidates is a complex and highly-regulated process. If any of our CMOs encounters problems manufacturing materials for us, our business could suffer. The FDA and foreign regulators require manufacturers to register manufacturing facilities. The FDA and foreign regulators also inspect these facilities to confirm compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) or similar requirements that the FDA or foreign regulators establish. The manufacture of product candidates and key reagents at any facility will be subject to strict quality control, testing, and record keeping requirements, and continuing obligations regarding the submission of safety reports and other post-market information. Ultimately, we, our CMOs, or other suppliers may not meet these requirements. Our CMOs may face manufacturing or quality control problems causing product production and shipment delays or a situation where we or they may not be able to maintain compliance with the FDA's cGMP requirements, or those of foreign regulators, necessary to continue manufacturing our product candidates and materials. Any failure to comply with cGMP requirements or other FDA or foreign regulatory requirements could adversely affect our clinical research activities and our ability to market and develop our products candidates. Additionally, we and the third parties with whom we contract to manufacture our proteins face the significant, normal scale-up risks associated with protein manufacturing: proteins are difficult to produce; it is difficult to scale up protein manufacturing processes; and it is expensive to produce proteins. These process manufacturing and/or regulatory problems could increase the cost, delay the timeline, or render unfeasible the commercial launch of our product candidates. Proteins are uniquely susceptible to neutralizing antibodies that could result in diminished efficacy of our products. Proteins that are foreign to a living body often provoke an immune response. Protein drugs produced by recombinant technology, even though they have the same primary amino acid sequence as a native human protein, sometimes provoke formation of antibodies that bind to the protein drug. Some such antibodies bind so as to prevent the protein drug from engaging its receptor, and thus neutralize the drug activity of the protein. Furthermore, neutralizing antibodies provoked by administration of a protein drug may react with endogenous proteins whose natural activity the drug was intended to supplement, thereby inducing a total lack of both therapeutic and natural activities in the patient. Such a condition can prove fatal. We will not know if the proteins we develop as product candidates will provoke neutralizing antibody responses in humans until they are evaluated in clinical trials. It is possible that our product candidates may be rendered ineffective for the therapeutic purpose for which they are intended or could induce harm to patients because of the neutralizing effect of antibodies to endogenous proteins in humans in response to our proteins. Additionally, all protein drugs, or reagents used in the manufacture of the protein drugs, that are expressed by recombinant technology retain some trace of contaminating proteins from the host cells used to express the protein drug. These host cell proteins may increase the chances of an immunogenic response that could diminish the therapeutic efficacy of the protein. Developments in our product categories may adversely affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Our business focus is on the development of next-generation therapeutic proteins that we believe will be competitive with best-in-class protein drugs currently on the market. Because we seek to introduce products into already established markets, we are subject to the positive and negative effects of those marketplaces, including public and regulatory developments related to the product categories as a whole. For instance, the success of a large number of competitive products in our product categories would likely reduce or eliminate the commercial opportunity for our product candidates. 18 (See the risk factor in this report entitled "Our competitors may develop better or more successful products.") Likewise, the failure or negative results of products similar to ours could diminish the commercial opportunity for our product candidates by, among other factors, increasing public safety concerns or imposing governmental restrictions applicable to all products in the drug category. Failed or less than favorable clinical trial results of other drugs in our product categories could adversely affect our ability to gain regulatory approval of our product candidates by increasing government examination and complexity of clinical trials. Government and public concerns over safety issues associated with pharmaceutical and biological products could potentially result in termination of clinical trials on entire classes of drug candidates, lengthen the trial process for product categories, increase legal and production costs relating to certain drug categories, and/or expand the safety labeling for approved products. Such was the case with our NE-180 product candidate, which suffered from the increased safety concerns in the ESA drug category, resulting in that product candidate's decreased marketability and our discontinuation of its development. We may be exposed to product liability and related risks. The use in humans of compounds developed by us or incorporating our technology may result in product liability claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend, and may result in large settlements of claims or judgments against us. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity, time, and expense involved in defending such a claim may interfere with our business. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Blocking patents or claims of infringement may stop or delay the development of our proprietary products. Our commercial success depends in part on avoiding claims of infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties. We have devoted significant resources to investigating the patent protection surrounding the proteins that are the subject of our development programs. The numerous patents, each with multiple claims, may be difficult to uncover and interpret, leading to uncertainty about our freedom to operate. It is possible that we will not be aware of issued patents or pending patent applications that are relevant to our product candidates because our searches do not find them, or pending patent applications because they are not yet publicly available. Our interpretation of patents could be challenged, leading to litigation, and we could face claims of infringement of rights of which we are unaware. There have been significant litigation and interference proceedings regarding patent rights, and the patent situation regarding particular products is often complex and uncertain. As we proceed with the development of our product candidates, we may face uncertainty and litigation could result, which could lead to liability for damages, prevent our development and commercialization efforts, and divert resources from our business strategy. The cost of any litigation challenging our right to pursue our target proteins or technology could be substantial. Others seeking to develop next-generation versions of proteins, or the holders of patents on our target proteins, may have greater financial resources, making them better able to bear the cost of litigation. In particular, one company that produces products that will likely be in direct competition with our current product candidates has aggressively defended the patents related to its products and this could increase the likelihood of litigation or the cost of litigation. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop, manufacture, and market products, form strategic alliances, and compete in the marketplace. 19 Third parties from time to time may assert that we are infringing their patents, trade secrets or know-how. In addition, our technology may infringe patents that may issue in the future to third parties. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our partners against any such claims. Furthermore, parties making such claims may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability or our partners' ability to further develop or commercialize some or all of our products or technology in the U.S. and abroad, and could result in the award of substantial damages. If we are found to infringe, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties or be unable to proceed. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required license could have a material adverse effect on us. The failure to obtain, maintain or protect patents and other intellectual property could impact our ability to compete effectively. To compete effectively, we need to develop and maintain a proprietary position with regard to our own technology, products and business. We are seeking to develop patent protection for therapeutic proteins that include numerous claims for composition of matter, methods of use, and methods of making. Legal standards relating to the validity and scope of claims in our technology field are still evolving. Therefore, the degree of future protection in the U.S. and other countries for our proprietary rights in our core technology and products made using this technology is also uncertain. The risks and uncertainties that we face with respect to our patents and other proprietary rights include the following: •the pending patent applications we have filed, or to which we have exclusive rights, may not result in issued patents, or may take longer than we expect to result in issued patents; •changes in U.S. or foreign patent laws may adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain our patent protection; •we may be subject to interference proceedings; •we may be subject to opposition proceedings in foreign countries; •the claims of any patents that are issued may not provide meaningful protection; •we may not be able to develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; •the patents licensed or issued to us or our collaborators may not provide a competitive advantage; •other companies may challenge patents licensed or issued to us or our collaborators; •other companies may independently develop similar or alternative technologies, or duplicate our technology; •other companies may design around technologies we have licensed or developed; and •enforcement of patents is complex, uncertain and expensive. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued as a result of any of our pending applications, and we cannot be certain that any of our issued patents will give us adequate protection from competing products. For example, issued patents may be circumvented or challenged, declared invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope. In addition, since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make our inventions or to file patent applications covering those inventions. In the event that another party has also filed a patent application relating to an invention claimed by us, we may be required to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial uncertainties and costs for us, even if the eventual outcome were favorable to us. It is also possible that others may obtain issued patents that 20 could prevent us from commercializing our products or require us to obtain licenses requiring the payment of significant fees or royalties in order to enable us to conduct our business. As to those patents that we have licensed, our rights depend on maintaining our obligations to the licensor under the applicable license agreement, and we may be unable to do so. Furthermore, patent protection available to us may vary in different jurisdictions. In particular, the laws in some countries provide little patent protection. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding relating to our patents or applications, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Our ability to enforce our patent protection could be limited by our financial resources, and may be subject to lengthy delays. If we are unable to effectively enforce our proprietary rights, or if we are found to infringe the rights of others, we may be in breach of our license agreements with our partners. In addition to patents and patent applications, we depend upon trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our proprietary technology. We require our employees, consultants, advisors, and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information to any other parties. We require our employees and consultants to disclose and assign to us their ideas, developments, discoveries, and inventions. These agreements may not, however, provide adequate protection for our trade secrets, know-how, or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. We may have to develop or license alternative technologies if we are unable to maintain or obtain key technology from third parties. We have licensed patents and patent applications from a number of institutions. Some of our proprietary rights have been licensed to us under agreements that have performance requirements or other contingencies. The failure to comply with these provisions could lead to termination or modifications of our rights to these licenses. Additionally, we may need to obtain additional licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties to facilitate development of our proprietary technology base. The ownership of patents exclusively licensed to us may be subject to challenge if inventorship was not adequately investigated and represented. If our existing licenses are terminated or if we are unable to obtain such additional licenses on acceptable terms, our ability to perform our own research and development and to comply with our obligations under our collaborative agreements may be delayed while we seek to develop or license alternative technologies. Risks Related to Competition Our competitors may develop better or more successful products. Our business is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. New developments in molecular biology, medicinal chemistry and other fields of biology and chemistry are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia. Our potential competitors include both public and private pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations that are also conducting research activities and seeking patent protection. A number of these competitors are working on the development of next-generation protein therapeutics. Some companies have programs focused on developing next-generation or improved versions of G-CSF and Factors VIIa, VIII and IX, and some are already marketing improved versions of these products. These companies include Amgen, Maxygen, CoGenesys, Bayer Healthcare, Wyeth and Biogen Idec. Other companies are active in this area, and we expect that competition will increase. In addition, we may compete with companies commercializing first-generation protein therapeutics, as a result of pricing practices or reimbursement limitations. Even if we succeed in developing and marketing products that have significant advantages over first-generation products, if first-generation 21 products are available at a lower out-of-pocket cost to the consumer, health-care providers and consumers may choose first-generation products instead of next-generation versions. Compared to us, many of our likely and potential competitors have more: •financial, scientific and technical resources; •product development, manufacturing and marketing capabilities; •experience conducting non-clinical studies and clinical trials of new products; and •experience in obtaining regulatory approvals for products. Competitors may succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective or less costly than ours and that would render our products or technology, or both, obsolete or noncompetitive. We know that other companies with substantial resources are working on the development of next-generation proteins, and they may achieve better results in enzymatically modifying our target proteins or the target proteins of our potential collaborators. Competitors also may prove to be more successful in designing, manufacturing and marketing products. If we are successful in developing our own drug candidates or versions of drugs that are no longer patented, we will compete with other drug manufacturers for market share. If we are unable to compete successfully, our commercial opportunities will be diminished. In addition, while there is no proven abbreviated regulatory pathway for follow-on biologics, this possibility is under discussion in the U.S. and other jurisdictions and has been adopted in part in Europe. If an abbreviated regulatory process is adopted for the approval of follow-on biologics in any major market, competition could increase in related segments of the therapeutic protein market. We may be unable to retain key employees or recruit additional qualified personnel. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, including our research and development team. The advancement of our business is dependent upon our management team's ability to evaluate collaboration opportunities and on their ability to focus our company's efforts. Our anticipated research and development activities will require a sustained level of expertise and the retention and/or addition of experienced personnel. There is intense competition for qualified management and research and development personnel in the biotechnology field. In addition, we have a history of operating losses and declines in our stock price and cash position, and we have implemented four workforce reductions in the past few years. Manpower may be constrained in certain areas of our business, and the departures of existing personnel could be disruptive, and lead to the departure of other employees. These factors may affect employee morale and retention, including making us a target of recruitment agencies seeking to hire our highly specialized personnel. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our research and development programs and our ability to manage day-to-day operations, attract collaboration partners, attract and retain other employees, and generate revenues. We do not maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our employees. 22 Risks Related to Government Regulation We are subject to extensive government regulation, and we or our collaborators may not obtain necessary regulatory approvals or may encounter long delays and large expenditures in obtaining such approvals. The research, development, manufacture and control, marketing, and sale of our reagents and product candidates manufactured using our technology are subject to significant, but varying, degrees of regulation by a number of government authorities in the U.S. and other countries. Pharmaceutical product candidates manufactured using our technology must undergo an extensive regulatory approval process before commercialization. This process is regulated by the FDA and by comparable agencies in Europe and in other countries. The U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial discretion to delay or withhold approval of the initiation of clinical trials, terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, and mandate product withdrawals. In addition, the U.S. or other regulatory agencies could, at any time in the regulatory approval process, place the regulatory submission for a product candidate on "hold" pending the receipt, review and approval of additional information. We and our collaborators intend to base our submissions for regulatory approval and the information contained in such submissions on our understanding of the requirements of the FDA and its foreign counterparts. If additional information is required in other jurisdictions, including EMEA countries, or if the submitted information is deemed insufficient, we may face delays and additional costs. Neither we nor our collaborators have submitted any product candidates incorporating our technology for marketing approval to the FDA or any other regulatory authority. If any product candidate manufactured using our technology is submitted for regulatory approval, it may not receive the approvals necessary for commercialization, the desired labeling claims, or adequate levels of reimbursement. Any delay in receiving, or failure to receive, these approvals would adversely affect our ability to generate product revenues or royalties, and we will have already spent significant sums in pursuing approval. We anticipate that the development of our next-generation proprietary proteins will involve a traditional development program, including clinical trials. Any new governmental regulations may delay or alter regulatory approval of any product candidate manufactured using our technology. If an abbreviated regulatory process is adopted for the approval of follow-on biologics in any major market, competition could increase in related segments of the therapeutic protein market. We cannot predict the impact of adverse governmental action that might arise from future legislative and administrative action. Even if we or our collaborators are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates, our or their manufacturing processes will be subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Any later discovery of unknown problems with our products, products incorporating our technology, or manufacturing processes could result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, including potential withdrawal of the products from the market. In addition, if regulatory authorities determine that we or our collaborators have not complied with regulations in the research and development of a product candidate or the manufacture and control of our product candidates or the materials used to make them, then we or our collaborators may not obtain necessary approvals to market and sell the product candidate. Third-party reimbursement for our collaborators' or our future product candidates may not be adequate. Even if regulatory approval is obtained to sell any product candidates incorporating our technology, our future revenues, profitability, and access to capital will be determined in part by the price at which we or our collaborators can sell such products. There are continuing efforts by 23 governmental and private third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. We expect a number of federal, state, and foreign proposals to control the cost of drugs through governmental regulation. We are unsure of the form that any health care reform legislation may take or what actions federal, state, foreign, and private payors may take in response to the proposed reforms. Therefore, we cannot predict the effect of any implemented reform on our business. Our and our collaborators' ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., private health insurers, and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Adequate third-party coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product research and development. Inadequate coverage and reimbursement levels provided by government and third-party payors for use of our or our collaborators' products may cause these products to fail to achieve market acceptance and would cause us to lose anticipated revenues and delay achievement of profitability. It is possible that reimbursement may be limited to that which is available for first-generation versions of one or more of our or our collaborator's products, making it harder for us and our collaborators to realize an appropriate return. Risk Related to Stock Market and Foreign Exchange Rates We currently fail to meet one of Nasdaq's listing requirements and if our common stock is delisted it could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on the Global Market of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. On February 19, 2008, we received a Staff Deficiency Letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC stating that for the last 30 consecutive business days the bid price of our common stock has closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Market, and consequently we are not in compliance with the requirements for continued listing of our common stock. If we fail to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement prior to August 18, 2008, or if at any time we fail to satisfy any of the other requirements for continued listing, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. If delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock will likely be quoted in the over-the-counter market in the so-called "pink sheets" or quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board. In addition, our common stock would be subject to the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 relating to "penny stocks." These rules require brokers who sell securities that are subject to the rules, and who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors, to complete required documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with information concerning the risks of trading in the security. These requirements could make it more difficult to buy or sell our common stock in the open market. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. Our stock price may continue to experience fluctuations. The market prices of securities of thinly-traded biotechnology companies such as ours generally are highly volatile. For example, since January 1, 2007, the price of our common stock reached a high of $3.00 per share in April 2007 and a low of $0.47 per share on March 7, 2008. 24 In this market environment, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such a sale might occur would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, at least for the short term. We have a number of investors who hold relatively large positions in our securities. A decision by any of these investors to sell all or a block of their holdings of our common stock could cause our stock price to drop significantly. The market also continues to experience significant price and volume fluctuations, some of which are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In recent years, the price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. Many factors could have a significant effect on the market price for our common stock, including: •non-clinical and clinical trial results; •product development delays; •regulatory delays; •discontinuation of the development program for a product candidate; •an announcement or termination of a collaborative relationship by us or any of our partners or competitors; •developments relating to our patent position or other proprietary rights; •announcements of technological innovations or new therapeutic products; •government regulations; •public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others; and •general market conditions. Any litigation brought against us as a result of this volatility could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources, which could negatively impact our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities in a fluctuating market, many or all of our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, and if we need to raise capital by issuing equity securities at a time when our stock price is down, we may have difficulty raising sufficient capital to meet our requirements. If any of the risks described in these "Risk Factors" occurred, of if any unforeseen risk affected our performance, it could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could result in increased costs. We have entered into some agreements denominated, wholly or partly, in Euros or other foreign currencies, and, in the future, we may enter into additional, significant agreements denominated in foreign currencies. If the values of these currencies increase against the dollar, our costs would increase. To date, we have not entered into any contracts to reduce the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In the future, depending upon the amounts payable under any such agreements, we may enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs. However, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under any such agreements, foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results. 25 Risks Related to Facilities, Business Interruption, and the Environment The use of hazardous materials in our operations may subject us to environmental claims or liability. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, and radioactive compounds. We conduct experiments that are quite common in the biotechnology industry, in which we use small quantities of corrosive, toxic and flammable chemicals, and trace amounts of radioactive materials. The risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials cannot be entirely eliminated. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. In the event of an accident or environmental discharge, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. Destructive actions by activists or terrorists could damage our facilities, interfere with our research activities, and cause ecological harm. Activists and terrorists have shown a willingness to injure people and damage physical facilities, equipment and biological materials to publicize or otherwise further their ideological causes. Our or our collaborators' operations and research activities, and manufacturing and other services conducted for us by third parties, could be adversely affected by such acts. Any such damage could delay our research projects and decrease our ability to conduct future research and development. Damage caused by activist or terrorist incidents could also cause the release of hazardous materials, including chemicals, radioactive and biological materials. Any significant interruption to our ability to conduct our business operations, research and development activities, or supply activities could reduce our revenue and increase our expenses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 