Item 1A. Risk Factors. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, important risk factors are identified below that could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause the Company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed with respect to such future periods in any current statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking announcements to reflect future events or circumstances. Dependence on Major Customers Sales to one customer, a major laboratory equipment distributor in the United States, represented 10.5% and 14.6% of the segment's sales for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. Sales to another customer, an overseas laboratory equipment distributor also accounted for 12.1% and 11.8% of the sales of Benchtop Laboratory Equipment for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. No representation can be made that the Company will be successful in continuing to retain either or both customers, the loss of which could have an adverse effect on future operating results of the Company. One Benchtop Laboratory Equipment Product Accounts for a Substantial Portion of Revenues The Company has a limited number of Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products with one product, the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer, accounting for approximately 63% and 68% of Benchtop Laboratory Equipment sales, for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 respectively, and 42% and 52% of total sales for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. The Company is a Small Participant in Each of the Industries in Which It Operates The Benchtop Laboratory Equipment industry is a highly competitive mature industry. Although the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer has been widely accepted, the annual sales of the Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products ($4,160,500 for fiscal 2012 and $4,525,100 for fiscal 2011) are significantly lower than the annual sales of many of its competitors in the industry. The principal competitors are substantially larger with much greater financial, production and marketing resources than the Company. There are constant new entrants into the vortex mixer market, including those offering products imported from China. 8 The production and sale of Catalyst Research Instruments products is highly competitive. Altamira's competitors include several companies with greater resources and many laboratories which produce their own instruments. The Company's Bioprocessing Systems operation is a participant in the fast-growing laboratory-scale sector of the larger bioprocessing products industry, which is dominated by several large companies with much greater resources than the Company. The Company's Ability to Grow and Compete Effectively Depends In Part on Its Ability to Develop and Effectively Market New Products Over the past ten years, the Company has continuously invested in the development and marketing of new Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products with a view to increasing revenues and reducing the Company's dependence on the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer. Gross revenues derived from such other Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products (those other than the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer) increased to $1,545,400 for fiscal 2012 from $1,484,000, for fiscal 2011. However, the segment's ability to compete will depend upon the Company's success in continuing to develop and market new laboratory equipment as to which no assurance can be given. The Company relies primarily on distributors and their catalogs to market its Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products, as is customary in the industry. Accordingly, sales of new products are heavily dependent on the distributors' decision to include and retain a new product in the distributors' catalogs and on their websites. It may be at least 24 to 36 months between the completion of development of a product and the distribution of the catalog in which it is first offered; not all distributors feature the Company's products in their catalogs. In fiscal 2010, the Company hired a new sales manager to bolster its sales efforts in the United States, and in fiscal 2011, the Company engaged a consultant overseas as its European Sales Manager. The Company's Catalyst Research Instruments line of products consists of only a few products. The ability of the Company to compete in this segment and expand the line will depend on its ability to make engineering improvements to existing products and develop and add new products incorporating more current technology. Over the last two fiscal years the Company has introduced two new catalyst research products to increase its product offerings and has continuously sought to expand its outside sales force. The success of the Company's new Bioprocessing Systems operation will be heavily dependent on its ability to develop and market new products. New products are being or are to be developed under research and development agreements with the sellers of the SBI assets augmented by the Company's other internal and external resources. Such products are of a complex nature of which the Company does not have previous experience. They will be subject to beta testing by end users, which could result in design and/or production changes which could delay development time. The sale and marketing of the products, at least initially, will be through the Company's attendance at trade shows, website, and a few select distributors. No assurance can be given that the amounts allocated by the Company for its new product development and sales and marketing programs will be sufficient to develop additional commercially feasible products which will be accepted by the marketplace, or that any distributor will include or retain any particular product in their catalogs and websites. 9 The Company May Be Subject to General Economic, Political, and Social Factors Orders for the Company's products, particularly its Catalyst Research Instruments products, depend in part, on the customer's ability to secure funds to finance purchases. Availability of funds can be affected by budgetary constraints. Factors including a general economic recession, such as the one which commenced in fiscal 2009 and negatively affected the Company since fiscal 2011, the European crisis, or major terrorist attack would likely have a negative impact on the availability of funding including government or academic grants to potential customers. The Company's ability to secure new Catalyst Research Instruments orders can also be affected by changes in domestic and international policies pertaining to energy and the environment, which could affect funding of potential customers. The Company is Heavily Dependent on Outside Suppliers for the Components of Its Products The Company purchases all its components from outside suppliers and relies on a few single suppliers for certain of its Benchtop Laboratory Equipment components, including the Vortex-Genie 2, mostly due to cost considerations. Many of the Company's suppliers, including United States vendors, produce the components directly or indirectly in overseas factories, and orders are subject to long lead times and potential other risks related to production in a foreign country. To minimize the risk of supply shortages, the Company keeps more than normal quantities on hand of the critical components that cannot easily be procured or, where feasible and cost effective, purchases are made from more than one supplier. The Company's Ability to Compete Depends in Part on Its Ability To Secure and Maintain Proprietary Rights to its Products The Company has no patent protection for its principal Benchtop Laboratory Equipment product, the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer, or for its Catalyst Research products and limited patent protection on a few other Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products. There are several competitive products available in the marketplace possessing similar technical specifications and design. As part of the asset purchase by SBI during fiscal 2012, the Company acquired the rights to various patents for bioprocessing products which it licenses from UMBC. There can be no assurance that any patent issued, licensed or sublicensed to the Company provides or will provide the Company with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products or design around the patents. Any of the foregoing activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, the enforcement by the Company of its patent or license rights may require substantial litigation costs. The Company Has Limited Management Resources The loss of the services of any of Ms. Helena Santos, the Company's Chief Executive and Financial Officer and President, Mr. Robert Nichols, the Company's Executive Vice President and Mr. Brookman March, President of Altamira, or any material expansion of the Company's operations could place a significant additional strain on the Company's limited management resources and could be materially adverse to the Company's operating results and financial condition. 10 The Common Stock of the Company is Thinly Traded and is Subject to Volatility As of August 31, 2012, there were only 1,335,712 shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding, of which 326,772 shares (24%) were held by the directors and officers of the Company. The Common Stock of the Company is traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and, historically, has been thinly traded. There have been a number of trading days during fiscal 2012 on which no trades of the Company's Common Stock were reported. Accordingly, the market price for the Common Stock is subject to great volatility. 