Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statements Relating to Forward-Looking Information We have made, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, forward-looking statements relating to developments, results, conditions or other events we expect or anticipate will occur. These statements may relate to revenues, earnings, store openings, business strategy, general economic conditions, market conditions and the competitive environment. The words “believe,” “may,” “might,” “will,” “estimate,” “intend,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “plan” and similar expressions as they relate to the Company, or future or conditional verbs, such as “will,” “should,” “would,” “may” and “could,” are intended to identify forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on management’s then-current views and assumptions and we undertake no obligation to update them. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those projected. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. An investment in our securities carries certain risks. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and other risks which may be disclosed in our filings with the SEC before investing in our securities. There can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and global economy. Historically, we have generated cash flow from operating activities and used supplemental borrowings under our credit facilities to provide the liquidity we need to operate our business. The recent downturn in the global economy and distress in the financial markets have resulted in extreme volatility in the capital markets. The potential tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for us to access funds, to refinance our existing indebtedness, to enter into agreements for new indebtedness or to obtain funding through the issuance of securities and could potentially increase our borrowing costs. If such conditions were to persist, we would seek alternative sources of liquidity, but there can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining such additional liquidity. As a result, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they become due. General economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Consumer spending habits, including spending for the merchandise that we sell, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, prevailing interest rates and credit terms, housing costs, energy costs, income tax rates and policies, inflation, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. In addition, consumer purchasing patterns may be influenced by consumers’ disposable income, credit availability and debt levels. A continued or incremental slowdown in the United States’ economy or an uncertain economic outlook could adversely affect consumer spending habits, resulting in lower net sales and profits, including the potential write-down of the current valuation of long-lived assets, intangible assets and deferred tax assets. Our vendors, landlords, lenders and other business partners could also be adversely affected by difficult economic conditions. This, in turn, could impact us through increasing the risk of bankruptcy of our vendors, landlords, lenders and business partners, increasing the cost of goods, creating a void in product, reducing access to liquid funds or credit, increasing the cost of credit or other impacts which we are unable to fully anticipate. 8 Increases in the price of merchandise, raw materials, fuel and labor or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and negatively impact our financial results. We are beginning to experience increases in our merchandise, raw materials, fuel and labor costs. Fluctuations in the price and availability of fuel, labor and raw materials, such as cotton, have not materially affected our cost of goods in recent years, but an inability to mitigate these cost increases, unless sufficiently offset with retail pricing adjustments, might cause a decrease in our profitability. Related retail pricing adjustments, however, might cause a decline in our sales volume. Additionally, any decrease in the availability of raw materials could impair our ability to meet our purchasing requirements in a timely manner. Both the increased cost and lower availability of merchandise, raw materials, fuel and labor may also have an adverse impact on our cash and working capital needs as well as those of our suppliers. We conduct our operations in a highly competitive retail environment which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other department stores and many other retailers, including store-based, mail-order and internet retailers. Many of our competitors have financial and marketing resources that greatly exceed ours. The principal competitive factors in our business are price, quality and selection of merchandise, reputation, store location, advertising and customer service. We cannot ensure that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors, or that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors during periods of weak consumer confidence or economic instability will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our expansion into new markets served by our competitors and the entry of new competitors into, or expansion of existing competitors in, our markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain key vendor and factor relationships may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent to a significant degree upon close relationships with our vendors and their factors and our ability to purchase brand name merchandise at competitive prices and terms. The loss of key vendor and factor support could have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire brand name merchandise at competitive prices or on competitive terms in the future. For example, certain merchandise that is high profile and in high demand may be allocated by vendors based upon the vendors’ internal criteria, which are beyond our control. In addition, vendors and factors may potentially seek assurances to protect against non-payment of amounts due to them. If we experience declining operating performance, and if we experience severe liquidity challenges, vendors and factors may demand that we accelerate our payment for their products. These demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flow and result in a severe diminishment of our liquidity. Under such circumstances, borrowings under our senior secured credit facility could reach maximum levels, in which case we would take actions to obtain additional liquidity. However, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining such additional liquidity. As a result, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they become due. In addition, if our vendors are unable to access liquidity or become insolvent, they could be unable to supply us with product or continue with their support of our advertising and promotional programs. Any such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to acquire merchandise or obtain vendor allowances in support of our advertising and promotional programs, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition or cash flow. 9 Our debt could adversely affect our financial condition. As of January 29, 2011, we had total debt of $930.5 million, which is subject to restrictions and financial covenants. This could have important consequences to our investors. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to borrow money or sell equity to fund future working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and other general corporate requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the retail industry; • make it more difficult for us to meet our debt service obligations in the event there is a substantial increase in interest rates because the debt under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at fluctuating rates; • restrict our ability to make certain types of investments, pay dividends, or sell all of our assets or merge or consolidate with another company; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors that have less debt. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our ability to replenish inventory at competitive prices and terms, generate sales and maintain our stores. If we do not generate sufficient cash from our operations to service our debt obligations, we may need to take one or more actions, including refinancing our debt, obtaining additional financing, selling assets, obtaining additional equity capital, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures. We cannot be certain that our cash flow will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. Debt under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at a floating rate. Accordingly, changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations. A higher interest rate on our debt would adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or if we default under our credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accumulated and unpaid interest and other fees, immediately due and payable, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our discretion in some matters is limited by the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facility and mortgage loan facility agreements and in the indenture that governs our senior unsecured notes, and any default on our senior secured credit facility, mortgage loan facility or the indenture that governs the senior unsecured notes could harm our business, profitability and growth prospects. The agreements that govern our senior secured credit facility and mortgage loan facility, and the indenture that governs our senior unsecured notes, contain a number of covenants that limit the discretion of our management with respect to certain business matters and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions. The senior secured credit facility, the mortgage loan facility and the indenture, among other things, restrict our ability to: • incur additional debt or issue guarantees of debt; • sell preferred stock; 10 • create liens; • make restricted payments (including the payment of dividends or the repurchase of our common stock); • make certain types of investments; • sell stock in our restricted subsidiaries; • pay dividends or make payments from subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • sell all or substantially all of our assets or merge or consolidate with another company. Our senior secured credit facility contains a financial covenant that requires the minimum excess availability under the facility be at least the greater of (1) 10% of the lesser of (a) the aggregate commitments under the facility and (b) the aggregate borrowing base and (2) $50.0 million at all times. Our ability to borrow funds for any purpose depends on our satisfying this requirement. If we fail to comply with the financial covenant or the other restrictions contained in our senior secured credit facility, mortgage loan facility or the indenture that governs our senior unsecured notes, an event of default would occur. An event of default could result in the acceleration of our debt due to the cross-default provisions within our debt agreements. If the debt is accelerated, we would not have, and may not be able to obtain, sufficient funds to repay our debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the terms of our proprietary credit card program, including any future regulatory requirements, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our proprietary credit card program is operated, under agreement, by HSBC. HSBC issues our proprietary credit cards to our customers and we receive a percentage of the net credit sales thereunder. The inability or unwillingness of HSBC to provide support for our proprietary credit card program under similar terms or conditions as exist today may result in a decrease in credit card sales to our customers and a loss of revenues attributable to payments from HSBC. In addition, if our agreement with HSBC is terminated under circumstances in which we are unable to quickly and adequately contract with a comparable replacement vendor, our customers who have accounts under our proprietary credit card program will be unable to use their cards. This would likely result in a decrease in sales to such customers, a loss of the revenues attributable to the payments from HSBC and an adverse effect on customer goodwill, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “CARD Act”) mandates fundamental changes to many credit card business practices, including marketing, underwriting, pricing and billing. At this time, it is difficult to assess the impact of the provisions of the CARD Act on our agreement with HSBC. The changes could make it more difficult for HSBC to extend credit to our customers and collect payments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our pension costs could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. Significant decreases in the fair value of plan assets, investment losses on plan assets and changes in interest rates have affected and could further affect the funded status of our plans and could increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. A significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. 11 We may not be able to accurately predict customer-based trends and effectively manage our inventory levels, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is difficult to predict what and how much merchandise consumers will want. A substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make correct trend decisions. Failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, spending patterns and other lifestyle decisions, particularly given the long lead times for ordering much of our merchandise, could adversely affect our long-term relationships with our customers. Our managers focus on inventory levels and balance these levels with inventory plans and reviews of trends; however, if our inventories become too large, we may have to “mark down” or decrease our sales prices, and we may be required to sell a significant amount of unsold inventory at discounted prices or even below cost. An inability to find qualified domestic and international vendors and fluctuations in the exchange rate with countries in which our international vendors are located could adversely affect our business. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. Our ability to find qualified vendors and source products in a timely and cost-effective manner, including obtaining vendor allowances in support of our advertising and promotional programs, represents a significant challenge. The availability of products and the ultimate costs of buying and selling these products, including advertising and promotional costs, are not completely within our control and could increase our merchandise and operating costs. Additionally, costs and other factors specific to imported merchandise, such as trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs, are beyond our control and could restrict the availability of imported merchandise or significantly increase the costs of our merchandise and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conditions in, and the United States’ relationship with, the countries where we source our merchandise could adversely affect our business. A majority of our merchandise is manufactured outside of the United States. Political instability or other events resulting in the disruption of trade from the countries where our merchandise is manufactured or the imposition of additional regulations relating to, or duties upon, the merchandise we import could cause significant delays or interruptions in the supply of our merchandise or increase our costs. If we are forced to source merchandise from other countries, those goods may be more expensive than, or of inferior quality to, the merchandise we now sell. If we are unable to adequately replace the merchandise we currently source with merchandise produced elsewhere, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal. Our business is subject to seasonal influences, with a major portion of sales and income historically realized during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the holiday season. This seasonality causes our operating results to vary considerably from quarter to quarter and could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. We must carry a significant amount of inventory, especially before the peak selling periods. If we are not successful in selling our inventory, especially during our peak selling periods, we may be forced to rely on markdowns, vendor support or promotional sales to dispose of the inventory or we may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Weather conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. Because a significant portion of our business is apparel sales and subject to weather conditions in our markets, our operating results may be unexpectedly and adversely affected by inclement weather. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms might make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Extended periods of unseasonable temperatures in our markets, potentially during our peak seasons, could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions, reduce sales and adversely affect our business. Our business could be significantly disrupted if we cannot retain or replace members of our management team. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and other key personnel, both individually and as a group. Our future performance will be substantially dependent on our ability to retain or replace our executive officers and key personnel and our inability to retain or replace our executive officers and key personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy. The ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate expose us to possible liabilities. We currently own or lease 275 stores, which subjects us to the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, the value of a property could decrease or operating costs could increase. Our store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of sales at that location. These leases generally do not allow for termination prior to the end of the lease term without economic consequences. If a store is not profitable and we make the decision to close it, we may remain committed to perform certain obligations under the lease, including the payment of rent, for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. If an existing owned store is not profitable and we make the decision to close it, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the closing of that store. In addition, lease or other obligations may restrict our right to cease operations of an unprofitable owned or leased store, which may cause us to continue to operate the location at a loss. A decline in real estate values could also have an adverse effect on our borrowing availability under our senior secured credit facility. Current store locations may become less desirable, and desirable new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all. The success of any store depends substantially upon its location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be desirable as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where stores are located could decline in the future, resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. In addition, if we cannot obtain desirable new locations our sales will suffer, and if we cannot obtain desirable locations at reasonable prices our cost structure will increase. The declining financial condition of some shopping mall operators could adversely impact our stores. Many shopping mall operators were severely impacted by the recent global economic downturn. As the great majority of our stores are located in malls, we are dependent upon the continued popularity of malls as a shopping destination for our customers. The continuation of the economic slowdown in the United States could impact shopping mall operators’ financial ability to develop new shopping malls and properly maintain existing shopping malls, which could adversely 13 affect our sales. In addition, the consolidation of ownership of shopping malls through the merger or acquisition of large shopping mall operators may give landlords increased leverage in lease negotiations and adversely affect our ability to control our lease costs. Risks associated with our private brands could adversely affect our business. We offer our customers quality products at competitive prices marketed under our private brands. We expect to continue to grow our private label offerings and have invested in our development and procurement resources and marketing efforts related to these exclusive brand offerings. The expansion of our private brand offerings subjects us to certain additional risks. These include, among others, risks related to: our failure to comply with government and industry safety standards; mandatory or voluntary product recalls related to our private brand offerings; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights in our exclusive offerings; and risks associated with overseas sourcing and manufacturing. In addition, damage to the reputation of our private brand trade names may generate negative customer sentiment. Our failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be significantly disrupted and burdened with additional costs if our associates unionize. While we believe our relationship with our associates is good, we cannot be assured that we will not become the subject of a unionization campaign. If some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and collective bargaining agreement terms were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements or work practices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New legal requirements could make our business operations more costly. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by new legal requirements, including the newly enacted U.S. health care law, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and potential global and domestic greenhouse gas emission requirements and other environmental legislation and regulations. The financial impact of these new legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. New laws or regulations may result in increased direct costs to us for compliance or may cause our vendors to raise prices to us because of increased compliance costs or reduced availability of raw materials. Failure to successfully maintain and update information technology systems and enhance existing systems may adversely affect our business. To keep pace with changing technology, we must continuously provide for the design and implementation of new information technology systems and enhancements of our existing systems. Any failure to adequately maintain and update the information technology systems supporting our sales operations or inventory control could prevent us from processing and delivering merchandise, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A security breach that results in the unauthorized disclosure of Company, employee or customer information could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial condition. The protection of customer, employee, and Company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. In addition, customers have an expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. Although we have appropriate security measures in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, 14 programming and/or human errors or other similar events. A significant breach of customer, employee or Company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Tim Grumbacher has voting control over matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders, and he may take actions that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders and holders of our debt securities. Collectively, Tim Grumbacher, trusts for the benefit of Mr. Grumbacher’s grandchildren and The Grumbacher Family Foundation beneficially own shares of our outstanding common stock (which is entitled to one vote per share) and shares of our Class A common stock (which is entitled to ten votes per share) representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the votes eligible to be cast by shareholders in the election of directors and generally. Accordingly, Mr. Grumbacher has the power to control all matters requiring the approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The interests of Mr. Grumbacher and certain other stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders and holders of our debt securities. In addition to Mr. Grumbacher’s voting control, certain provisions of our charter documents and Pennsylvania law could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that our other shareholders consider favorable and could depress the market value of our common stock. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws, as well as provisions of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law, could have the effect of deterring takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the Company that our shareholders consider favorable and could depress the market value of our common stock. Subchapter F of Chapter 25 of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, which is applicable to us, may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interest. In general, Subchapter F could delay for five years and impose conditions upon “business combinations” between an “interested shareholder” and us, unless prior approval by our Board of Directors is given. The term “business combination” is defined broadly to include various merger, consolidation, division, exchange or sale transactions, including transactions using our assets for refinancing purposes. An “interested shareholder,” in general, would be a beneficial owner of shares entitling that person to cast at least 20% of the votes that all shareholders would be entitled to cast in an election of directors. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and may be significantly affected by: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • announcements of new services by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to conditions and trends in our industry; • governmental regulation; • general market conditions, particularly periods of decline; and • other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 