Item 1A. Risk Factors. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, important risk factors are identified below that could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause the Company's actual results for future periods to differ materially from any opinions or statements expressed with respect to such future periods in any current statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking announcements to reflect future events or circumstances. Dependence on a Major Customer The laboratory equipment industry is dominated in the U.S. by two major laboratory equipment distributors, one of which, is the Company's largest customer. Sales to this customer accounted for approximately 9.8% and 11.3% of total sales (15% and 20% of the sales of the Benchtop Laboratory Equipment Operations) for fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. During fiscal 2009 this distributor discontinued the inclusion of the Company's Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products in its new catalog which was released in January 2009 which was a major factor in the reduction in sales to this distributor for fiscal 2009. While the Company's products continue to be offered through the distributor's website, and upon requests made directly to the distributor from customers, the Company expects the continuation of reduced orders from this distributor. To mitigate the adverse effect of the catalog discontinuance, the Company has increased its advertisements placed in the distributor's interim publications, hired a new sales manager who is working with the distributor's sales representatives, and is expanding its selling efforts directed to other distributors. No representation can be made that the Company will be successful in such efforts or as to the extent of the adverse effect on the future operating results of the Company. One Benchtop Laboratory Equipment Product Accounts for a Substantial Portion of Revenues The Company has a limited number of Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products with one product, the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer, accounting for approximately 69% and 70% of Benchtop Laboratory Equipment sales, for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively, and 44% and 39% of total sales for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. The Company is A Small Participant in Each of the Two Industries in Which It Operates The Benchtop Laboratory Equipment industry is highly competitive. Although the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer has been widely accepted, the annual sales of the Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products ($3,848,400 for fiscal 2009 and $3,770,500 for fiscal 2008) are significantly lower than the annual sales of many of its competitors in the industry. The principal competitors are substantially larger with much greater financial, production and marketing resources than the Company. In the past few years, there have been several entrants into the vortex mixer market, including the manufacturer of the private label mixers of the two largest distributors. The production and sale of Catalyst Research Instruments products is highly competitive. Altamira's competitors include several companies with greater resources and many laboratories which produce their own instruments. The Company's Ability to Grow and Compete Effectively Is In Part Dependent on Its Ability to Develop and Effectively Market New Products Over the past ten years, the Company has continuously invested in the development and marketing of new Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products with a view to increasing revenues and reducing the Company's dependence on the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer. Gross revenues derived from new Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products (those other than the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer) amounted to $1,217,300 and $1,145,200, respectively, for fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008. The segment's ability to compete will depend upon the Company's success in developing and marketing new laboratory equipment as to which no assurance can be given. The Company relies primarily on distributors and their catalogs to market its Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products. Accordingly, sales of new products are heavily dependent on the distributors' decision to include and retain a new product in the distributors' catalogs and on their websites. It may be at least 24 to 36 months between the completion of development of a product and the distribution of the catalog in which it is first offered. In June, 2009 the Company hired a new sales manager with a view to increasing sales through distributors and directly to end users. No assurance can be given that the amounts allocated by the Company for its new product development and sales and marketing programs will be sufficient to develop additional commercially feasible products or that distributors will include or retain any particular product in their catalogs and websites. In June 2006, the Company received a nonexclusive sublicense from Fluorometrix Corporation to develop, produce and sell a line of bioreactor vessels with integral sensors for pH and oxygen in volumes of 250 milliliters up to 5 liters for laboratory systems. The Company's efforts to develop products which incorporate the disposable sensor technology commenced in fiscal 2009. No assurance can be given that any commercially feasible product will be developed or that material revenues, if any will result therefrom. The Company's Catalyst Research Instruments line of products consists of only a few products. The ability of the Company to compete in this segment and expand the line will depend on its ability to make engineering improvements to existing products and develop and add new products incorporating more current technology. During fiscal 2009, the Company towards this end, hired a new software engineer and engaged outside product design services to develop new catalyst research products, one of which was introduced in June 2009. No assurance can be given that the Company's new product development and related marketing efforts will enable the segment to be competitive or that the Company will be successful in developing or improving products which will be commercially feasible. The Company May Be Subject to General Economic, Political, and Social Factors Orders for the Company's products, particularly the Catalyst Research Instruments products, depend in part, on the customer's ability to secure funds to finance purchases. Availability of funds can be affected by budgetary constraints. Factors such as a general economic recession, as experienced during fiscal 2009, or another major terrorist attack could have a negative impact on the availability of funding including grants to potential customers. The Company's ability to secure new Catalyst Research Instruments orders can also be affected by changes in domestic and international policies pertaining to energy and the environment. The Company is Heavily Dependent on Outside Suppliers for the Components of Its Products During the last few years, the Company had relied on a single supplier for certain components of its Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products, including the Vortex-Genie 2. Purchases from this supplier for several reasons, including quality and pricing were reduced to approximately 11% for fiscal 2009 of the Company's material purchases from 24% for fiscal 2008, and to 16% of the segment's material purchases for fiscal 2009 from 40% for fiscal 2008). Many of the Company's suppliers, including United States vendors, produce the components directly or indirectly in overseas factories, and are subject to long lead times and potential other risks related to production in a foreign country. To minimize the risk of supply shortages, the Company keeps more than normal quantities on hand of the critical components that cannot easily and quickly be procured or, where feasible and cost effective, purchases from more than one supplier. The Company's Ability to Compete Depends in Part on Its Ability To Secure and Maintain Proprietary Rights to its Products The Company does not have any patent protection for its principal product the Vortex-Genie 2 Mixer and limited patent protection on a few other Benchtop Laboratory Equipment products. As a result, there are several competitive products available in the marketplace possessing similar technical specifications and design. The Company does not have any patent protection for any of its Catalyst Research Instruments products, except as a licensee to a line of Celero products, sales of which have not been significant. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining additional patents, that any patent issued or licensed to the Company provides or will provide the Company with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties or that the patents of others will not prevent the commercialization of products developed by the Company. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar products or design around the patents related to the Company's products. Any of the foregoing activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, the enforcement by the Company of its patent rights may require substantial litigation costs. The Company Has Limited Management Resources The loss of the services of any of Ms. Helena Santos, the Company's Chief Executive and Financial Officer and President, Mr. Robert Nichols, the Company's Executive Vice President and Mr. Brookman March, President of Altamira, or any material expansion of the Company's operations could place a significant additional strain on the Company's limited management resources and could be materially adverse to the Company's results and financial condition. The Common Stock of the Company is Thinly Traded and is Subject to Volatility As of August 28, 2009, there were only 1,196,577 shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding, of which 433,882 shares were held by the directors and officers of the Company. The Common Stock of the Company is traded on the Over-the- Counter Bulletin Board and, historically, has been thinly traded. There have been a number of trading days during fiscal 2009 on which no trades of the Company's Common Stock were reported. Accordingly, the market price for the Common Stock is subject to great volatility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 