Item 1A. Risk Factors Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business before purchasing our securities. In particular, prospective investors should note that this annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act and that actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by such statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information.” The factors listed below represent certain important factors which we believe could cause such results to differ. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. We have a history of net losses, we expect to continue to incur net losses, and our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on our ability to consummate the merger agreement with APN Holding Company, Inc. (“APN Holdco”). We have incurred significant operating losses over the past several years and have an accumulated deficit of $80.5 million as of June 30, 2007. Our senior secured credit facility requires the repayment of outstanding overadvances of approximately $62.0 million by November 10, 2007. In addition, we have approximately $161.5 million of debt maturing in fiscal 2008. On October 1, 2007, we signed an Agreement and Plan of Merger with APN Holdco. We believe that without the consummation of the merger, we will not have sufficient cash to fund our activities in the near future, and we will not be able to continue operating. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the merger. As such, our continuation as a going concern is uncertain. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Based upon the foregoing, our independent registered accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements related to the uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. Our substantial indebtedness continues to adversely affect our financial health and may prevent us from fulfilling our payment obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness relative to our equity size. As of September 7, 2007, we had total consolidated indebtedness of approximately $316.4 million, including approximately $118.7 million under our senior secured credit facility, $103.3 million of Second Lien Notes, approximately $58.1 million of 2008 Notes, excluding $0.6 million related to the fair value of a monetized fixed to floating interest rate swap on the 2008 Notes, and $25.2 million under our European facility agreement. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including through additional borrowings under the second lien credit agreement (which permits the issuance of up to an additional $6.7 million principal amount of Second Lien Notes), our senior secured credit agreement and our European facility agreement, subject to availability. Based on our fiscal year 2008 operating plan, we do not believe that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available under our senior secured credit facility or other sources of funds in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other 11 Table of Contents liquidity needs. We are actively pursuing various alternatives to improve our liquidity position, including reducing or delaying capital expenditures, borrowing additional funds, restructuring indebtedness, selling assets or operations and/or reducing expenditures for new product development, cutting other costs, and some of such actions would require the consent of our senior lenders, the holders of the Second Lien Notes, the holders of the 2008 Notes and/or the lenders under our European facility agreement. We can not assure you that any of such actions could be effected, or if so, on terms favorable to us, that such actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our liquidity needs, that such actions would not dilute the ownership interest of stockholders and/or that such actions would be permitted under the terms of our senior secured credit facility, the second lien credit agreement, the indenture governing the 2008 Notes or the European facility agreement. Our high level of debt could have important consequences for you, such as: • our debt level makes us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements may be limited; • we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of the principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness (thereby reducing the amount of money available to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes); • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete may be limited; our debt level could impact our ability to maintain favorable credit terms with our suppliers; • our debt level could limit our ability or increase the costs to refinance indebtedness; and • our debt level may place us at a competitive disadvantage to our less leveraged competitors. Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants that could adversely affect our business by limiting our flexibility. Our senior secured credit agreement, the second lien credit agreement, the indenture governing the 2008 Notes and the European facility agreement impose restrictions that affect, among other things, our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, sell assets, create liens, make capital expenditures and investments, merge or consolidate, enter into transactions with affiliates, and otherwise enter into certain transactions outside the ordinary course of business. Our senior secured credit agreement, the second lien credit agreement and the European facility agreement also require us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. If we are unable to comply with the terms of our senior secured credit agreement, the second lien credit agreement, indenture governing the 2008 Notes or the European facility agreement, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or to refinance our debt as described below, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. If cash flow is insufficient and refinancing or additional financing is unavailable because of our high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions under our debt instruments, we may default on our debt instruments. In the event of a default under the terms of any of our indebtedness, the debt holders may accelerate the maturity of our obligations, which could cause defaults under our other obligations. We must either repay or refinance significant debt obligations due in November 2007 and during the next twelve months. We must repay up to approximately $62 million of overadvances under our senior secured credit agreement on or before November 10, 2007. In addition, we have significant maturities of debt during the next twelve months. These maturities are March 31, 2008 under the second lien credit agreement, April 15, 2008 under the indenture governing the 2008 Notes and December 22, 2008 under the European facility agreement. We are also required to exchange all of the outstanding shares of Series A convertible preferred stock for an aggregate of $40.0 million in cash or shares of our common stock on September 15, 2008. We will not have 12 Table of Contents sufficient cash flow from operations to repay all of our indebtedness when due, satisfy our redemption obligations under our preferred stock agreement and fund our other liquidity needs. We have experienced a decline in domestic market sales and continue to implement a domestic restructuring plan. Our domestic sales have decreased in fiscal 2007 as compared to fiscal 2006. A portion of that decline is attributable to our sale of the tabletop business in September 2005, discontinued product lines and delays in production from suppliers. We continue to implement our domestic cost reduction plan, and we expect additional cost reductions in fiscal 2008. The cost savings will principally come from a rationalization of operations, brands and SKUs and the costs related to them. Although the restructuring of our domestic operations through workforce layoffs, consolidation of facilities and reduction of certain marketing and advertising programs has reduced our operating expenses, such actions may have an adverse effect on our domestic sales. In addition, our current and prospective customers and suppliers may decide to delay or not purchase or supply our products due to the perceived uncertainty caused by our indebtedness and the domestic restructuring plan. We may be required to take charges in the future relating to our restructuring plan, which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. We cannot assure you that the domestic restructuring plan will allow us to better align our domestic cost structure with our current sales levels. As a result of our declining sales, we have taken, and may have to take in the future, impairment charges to certain of our trade names. Our international operations, and expansion of these operations, subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. During fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, sales recorded outside of North America accounted for 49.1%, 42.1%, and 43.2% of total net sales, respectively. Our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before returns on these investments, if any, are realized. International operations are subject to a number of other risks and potential costs, including: • the risk that because our brand names may not be locally recognized, we must spend significant amounts of time and money to build a brand identity without certainty that we will be successful; • local and economic conditions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • inadequate protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; • foreign currency fluctuations; • transportation costs; • adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability, as a result of terrorist attacks, natural disasters or otherwise. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant costs in addressing these potential risks. Our margins have been adversely impacted by increases in raw material prices. The cost of our products has been impacted by global increases in the price of petroleum based plastic materials, steel, copper and corrugated materials. Although we have increased the prices of certain of our goods to our customers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to pass all of these cost increases on to our customers. As a result, our margins may continue to be adversely impacted by such cost increases. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to obtain products may be adversely impacted by worldwide demand on raw material. Our products are predominately made from petroleum based plastic materials, steel, copper and corrugated materials. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of them. We can provide no assurance that our sources of supply will not be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to worldwide demand or other events that interrupt material flow. If we were to lose one or more of our major customers, or suffer a major reduction of orders from them, our financial results would suffer. Our success depends on our sales to our significant customers. Our total net sales to our five largest customers during fiscal 2007 were 30.5% of net sales with Wal-Mart Stores Inc. representing 10.1% of our net sales and Target Inc. representing 7.1% of our net sales. Our total net sales to our five largest customers during fiscal 2006 were 33.6% of net sales, with Target representing 9.8% of our net sales and Wal-Mart representing 9.3% of our net sales. Our total net sales to our five largest customers during fiscal 2005 were 37.3% of net sales, with Target representing 12.6% of our net sales and Wal-Mart representing 8.5% of our net sales. We do not have long-term agreements with our major customers, and purchases are generally made through the use of individual purchase orders. A significant reduction in purchases by any of these major customers or a general economic downturn in retail sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on foreign suppliers subjects us to the risks of doing business abroad. We depend upon unaffiliated foreign companies for the manufacture of most of our products. Our arrangements with our suppliers are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including: • import duties; • trade restrictions; • production delays due to unavailability of parts or components; • increase in transportation costs and transportation delays, including those resulting from terrorist activity; • work stoppages; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • political and economic instability and civil unrest, which could lead to the business failure of major suppliers. Any reduction in trade credit from our suppliers could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We depend on the continuing willingness of our suppliers to extend credit to us to finance our inventory purchases. If suppliers become concerned about our ability to generate liquidity and service our debt, they may delay shipments to us or require payment in advance. Because of our limited access to sources of liquidity, any such actions by our suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our business. The small household appliance industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively. We believe that competition is based upon several factors, including: • price; • access to retail shelf space; • product features and enhancements; 14 Table of Contents • brand names; • new product introductions; and • marketing support and distribution approaches. We compete with established companies, some of which have substantially greater facilities, personnel, financial and other resources than we have. Significant new competitors or increased competition from existing competitors may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the housewares sector of the retail industry continues to experience an economic slowdown, our financial results will be adversely affected. We sell our products to consumers through major retail channels, primarily mass merchandisers, department stores, specialty stores and mail order catalogs. As a result, our business and financial results can fluctuate with the financial condition of our retail customers and the retail industry. The current general slowdown in the retail sector has adversely impacted our net sales of products, our operating margins and our net income. If such conditions continue or worsen, including any further weakness in consumer confidence as a result of terrorist activity, or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current general slowdown in the retail sector has resulted in, and we expect it to continue to result in, additional pricing and marketing support pressures on us. Certain of our retail customers have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent years. We continually monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate. Despite these efforts, a bankruptcy filing by, or other adverse change in the financial condition of, a significant customer could adversely affect our financial results. Long lead times, potential material price increases and customer demands may cause us to purchase more inventory than necessary. Due to manufacturing lead times and a strong concentration of our sales occurring during the second fiscal quarter, as well as potential material price increases, we may purchase products and thereby increase inventories based on anticipated sales and forecasts provided by our customers and our sales personnel. In an extended general economic slowdown, we cannot assure you that our customers will order these inventories as anticipated. Our ability to successfully pursue strategic and operational initiatives will depend on the continued efforts of our Chief Executive Officer. Our ability to successfully pursue strategic and operational initiatives will depend significantly on the efforts and abilities of William M. Lutz, our interim Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Lutz could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not have, and do not intend to obtain, key-man life insurance on Mr. Lutz. Our outstanding convertible preferred stock contains redemption and other provisions which could have a material adverse effect on, and significantly dilute, the interests of holders of our common stock. On July 28, 1998, we issued 40,000 shares of convertible preferred stock in connection with a Stock Purchase Agreement dated July 15, 1998. The convertible preferred stock is non-dividend bearing except if we breach, in any material respect, any of the material obligations in the preferred stock agreement or our restated certificate of incorporation relating to the convertible preferred stock, the holders of the convertible preferred stock are entitled to receive quarterly cash dividends on each share from the date of the breach until it is cured at a rate per annum equal to 121/2% of the Liquidation Preference (defined below). The preferred shares are convertible into 3,529,411 shares of our common stock (reflecting an $11.33 per share conversion price). The holders of the convertible preferred stock are entitled to one vote for each share of our common stock that the holder would receive upon conversion of the convertible preferred stock. 15 Table of Contents In the event of a change in control, each preferred shareholder has the right to require us to redeem the shares at a redemption price equal to the Liquidation Preference (defined below) plus interest accrued thereon at a rate of 7% per annum compounded annually each anniversary date from July 28, 1998 through the earlier of the date of such redemption or July 28, 2003. The satisfaction of this redemption obligation would have to be satisfied before any proceeds from a change in control are available to holders of common stock. In the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of the convertible preferred stock are entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders an amount in cash equal to $1,000 per share, plus the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (the “Liquidation Preference”), before any distribution is made to the holders of any our common stock or any other of its capital stock ranking junior as to liquidation rights to the convertible preferred stock. We may optionally convert in whole or in part, the convertible preferred stock at any time on and after July 15, 2003 at a cash price per share of 100% of the then effective Liquidation Preference per share, if the daily closing price per share of our common stock for a specified 20 consecutive trading day period is greater than or equal to 200% of the then current conversion price. On September 15, 2008, we will be required to exchange all outstanding shares of convertible preferred stock at a price equal to the Liquidation Preference per share (or an aggregate of $40.0 million), payable at our option in cash or shares of our common stock. Our inability to satisfy this redemption obligation in cash could result in significant dilution of the ownership interest of holders of common stock. Our credit ratings have been downgraded and could be downgraded further. Our credit ratings on our senior subordinated debt have been downgraded several times during the last two years. On July 14, 2005, Standard & Poor’s withdrew its “D” corporate credit and “D” subordinated debt ratings. Such downgrades can have a negative impact on our liquidity by reducing attractive financing opportunities and could make our efforts to raise capital more difficult and have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we have to expend significant amounts to remediate environmental liabilities, our financial results will suffer. Prior to 2003, we manufactured certain of our products at our owned plants in the United States and Europe. Our previous manufacturing of products at these sites exposes us to potential liabilities for environmental damage that these facilities may have caused or may cause nearby landowners. During the ordinary course of our operations, we have received, and we expect that we may in the future receive, citations or notices from governmental authorities asserting that our facilities are not in compliance with, or require investigation or remediation under, applicable environmental statutes and regulations. Any citations or notices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The seasonal nature of our business could adversely impact our operations. Our business is highly seasonal, with operating results varying from quarter to quarter. We have historically experienced higher sales during the second fiscal quarter primarily due to increased demand by customers for our products attributable to holiday sales. This seasonality has also resulted in additional interest expense for us during this period due to an increased need to borrow funds to maintain sufficient working capital to finance product purchases and customer receivables for the seasonal period. Lower sales than expected by us during this period, a lack of availability of product, a general economic downturn in retail sales or the inability to service additional interest expense due to increased borrowings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Product recalls or lawsuits relating to defective products could adversely impact our financial results. We face exposure to product recalls and product liability claims in the event that our products are alleged to have manufacturing or safety defects or to have resulted in injury or other adverse effects. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, or that product liability claims will not exceed the amount of our insurance coverage. As a result, we cannot assure you that product recalls and product liability claims will not adversely affect our business. The infringement or loss of our proprietary rights could have an adverse effect on our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, service marks and similar intellectual property as important to our success. We rely on copyright and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to register our trademarks in the United States and elsewhere. These registrations could be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. If any of these rights were infringed or invalidated, our business could be materially adversely affected. We license various trademarks and trade names from third parties for use on our products. These licenses generally place marketing obligations on us and require us to pay fees and royalties based on net sales or profits. Typically, each license may be terminated if we fail to satisfy minimum sales obligations or if we breach the license. The termination of these licensing arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot assure you that others will not claim that our proprietary or licensed products are infringing their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe those intellectual property rights. If someone claimed that our proprietary or licensed products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction against use of our proprietary or licensed products. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could harm our financial condition. Compliance with governmental regulations could significantly increase our operating costs or prevent us from selling our products. Most federal, state and local authorities require certification by Underwriters Laboratory, Inc., an independent, not-for-profit corporation engaged in the testing of products for compliance with certain public safety standards, or other safety regulation certification prior to marketing electrical appliances. Foreign jurisdictions also have regulatory authorities overseeing the safety of consumer products. Our products, or additional electrical appliances which may be developed by us, may not meet the specifications required by these authorities. A determination that we are not in compliance with these rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. The requirements of complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may strain our resources, and our internal control over financial reporting may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable external financial reports. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs related to our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, corporate governance standards and internal control over financial reporting and that our auditors provide an attestation relative to management’s assessment process and conclusions. Due to market capitalization levels, we are not currently required to comply with Section 404. However, we must continue to maintain and assess our system of internal controls over financial reporting, and under current regulations, compliance with Section 404 will be required in fiscal 2008. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our 17 Table of Contents disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight have been, and will continue to be, required. We have devoted additional financial resources, time and personnel to legal, financial and accounting activities to ensure our ongoing compliance with public company reporting requirements. In the future, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of the preceding year or our auditors may be unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, even if our auditors issue an unqualified opinion on our financial statements for the preceding fiscal year. If the auditors are unable to provide an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, it could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, adversely affect our stock price and our ability to access the capital markets or borrow money, and may subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results; announcements of new products by us or our competitors; changes in the domestic and international economic, political and business conditions; general conditions in the housewares industry; the recent lack of confidence in corporate governance and accounting practices; and other events or factors. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock was recently delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and currently trades on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service. Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on August 6, 2007 and has traded on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service since that time. The market for our common stock has changed since it was delisted from the NYSE. In addition, the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. Takeover defense provisions which we have implemented may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stockholder rights plan and various provisions of Delaware corporation law and of our corporate governance documents may inhibit changes in control not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of depriving stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock in the event of an attempted hostile takeover or may deter takeover attempts by third parties. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors; • availability of “blank check” preferred stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends. We have not paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our operations and for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. In addition, our senior secured credit facility, the second lien credit agreement and the Europe credit facility contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. 18 Table of Contents Merger Related Risk Factors As discussed in Recent Developments in Item 1. “Business,” the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with APN Holding Company, Inc. (”APN Holdco”) on October 1, 2007. Uncertainties regarding the merger include, but are not limited to the following: The failure to integrate the businesses and operations of Salton and Applica in a timely and efficient manner could adversely affect the business of the combined company and the ability of the combined company to realize expected synergies. The merger involves risks related to the integration and management of technology, operations and personnel of two companies. The integration of the businesses of Salton and Applica will be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt their respective businesses if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. Following the merger, Salton and Applica must operate as a combined organization utilizing common information and communications systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices. We may encounter substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in integrating operations, including: • potential conflicts between business cultures; • adverse changes in business focus perceived by third-party constituencies; • potential conflicts in distribution, marketing or other important relationships; • potential resource constraints for accounting personnel; • inability to implement uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • integration of the research and development and product development efforts; and • loss of key employees and/or the diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of the companies. The merger consideration is based in part on the expectation that Applica will significantly contribute to the combined company’s financial performance and if we do not realize the expected synergies or perform as well as we expect financially following the merger, we will effectively have paid too much in merger consideration. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the businesses of Applica with those of Salton. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers, and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. In addition, successful integration of the companies will require the dedication of significant management resources, which will temporarily detract attention from the day-to-day businesses of the combined company. Even if we are able to integrate our business operations with Applica successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the level of synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities that we currently expect or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. For example, the elimination of duplicative costs may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated and the benefits from the merger may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies. 19 Table of Contents The costs associated with the merger are difficult to estimate, may be higher than estimated and may harm the financial results of the combined company to an unexpected degree. We believe we will incur direct transaction costs associated with the merger. In addition, the combined company will incur financing fees and debt redemption costs (assuming all redemption rights are exercised in full) in connection with the merger. The combined company will also incur costs associated with consolidation and integration of operations, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time. Additional costs may include: • costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses; • accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments; • costs of reorganization or closure of facilities; • costs of relocation and disposition of excess equipment; and • costs of termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services. Some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses by us that would decrease the combined company’s net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. If the total costs of the merger exceed estimates or the benefits of the merger do not exceed the total costs of the merger, the financial results of the combined company could be adversely affected. In addition, the closing of the merger could be delayed beyond our expected timeline, adding costs and diverting management resources, which could adversely affect the combined company’s business, operations and financial results. Completion of the merger and related transactions will result in dilution of future earnings per share to our stockholders. The completion of the merger may not result in improved earnings per share of Salton or a financial condition superior to that which would have been achieved by Salton on a stand-alone basis. The merger could fail to produce the benefits that the companies anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that the companies currently do not foresee. In addition, some of the assumptions that either company has made, such as the achievement of operating synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities may not be realized. If anticipated synergies, savings, growth opportunities and other anticipated benefits are not realized, the merger could result in a reduction of earnings per share of Salton as compared to the earnings per share that would have been achieved by Salton if the merger had not occurred. Neither entity has completed its analysis of how much of its net operating loss carryforwards will be available to the combined company, and the combined company’s net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as a result of the merger. As of June 30, 2007, we had net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes of $95.5 million. As of March 31, 2007, Applica had net operating loss carryforwards for federal income tax purposes of approximately $119.0 million. Both entities have provided full valuation allowances for the tax benefit of such losses as well as certain tax credit carryforwards. Utilization of these net operating loss and credit carryforwards are dependent upon the combined company achieving profitable results following the merger. As a consequence of the merger, as well as earlier business combinations and issuances of common stock consummated by both companies, utilization of the tax benefits of these carryforwards are subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The determination of the limitations is complex and requires significant judgment and analysis of past transactions. Neither entity has completed the analyses required to determine what portion, if any, of these carryforwards will have their availability restricted or eliminated by that provision. Accordingly, some portion of these carryforwards may not be available to offset future taxable income, if any. 20 Table of Contents Uncertainty with respect to the completion of the merger could cause customers or suppliers to delay or defer purchases or other decisions and could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain key personnel. In response to the announcement of the merger, our customers or suppliers may delay or defer purchases or other decisions. Any delay or deferral in purchases or other decisions by customers or suppliers could harm our business, regardless of whether the merger is completed. Similarly, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the Company until the merger is completed. As a result, our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, and technical personnel could suffer. 