Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us and our business before making an investment decision regarding our securities. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The risks listed below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our margins may be adversely impacted by increases in raw material prices. 9 Table of Contents The cost of our products may be impacted by global increases in the price of petroleum-based plastic materials, steel, aluminum, copper and corrugated materials (for packaging). Although we may increase the prices of certain of our goods to our customers, we cannot assure you that we will be able to pass all of these cost increases on to our customers. As a result, our margins may be adversely impacted by such cost increases. The costs of the products purchased by us could increase as a result of fluctuations in the Chinese currency. In 1994, China pegged the renminbi (also called the yuan) at an exchange rate of 8.28 to the U.S. dollar. However, U.S. groups argued that the peg made China’s exports to the U.S. cheaper, and U.S. exports to China more expensive, thus greatly contributing to China’s trade surplus with the U.S. In July 2005, China ended its peg to the dollar and let the renminbi fluctuate versus a basket of currencies. Immediately, the new renminbi rate revalued the currency by 2.1% to 8.11 to the dollar. At September 15, 2008, the renminbi exchange rate was 6.85 to the dollar. Because a substantial number of our products are imported from China, the floating currency could result in significant fluctuations in our product costs. If we are unable to pass on the cost increases to customers, our gross profit would decline. An increase in product prices might lead to a decrease in demand for our products. The bankruptcy or financial difficulty of any major customer or fluctuations in the financial condition of the retail industry in general could adversely affect our results of operations. We sell our products to distributors and retailers, including mass merchandisers, department stores and wholesale clubs. The financial difficulties of our customers or the loss of, or a substantial decrease in, the volume of purchases by a major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. Additionally, a significant deterioration in the financial condition of the retail industry in general could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. We purchase a large number of products from two suppliers. Production-related risks with these suppliers could jeopardize our ability to realize anticipated sales and profits until alternative supply arrangements are secured. Our top two suppliers are Elec-Tech International (H.K.) Company, Ltd. and Tsann Kuen Enterprises. In order for us to realize sales and operating profits at anticipated levels, these suppliers must deliver high quality products in a timely manner. Both suppliers are expected to remain significant suppliers for us. The failure of our business strategy could seriously hurt our financial condition and results of operations. As part of the post-merger business strategy, we plan to: • Maximize utility of our brand assets; • Leverage innovation and strategic marketing to drive profitability; • Create long-term cost and quality advantages for our customers; and • Pursue acquisitions. Our strategic objectives may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in increased revenue, profitability or market presence. Executing our strategy may also place a strain on our suppliers, information technology systems and other resources. To manage growth effectively, we must maintain a high level of quality, properly manage our third-party suppliers, continue to enhance our operational, financial and management systems and expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not be able to effectively manage our growth in any one or more of these areas, which could cause our financial condition and results or operations to suffer. Our international operations subject us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. A significant amount of our sales are recorded outside of North America. Our pursuit of international growth opportunities may require significant investments for an extended period before returns on these 10 Table of Contents investments, if any, are realized. International operations are subject to a number of other risks and potential costs, including: • the risk that because our brand names may not be locally recognized, we must spend significant amounts of time and money to build a brand identity without certainty that we will be successful; • local and economic conditions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • inadequate protection of intellectual property in foreign countries; • foreign currency fluctuations; • transportation costs; • adverse tax consequences; and • political and economic instability, as a result of terrorist attacks, natural disasters or otherwise. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our supply of products, our financial condition or the results of our operations. Harbinger Capital Partners has effective control over the outcome of actions requiring the approval of our stockholders. Harbinger Capital Partners beneficially owns approximately 94% of our outstanding shares of voting capital stock. Therefore, it (a) has the ability to exert substantial influence and actual control over our management policies and affairs, (b) controls the outcome of any matter submitted to our stockholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, any proposed merger or other business combinations, our financing, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions and (c) has the ability to elect or remove all of our directors. There is a risk that the interests of Harbinger Capital Partners will not be consistent with the interest of other holders of our common stock. Harbinger Capital Partners has significant control over our business and significant transactions and our other stockholders do not have the same corporate governance protection that they would otherwise have if we were not a controlled company. In addition, Harbinger Capital Partners’ control could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling stock or for us to use our stock as currency in acquisitions. This concentrated ownership also might delay or prevent a change in control and may impede or prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. We currently have four members of our Board of Directors, three of which are affiliates of Harbinger Capital Partners. We depend on consumer spending, which fluctuates for a variety of reasons, including seasonality, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Sales of our products are related to consumer spending. Any downturn in the general economy or a shift in consumer spending away from small household appliances would adversely affect our business. In addition, the market for small household appliances is highly seasonal in nature. We often recognize a substantial portion of our sales in the last half of the calendar year. Any economic downturn, decrease in consumer spending or a shift in consumer spending away from small household appliances could materially adversely impact our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our net operating loss carryforwards are limited as a result of the merger and are dependant upon us achieving profitable results. As a consequence of the merger between us and APN Holdco, as well as earlier business combinations and issuances of common stock consummated by both companies, use of the tax benefits of each company’s loss carryforwards is subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The determination of the limitations is complex and requires significant judgment and analysis of past transactions. We have completed an analysis to determine what portion of these carryforwards are restricted or eliminated by that provision and, pursuant to such analysis a significant portion of these carryforwards will not be available to offset future taxable income, if any. In addition, use of our net operating loss and credit carryforwards is dependent upon us achieving profitable results following the merger. If the household appliance sector of the retail industry experiences an economic slowdown, our results of operations will suffer. The strength of the retail economy in the United States has a significant impact on our performance. Weakness in consumer confidence and poor financial performance by mass merchandisers, warehouse clubs, department stores or any of our other customers would result in lost sales. A general slowdown in the retail sector, as happened in 2002 and 2003, would result in additional pricing and marketing support pressures on us. Our ability to obtain products may be adversely impacted by changes in worldwide supply of or demand for raw materials. Our products are predominantly made from petroleum-based plastic materials, steel, aluminum, copper and corrugated materials (for packaging). Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such raw materials. We can provide no assurance that our sources of supply will not be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to changes in worldwide supply of or demand for raw materials or other events that interrupt material flow. We depend on third party suppliers for the manufacturing of substantially all of our products and if we fail to develop and maintain relationships with a sufficient number of qualified suppliers, our ability to timely and efficiently source products that meet our standards for quality could be adversely affected. We currently buy products and supplies from suppliers located primarily in Asia. Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our standards for quality and our need to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our ability to access products also can be adversely affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and cost and other factors beyond our control. Any inability of our suppliers to timely deliver products or any unanticipated changes in our suppliers could be disruptive and costly to us. Our ability to select reliable suppliers who provide timely deliveries of quality products will impact our success in meeting customer demand. Any significant failure to obtain products on a timely basis at an affordable cost or any significant delays or interruptions of supply could disrupt customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to significant international business risks that could hurt our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. A significant amount of our revenues are from customers outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of the products we sell are manufactured by unaffiliated third party foreign suppliers. International operations are subject to risks including, among others: • currency fluctuations; • labor unrest; • political instability; 12 Table of Contents • lack of developed infrastructure; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts; • restrictions on transfers of funds; • import and export duties and quotas; • changes in domestic and international customs and tariffs; • unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • difficulty in complying with a variety of foreign laws; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. The foregoing factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our supply of products, our financial condition or the results of our operations. A deterioration in trade relations with China could lead to a substantial increase in tariffs imposed on goods of Chinese origin, which potentially could reduce demand for and sales of our products. Most all of our products are imported from The Peoples’ Republic of China. China gained Permanent Normal Trade Relations with the United States when it acceded to the World Trade Organization, effective January 2002. The United States imposes the lowest applicable tariffs on exports from PNTR countries to the United States. In order to maintain its WTO membership, China has agreed to several requirements, including the elimination of caps on foreign ownership of Chinese companies, lowering tariffs and publicizing its laws. China may not meet these requirements, it may not remain a member of the WTO, and its PNTR trading status may not be maintained. If China’s WTO membership is withdrawn or if PNTR status for goods produced in China were removed, there could be a substantial increase in tariffs imposed on goods of Chinese origin entering the United States which could hurt our sales and gross margin. Significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which our costs are denominated may reduce our sales or profits. While we will report financial results in U.S. dollars, a portion of our costs, such as payroll, rent and indirect operational costs, are denominated in other currencies, such as Australian dollars, British pounds, Canadian dollars and Mexican pesos. In addition, while a portion of our revenues are collected in foreign currencies, a significant portion of the related cost of goods sold is denominated in U.S. dollars. Changes in the relation of these and other currencies to the U.S. dollar will affect our cost of goods sold and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations cannot be accurately predicted. We may not be able to realize expected benefits and synergies from future acquisitions of businesses or product lines. We may acquire partial or full ownership in businesses or may acquire rights to market and distribute particular products or lines of products. The acquisition of a business or of the rights to market specific products or use specific product names may involve a financial commitment by us, either in the form of cash or stock consideration. In the case of a new license, such commitments are usually in the form of prepaid royalties and future minimum royalty payments. There is no guarantee that we will acquire businesses and develop products that 13 Table of Contents will contribute positively to our earnings. Anticipated synergies may not materialize, cost savings may be less than expected, sales of products may not meet expectations, and acquired businesses may carry unexpected liabilities. If we were to lose one or more of our major customers, or suffer a major reduction of orders from them, our financial results would suffer. Our success depends on our sales to our significant customers. Although we have long-established relationships with many of our customers, we do not have long-term agreements with them and purchases are generally made through the use of individual purchase orders. A significant reduction in purchases by any of these major customers or a general economic downturn in retail sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, failure to obtain anticipated orders or delays or cancellations of orders or significant pressure to reduce prices from key customers could have a material adverse effect on us. Any reduction in trade credit from our suppliers could seriously harm our operations and financial condition. We depend on the continuing willingness of our suppliers to extend credit to us to finance our inventory purchases. If suppliers experience financial constraints or if they become concerned about our ability to generate liquidity and service our debt, they may delay shipments to us or require payment in advance. Any such actions by our suppliers could materially harm our ability to continue our business. The small household appliance industry is consolidating, which could reduce our ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit our ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry. Over the past several years, the small household appliance industry has undergone substantial consolidation, and further consolidation is likely. As a result of this consolidation, the small household appliance industry could primarily consist of a limited number of large distributors. To the extent that we do not continue to be a major participant in the small household appliance industry, our ability to compete effectively with these larger distributors could be negatively impacted. As a result, this condition could reduce our ability to successfully secure product placements at key customers and limit our ability to sustain a cost competitive position in the industry. The small household appliance industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively, causing us to lose market share and sales. The small household appliance is highly competitive and does not have onerous entry barriers. We believe that competition is based upon several factors, including: • product price; • product quality; • access to retail shelf space; • product features and enhancements; • brand names; • new product introductions; and • marketing support and distribution approaches. We compete with established companies, a number of which have substantially greater facilities, personnel, financial and other resources than we have. In addition, we compete with our retail customers, who use their own private label brands, and distributors and foreign manufacturers of unbranded products. Some competitors may be willing to reduce prices and accept lower profit margins to compete with us. As a result of this competition, we 14 Table of Contents could lose market share and sales, or be forced to reduce our prices to meet competition. Significant new competitors or increased competition from existing competitors may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success requires us to develop new and innovative products on a consistent basis in order to increase revenues and we may not be able to do so. We believe that our future success is heavily dependent upon our ability to continue to make innovations in our existing products and to develop and market new products, which generally carry higher margins. We may not be successful in the introduction, marketing and manufacture of any new products or product innovations and we may not be able to develop and introduce in a timely manner innovations to our existing products that satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. Long lead times, potential material price increases and customer demands may cause us to purchase more inventory than necessary, which may lead to increased obsolescence and adversely affect our results of operations. Due to (a) manufacturing lead times, (b) a strong concentration of our sales occurring during the first half of our fiscal year and (c) the potential for material price increases, we may purchase products and thereby increase inventories based on anticipated sales and forecasts provided by our customers and our sales personnel. We cannot assure you that our customers will order these inventories as anticipated. Changes in customer inventory management strategies could also make inventory management more difficult for us. If retailers significantly change their inventory management strategies, we may encounter difficulties in filling customer orders or in liquidating excess inventories, or may find that customers are cancelling orders or returning products. Distribution difficulties may have an adverse effect on our business by increasing the amount of inventory and the cost of warehousing inventory. Our financing arrangements could subject us to various restrictions that could limit our operating flexibility. Our credit facilities and other financing arrangements contain covenants and other restrictions that, among other things, require us to satisfy certain financial tests and maintain certain financial ratios and restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness. The restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and other financing arrangements limit our ability to respond to market conditions, provide for capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities by limiting the amount of additional borrowings we may incur. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Financial Condition” for more information on our financial arrangements. Our leverage is substantial, which may have an adverse effect on our available cash flow, our ability to obtain additional financing if necessary in the future, our flexibility in reacting to competitive and technological changes and our operations. As of June 30, 2008, we had total indebtedness of approximately $399.5 million, which includes redeemable preferred stock of $119.5 million. This high degree of leverage could have important consequences for us, including the following: • a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations has to be dedicated to the payment of interest on existing indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired and will limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; • our flexibility in reacting to competitive technological and other changes may be limited; 15 Table of Contents • the indebtedness outstanding under the senior credit facilities and other financings are secured by substantially all our assets; • the substantial degree of leverage could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or adverse developments in our business; and • we will be exposed to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations. Sales of our common stock by Harbinger Capital Partners could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Harbinger Capital Partners owns approximately 94% of our outstanding common stock. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Harbinger Capital Partners requiring us, under certain circumstances, to register all of the shares of our common stock and Series D and E Preferred Stock beneficially owned by it. The exercise of these registration rights, or sales by Harbinger Capital Partners in the public market pursuant to any such registration, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock could decline if we fail to achieve the expected benefits of the merger with APN Holdco. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the merger for a number of reasons, including the following: • our failure to achieve the perceived benefits of the merger as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by financial or industry analysts, or such analysts failing to perceive the same benefits to the merger as we do; or • the effect of the merger on our financial results failing to meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts. If we are unable to renew the Black & Decker® trademark license agreement, our business could suffer. We license the Black & Decker® brand for use in marketing certain small household appliances in North America, Latin America (excluding Brazil) and the Caribbean. Sales of Black & Decker® branded products represent a significant portion or our total revenue. The sale of such products represented approximately 67% of our total consolidated revenue in the 2008 fiscal year. In December 2007, The Black & Decker Corporation extended the license agreement through December 2012, with an automatic extension through December 2014 if certain milestones are met regarding sales volume and product return. Our failure to renew the license agreement with The Black & Decker Corporation or to enter into a new agreement on acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Our actual liabilities relating to environmental matters may exceed our expectations. Prior to 2003, we manufactured certain of our products at facilities that we owned in the United States and Europe. Our manufacturing operations were subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances. If we failed to comply with these laws or the terms of our environmental permits, then we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions. In addition, future changes to environmental laws could require us to incur significant additional expense. We are investigating or remediating historical contamination at certain of our former sites related to our manufacturing operations. The discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant cleanup costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. Product recalls or lawsuits relating to defective products could adversely impact our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents As distributors of consumer products in the United States, we are subject to the Consumer Products Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or we may voluntarily do so. For example, in March 2008, we, in cooperation with the Consumer Products Safety Commission, voluntarily recalled approximately 12,000 units of two-slice electric toasters sold under various brands. Any additional repurchases or recalls of combined company products could be costly to us and could damage our reputation of the value of our brands. If we were required to remove, or we voluntarily remove, our products from the market, our reputation or brands could be tarnished and we might have large quantities of finished products that could not be sold. Furthermore, failure to timely notify the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission of a potential safety hazard can result in fines being assessed against us. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. We also face exposure to product liability claims if one of our products is alleged to have caused property damage, bodily injury or other adverse effects. We are self-insured to specified levels of those claims and maintain product liability insurance for claims above the self-insured levels. We may not be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, in the future. In addition, product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Additionally, we do not maintain product recall insurance. Our results of operations are also susceptible to adverse publicity regarding the quality and safety of our products. In particular, product recalls or product liability claims challenging the safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a particular product. This could be true even if the claims themselves are ultimately settled for immaterial amounts. This type of adverse publicity could occur and product liability claims could be made in the future. The infringement or loss of our proprietary rights could harm our business. We regard our trademarks, patents and similar intellectual property as important to our success. We rely on copyright and trademark laws in the United States and other jurisdictions to protect our proprietary rights. We seek to register our trademarks and patents in the United States and elsewhere. These registrations could be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. The costs associated with protecting intellectual property rights, including litigation costs, may be material. If any of these rights were infringed or invalidated, our business could be materially adversely affected. We license various trademarks, trade names and patents from third parties for use on our products. These licenses generally place marketing obligations on us and require us to pay fees and royalties based on net sales or profits. Typically, each license may be terminated if we fail to satisfy minimum sales obligations or if we breach the license. The termination of these licensing arrangements could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products. We cannot assure you that others will not claim our products are infringing their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe those intellectual property rights. If someone claimed that our products infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction against use of our products. A claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with governmental regulations could significantly increase our operating costs or prevent us from selling our products. 17 Table of Contents Most federal, state and local authorities require certification by Underwriters Laboratory, Inc., an independent, not-for-profit corporation engaged in the testing of products for compliance with certain public safety standards, or other safety regulation certification prior to marketing electrical appliances. Foreign jurisdictions also have regulatory authorities overseeing the safety of consumer products. Our products may not meet the specifications required by these authorities. A determination that we are not in compliance with these rules and regulations could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. Additionally, many of our pest control products are subject to laws and regulations by state and federal environmental agencies. A determination that we are not in compliance with such rules and regulations could result in the prohibition of sales or our products and the imposition of fines. The requirements of complying with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may strain our resources, and our internal control over financial reporting may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable external financial reports. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We expect to incur substantial costs related to our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, corporate governance standards and internal control over financial reporting. Due to market capitalization levels, we are required to comply with Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Under the current SEC rules, our auditors will be required to provide an attestation report regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting beginning in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. We devote additional financial resources, time and personnel to legal, financial and accounting activities to ensure our ongoing compliance with public company reporting requirements. In the future, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of the end of the preceding year or our auditors may be unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. If the auditors are unable to provide an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, it could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, adversely affect our stock price and our ability to access the capital markets or borrow money, and may subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in quarterly operating results, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, announcements of new products by us or our competitors, changes in the domestic and international economic, political and business conditions, general conditions in the housewares industry, the lack of liquidity in our trading market and other events or factors. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies that have been unrelated to their operating performance. These market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and now is an over-the-counter security quoted on The Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service. In August 2007, the New York Stock Exchange delisted our common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the “pink sheets” in the over-the-counter market under the trading symbol SFPI.PK. No assurance can be given that our common stock will continue to be traded on any stock exchange or market, that any broker will make a market in our common stock, or that any active trading market in our common stock will continue. Broker-dealers often decline to trade in “pink sheet” stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors is greater. Consequently, selling our common stock can be difficult because smaller quantities of shares can be bought and sold, transactions can be delayed and securities analyst and news media coverage of our company is reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock as well as lower trading volume. We 18 Table of Contents cannot assure you that, even if our common stock continues to be listed or quoted on the Pink Sheets or another market or system, the market for our common stock will be as liquid as we had been prior to delisting from the NYSE and the market price for our common stock may be adversely effected and become more volatile than the stock has been historically. This relative lack of liquidity also could make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. Companies quoted on the Pink Sheets are not subject to corporate governance requirements in order for their shares to be quoted, and we have more limited protections against conflicts of interest, related party transactions and similar matters. Our common stock currently trades as an over-the-counter security on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service. Corporate governance requirements are not imposed on companies quoted on the Pink Sheets. As a result of our delisting from the NYSE, we are not required to comply with any, and our stockholders no longer have the protection of, various NYSE corporate governance requirements, including among others: • the requirement that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that a minimum of three members of our board of directors consist of independent directors; • the requirement that we have an audit committee, a nominating/corporate governance committee and a compensation committee, in each case that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the audit, nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees; • the requirement that our stockholders must be given the opportunity to vote on equity-compensation plans and material revisions thereto; and • the requirement that we must adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees, and promptly disclose any waivers of the code of business conduct and ethics for directors or executive officers. We do not anticipate paying dividends. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our operations and for general corporate purposes, including future acquisitions. In addition, our financings contain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our capital stock. * * * * * Should one or more of these risks, uncertainties or other factors materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance, or achievements may vary materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements listed above. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that arise after the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 