risk factors described below, and (iii) other risks described from time to time in the Company's SEC filings. An investment in ShopKo's common stock or other securities carries certain risks. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below and other risks, which may be disclosed from time to time in ShopKo's filings with the SEC, before investing in ShopKo's common stock or other securities. The Company has a significant amount of debt, which could adversely affect its business and growth prospects. At January 29, 2005, the Company had approximately $332.3 million of total debt and lease obligations, including $85.7 million outstanding on an amended and restated senior secured revolving credit facility (the "Amended Secured Credit Facility"). The restrictions and limitations in the Amended Secured Credit Facility, as well as the significant amount of debt in general, could have material adverse effects on the Company's business. For example, it: - makes it more difficult for the Company to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, - restricts capital expenditures, - requires the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to the repayment of its debt and the interest on its debt, - limits the Company's ability to open new stores or to make acquisitions, - limits the Company's ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities, - makes the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse retail industry conditions and competitive pressures, and subjects the Company to certain covenants which restrict its ability to operate its business. The Company finances a significant portion of its operations through vendor financing. The credit terms provided by the Company's vendors are an important source of financing for the Company's operations. Future operating performance could negatively impact the favorable credit terms the Company now maintains with these vendors. If the credit terms provided to the Company 15 by a significant portion of its vendors were to deteriorate, the Company would be materially adversely affected. The Company may not achieve the expected benefits of current or future reorganizations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company announced a strategic reorganization plan to improve the productivity of its assets and reduce debt. The plan included store and distribution center closings and a charge to earnings of approximately $125 million. Based on the overall softness in the real estate market and an independent valuation analysis, the Company added $6.0 million to the reserve in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 and an additional $0.7 million to the reserve in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. Due to many variables and uncertainties, the Company may not achieve all of the expected benefits of its plan and additional charges may be necessary in the future. There can be no assurances that additional reorganizations of this nature, together with related charges to earnings, will not be required in the future to improve the productivity and efficiency in the Company's ShopKo and Pamida segments. Such reorganizations and charges to earnings could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The Company may be unable to execute its expansion plans, which may have a significant adverse effect on its financial performance and its growth strategy and prospects. The Company considers expansion in the number of its retail stores, in one format or another, to be an integral part of its plan to achieve projected operating results in future years. The Company expects that any new stores will typically require an extended period of time to reach the sales and profitability levels of its existing stores. The opening of any new stores does not ensure that those stores will ever be as profitable as existing stores, especially when those new stores are opened in highly competitive markets. The failure to expand by opening new retail stores as planned and the failure to generate anticipated sales and earnings growth in markets where new stores are opened could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future sales growth and profitability. If the Company is not able to remodel its existing store base on schedule or to carry out such plans in a cost-effective manner, then the Company's results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The Company believes that the identification of new store designs to fit its customers' changing lifestyles and preferences and the remodeling of its stores is a necessary aspect of its growth plans. The failure to upgrade the Company's existing retail stores could have a material adverse effect on the Company's anticipated sales and profitability. To the extent the Company is able to upgrade its existing stores, the associated expenses could result in a significant impact on our net income in the future and there can be no assurance that these upgrades will generate any of the anticipated benefits. The Company's quarterly performance fluctuates, which may cause volatility or a decline in the price of its securities. Fluctuations in the Company's quarterly operating results have occurred in the past and may occur in the future based on a variety of factors, including: - seasonality in the Company's operations, especially during the Christmas selling season which has historically contributed a significant part of the Company's earnings and primarily impacts the fourth fiscal quarter, - inventory imbalances caused by unanticipated fluctuations in consumer demand or inefficiencies in the Company's distribution centers and methods, - margin rate compression resulting from competitive pricing pressure, - increases and decreases in advertising and promotional expenses, 16 - changes in the Company's product mix, - the ability to manage operating expenses, and - the competitive and general economic conditions discussed below. These fluctuations could cause the Company's operating results to vary considerably from quarter to quarter and could materially adversely affect the market price of its securities. Competition in the retail industry could limit the Company's growth opportunities and reduce its profitability. The Company competes in the discount retail merchandise business. This business is highly competitive. The competitive environment subjects the Company to the risk of reduced profitability. The Company competes with other discount retail merchants as well as mass merchants, catalog merchants, internet retailers and other general merchandise, apparel and household merchandise retailers. The discount retail merchandise business is subject to excess capacity and some of the Company's competitors are much larger and have substantially greater resources than the Company. The competition for customers and store locations has intensified in recent years as larger competitors, such as Wal-Mart, Kmart and Target, have moved into the Company's geographic markets. The Company expects a further increase in competition from these national discount retailers. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to compete successfully. The long-term economic effects of U.S. and international political unrest and an extended economic slowdown could negatively affect the Company's financial condition. The ongoing military operations in Iraq, terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic uncertainties. These events could adversely affect the Company's business and operating results in ways that presently cannot be predicted. If terrorist attacks, political unrest, international conflict or other factors cause overall economic decline, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. General economic conditions and adverse weather could have a significant adverse effect on the Company's business. The Company operates its retail stores in limited regions of the country. To the extent adverse economic conditions and weather have a regional impact on the regions in which the Company operates, the Company may be disproportionately affected compared to peers that have a larger, national base of operations. General economic factors in the regions in which the Company operates that are beyond its control may materially adversely affect its forecasts and actual performance. The factors that may materially adversely affect its forecasts and actual performance include energy prices, interest rates, recession, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause these factors to change with a greater degree of frequency and magnitude. Because the Company's business is subject to adverse weather conditions in its retail markets, particularly in the Midwest, Western Mountain and Pacific Northwest regions, its operating results may be unexpectedly and materially adversely affected. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms in its markets could have a material adverse effect on its sales and earnings. The Company is dependent on the smooth functioning of its distribution network. The Company relies upon the ability to replenish its depleted inventory through deliveries to its distribution centers from vendors, and from the distribution centers to its stores and, to a limited extent, direct-to-store deliveries from vendors. Problems that cause delays or interruptions in the 17 distribution network could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. Labor conditions may have a material adverse impact on its performance. If the Company cannot attract and retain quality employees, its business will suffer. The Company depends on attracting and retaining quality employees. Many of its employees are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. The Company may be unable to meet its labor needs while controlling costs due to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. Anti-takeover provisions in the Company's organizational documents and statutes may inhibit premium offers for its common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in its amended and restated articles of incorporation, by-laws and Wisconsin law and its shareholder rights agreement (See Exhibit 4.2) may deter unfriendly offers or other efforts to obtain control of the Company. This could make the Company less attractive to a potential acquirer and deprive its shareholders of opportunities to sell their shares of common stock at a premium price. Pending or future changes in federal, state or local laws or regulations could negatively impact the Company. Various aspects of the Company's operations are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Any of these laws, rules or regulations could change at any time. Such changes could have the effect of increasing the Company's exposure to liabilities, increasing the cost of operations or restricting the ability to set prices. This is especially true with respect to our pharmacy business, which could be subject to any number of legislative proposals regarding prescription drugs. Pending or future litigation could subject the Company to significant monetary damages. If the Company becomes subject to liability claims that are in excess of its insurance coverage or are not covered by its insurance policies, the Company may be liable for damages and other expenses which could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any claims against the Company, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may have a material adverse effect on its reputation and business. The sale of retail merchandise and provision of in-store pharmacy and optical services entail a risk of litigation and liability. The Company is currently subject to a number of lawsuits, and expects that from time to time it will be subject to similar suits in the ordinary course of business. The Company currently maintains insurance intended to cover a majority of liability claims, subject to a $250,000 deductible for general liability claims and for liability claims arising from prescription dispensing errors. The Company believes that its insurance coverage is adequate. The Company cannot assure that it will be able to maintain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, that adequate replacement policies will be available on acceptable terms, or that insurance will cover all claims against the Company. 18 