ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of significant losses, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred substantial net losses and experienced negative cash flow for each quarter since our inception. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $313.2 million. We expect to incur losses in the near future. Moreover, we may never achieve profitability and, even if we do, we may not be able to maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate a sufficient level of revenue to offset our current level of expenses. Moreover, because our expenditures for sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative functions are relatively fixed in the short-term, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner to respond to any unanticipated decline in revenue. If we fail to achieve and maintain profitability within the timeframe expected by securities analysts or investors, then the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Each sale of our digital headend systems represents a significant portion of our revenue for any given quarter. Our failure to meet our quarterly forecast of sales of digital headend systems in any given quarter could have a material adverse impact on our financial results for a given quarter. Since November 2002, when we entered the market for digital TV headends, a large part of our quarterly revenue is associated with the sale of digital headend systems. Each sale represents a significant portion of our 13 Table of Contents revenue for each quarter. We base our operating forecast on our historical sales. Because of the high cost per unit of our digital headend systems, if we were to sell even one less system than our forecasted number of headend sales per quarter, such a decrease in sales would have a material and adverse impact on our revenue for that quarter. We operate in an intensely competitive marketplace, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. Our primary competitors in the digital TV headend market have been small private companies that were focused on a more narrow product line than ours, thereby allowing these competitors to devote substantially more targeted resources to developing and marketing new products than we can. As the market is currently evolving, we are witnessing a consolidation of competitors and in the future, we expect more competition from large public companies like Harmonic, Inc., Tandberg Television ASA, Scientific Atlanta (SA) and Motorola, Inc., all of which have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors have achieved success in providing TV headend components for cable multiple system operators and satellite TV providers. Although their products have been designed specifically to meet the needs of cable networks, we expect these competitors to market some of their products for use in TV over DSL applications. Indirect competition for our video content processing systems may arise from certain satellite service providers such as SES-Americom that intend to offer pre-compressed, constant-bit-rate video delivered via satellite to local terrestrial networks. Our competition in the market for surveillance and broadcast video transmission systems primarily comes from small private companies and public companies such as Tandberg that together offer a wide array of products with special features and functions. A few of these companies also compete with us in the digital TV headend market. Our broadband transport and service management products business tends to compete against public network equipment providers, such as Zhone Technologies, and private and foreign companies. To the extent that any of these current or potential future competitors enter or expand further into our markets, develop superior technology and products or offer superior prices or performance features relative to our products, such competition could result in lost sales and severe downward pressure on our pricing, either of which would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Commercial acceptance of any technological solution that competes with technology based on communication over copper telephone wire could materially and adversely impact demand for our products, our revenue and growth strategy. The markets for video content processing, transmission and high-speed data access systems and services are characterized by several competing communication technologies, including fiber optic cables, coaxial cables, satellites and other wireless facilities. Many of our products are based on communication over copper telephone wire. Because there are physical limits to the speed and distance over which data can be transmitted over copper wire, our products may not be a viable solution for customers requiring service at performance levels beyond the current limits of copper telephone wire. Our customer base is concentrated on telephone service providers that have a large investment in copper wire technology. If these customers lose market share to their competitors who use competing technologies that are not as constrained by physical limitations as copper telephone wire, and that are able to provide faster access, greater reliability, increased cost-effectiveness or other advantages, demand for our products will decrease. Moreover, to the extent that our customers choose to install fiber optic cable or other transmission media as part of their infrastructure, or to the extent that homes and businesses install other transmission media within buildings, demand for our products may decline. The occurrence of any one or more of these events would harm demand for our products, which would thereby adversely affect our revenue and growth strategy. 14 Table of Contents If the projected growth in demand for video services from telephone service providers does not materialize or if our customers find alternative methods of delivering video services, future sales of our video content processing systems will suffer. We manufacture video content processing systems that enable telephone service providers to offer video services to their customers. Our customers, the telephone service providers, face competition from cable companies, satellite service providers and wireless companies. For some users, these competing solutions provide fast access, high reliability and cost-effective solutions for delivering data, including video services. Telephone service providers hope to maintain their market share in their core business of voice telephony as well as increase their revenue per customer by offering their customers more services, including video services and high-speed data services. However, if the telephone service providers find alternative ways of maintaining and growing their market share in their core business that do not require that they offer video services, demand for our products will decrease substantially. Moreover, if technological advancements are developed that allow our customers to provide video services without upgrading their current system infrastructure, or that offer our customers a more cost-effective method of delivering video services, sales of our video content processing systems will suffer. Alternatively, even if the telephone service providers choose our video content processing systems, the service providers may not be successful in marketing video services to their customers, in which case our sales would decrease substantially. Our operating results fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and this may cause the price of our stock to decline. Over the last 12 quarters, our revenue per quarter has fluctuated between $5.1 million and $10.7 million. Over the same periods, our losses from operations as a percentage of revenue have fluctuated between approximately 5.2% and 71.1% of revenue. We anticipate that our sales and operating margins will continue to fluctuate. We expect this fluctuation to continue for a variety of reasons, including: • the timing of customers’ purchase decisions, acceptance of our new products and possible cancellations; • competitive pressures, including pricing pressures from our partners and competitors; • delays or problems in the introduction of our new products; • announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and • management of inventory levels. Fluctuations in our sales and operating margins will make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast our results of operations and this could negatively impact the market price of our stock. We depend on international sales for a significant portion of our revenue, which subjects our business to a number of risks. If we are unable to generate significant international sales, our revenue, profitability and share price could be materially and adversely affected. Sales to customers outside of the United States accounted for approximately 18.4%, 23.3% and 22.6% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004, and 2005 respectively. Sales and operating activities outside of the United States are subject to inherent risks, including fluctuations in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies; tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; political and economic instability; restrictions on the export or import of technology; potentially limited intellectual property protection; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow or maintain international revenue. We expect sales to customers outside of the United States to represent a significant and growing portion of our revenue. However, we cannot assure you that foreign markets for our products will develop at the rate or to the extent that we anticipate. If we fail to generate significant international sales, our revenue, profitability and share price could be materially and adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents The sales cycle for video content processing systems is long and unpredictable, which requires us to incur high sales and marketing expenses with no assurance that a sale will result. The sales cycle for our headend systems can be as long as 12-18 months. Additionally, with respect to the sale of our products to U.S. and foreign government organizations, we may experience long sales cycles as a result of government procurement processes. As a result, while we continue to incur costs associated with a particular sale prior to payment from the customer, we may not recognize revenue from efforts to sell particular products for extended periods of time. As a result, our quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful and may not provide an accurate indicator of our future performance. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant decline in the market price of our common stock. If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, our revenue, profitability and reputation could be harmed. We rely on contract manufacturers and third-party equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, to manufacture, assemble, test and package our products. We also depend on third-party suppliers for the materials and parts that constitute our products. Our reliance on contract manufacturers, OEMs and third-party suppliers requires us to accurately forecast the demand for our products and coordinate our efforts with those of our contract manufacturers, OEMs and suppliers. We often make significant up-front financial commitments with our contract manufacturers, OEMs and suppliers in order to procure the raw materials and begin manufacturing and assembly of the products. If we fail to accurately forecast demand or coordinate our efforts with our suppliers, OEMs and contract manufacturers, we may face supply, manufacturing or testing capacity constraints. These constraints could result in delays in the delivery of our products, which could lead to the loss of existing or potential customers and could thereby result in lost sales and damage to our reputation, which would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Further, we outsource the manufacturing of our products based on forecasts of sales. If orders for our products exceed our forecasts, we may have difficulty meeting customers’ orders in a timely manner, which could damage our reputation or result in lost sales. Conversely, if our forecasts exceed the orders we actually receive and we are unable to cancel future purchase and manufacturing commitments in a timely manner, our inventory levels would increase. This could expose us to losses related to slow moving and obsolete inventory, which would have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If we fail to develop and introduce new products in response to the rapid technological changes in the markets in which we compete, we will not remain competitive. The markets for video content processing, transmission and high-speed data access systems are characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent enhancements to existing products and new product introductions, changes in end-user requirements and evolving industry standards. To remain competitive, we must continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products. For example, advances in compression technology are leading the video content processing industry to begin the transition to next generation compression standards. These advances will allow for further reductions in the bandwidth required to deliver standard definition video channels and introduce the capability of delivering high-definition television over asymmetrical digital subscriber lines or ADSL, for the first time. ADSL is a new technology that allows more data to be transmitted over copper telephone lines than standard DSL. Further advances in compression technology, or the emergence of new industry standards would require that we modify or redesign our products to incorporate, and remain compatible with, emerging technologies and industry standards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond quickly and effectively to technological change. We may have only limited time to enter certain markets, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving widespread acceptance of our products before competitors can offer products and services similar or superior to our products. If we fail to introduce new products that address technological changes or if we experience delays in our product introductions, our ability to compete would be adversely affected, thereby harming our revenue, profitability and growth strategy. 16 Table of Contents Fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates may decrease demand for our products. Substantially all of our foreign sales are invoiced in U.S. dollars. As a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates could cause our products to become relatively more expensive for international customers, thereby reducing demand for our products. We anticipate that we will generally continue to invoice foreign sales in U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in foreign currency hedging transactions. However, as we expand our current international operations, we may allow payment in foreign currencies and, as a result, our exposure to foreign currency transaction losses may increase. To reduce this exposure, we may purchase forward foreign exchange contracts or use other hedging strategies. However, we cannot assure you that any currency hedging strategy would be successful in avoiding exchange-related losses. Any such losses would adversely impact our profitability. If our contract manufacturers, third-party OEMs and third-party suppliers fail to produce quality products or parts in a timely manner, we may not be able to meet our customers’ demands. We do not manufacture our products. We rely on contract manufacturers and OEMs to manufacture, assemble, package and test substantially all of our products and to purchase most of the raw materials and components used in our products. Additionally, we depend on third-party suppliers to provide quality parts and materials to our contract manufacturers and OEMs, and we obtain some of the key components and sub-assemblies used in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Neither we nor our contract manufacturers or OEMs have any guaranteed supply arrangements with the suppliers. If our suppliers fail to provide a sufficient supply of key components, we could experience difficulties in obtaining alternative sources at reasonable prices, if at all, or in altering product designs to use alternative components. Moreover, if our contract manufacturers or OEMs fail to deliver quality products in a timely manner, such failure would harm our ability to meet our scheduled product deliveries to customers. Delays and reductions in product shipments could increase our production costs, damage customer relationships and harm our revenue and profitability. In addition, if our contract manufacturers and OEMs fail to perform adequate quality control and testing of our products, we would experience increased production costs for product repair and replacement, and our profitability would be harmed. Moreover, defects in products that are not discovered in the quality assurance process could damage customer relationships and result in product returns or product liability claims, each of which could harm our revenue, profitability and reputation. Design defects in our products could harm our reputation, revenue and profitability. Any defect or deficiency in our products could reduce the functionality, effectiveness or marketability of our products. These defects or deficiencies could cause customers to cancel or delay their orders for our products, reduce revenue or render our product designs obsolete. In any of these events, we would be required to devote substantial financial and other resources for a significant period of time to develop new product designs. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in addressing any design defects in our products or in developing new product designs in a timely manner, if at all. Any of these events, individually or in the aggregate, could harm our revenue, profitability and reputation. Our business depends on the integrity of our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property, our revenue, profitability, reputation or growth strategy could be adversely affected. We attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology through patents, trademarks and copyrights, by generally entering into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, strategic partners and customers as needed, and by generally limiting access to and distribution of our trade secret technology and proprietary information. However, any of our pending or future patent or trademark applications may not ultimately be issued as patents or trademarks of the scope that we sought, if at all, and any of our patents, trademarks or copyrights may be invalidated, deemed unenforceable, or otherwise challenged. In addition, other parties may circumvent or design around our patents and other intellectual property rights, may misappropriate our proprietary technology, or may otherwise develop similar, duplicate or superior products. 17 Table of Contents Further, the intellectual property laws and our agreements may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights and effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries in which we do business or may do business in the future. The telecommunications and data communications industries are characterized by the existence of extensive patent portfolios and frequent intellectual property litigation. From time to time, we have received, and may in the future receive, claims that we are infringing third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any present or future claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management time and attention and other resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, any such litigation could force us to cease selling or using certain products or services, or to redesign such products or services. Further, we may in the future, initiate claims or litigation against third-parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of our intellectual property rights or those of competitors. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect upon our revenue, profitability, reputation or growth strategy. If we fail to provide our customers with adequate and timely customer support, our relationships with our customers could be damaged, which would harm our revenue and profitability. Our ability to achieve our planned sales growth and retain customers will depend in part on the quality of our customer support operations. Our customers generally require significant support and training with respect to our products, particularly in the initial deployment and implementation stage. As our systems and products become more complex, we believe our ability to provide adequate customer support will be increasingly important to our success. We have limited experience with widespread deployment of our products to a diverse customer base, and we cannot assure you that we will have adequate personnel to provide the levels of support that our customers may require during initial product deployment or on an ongoing basis. Our failure to provide sufficient support to our customers could delay or prevent the successful deployment of our products. Failure to provide adequate support could also have an adverse impact on our reputation and relationship with our customers, could prevent us from gaining new customers and could harm our revenue and profitability. We routinely evaluate acquisition candidates and other diversification strategies. We have completed a number of acquisitions as part of our efforts to expand and diversify our business. For example, we acquired our video content processing and video transmission businesses from Tektronix in November 2002 when we purchased its subsidiary, VTC. In addition, on June 1, 2005, we completed an acquisition with Copper Mountain Networks, Inc. We intend to continue to evaluate new acquisition candidates, divestiture and diversification strategies, and if we fail to manage the integration of acquired companies, it could adversely affect our operations and growth strategy. Any acquisition involves numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the acquired company’s employees, operations and products, uncertainties associated with operating in new markets and working with new customers, and the potential loss of the acquired company’s key employees. Additionally, we may incur unanticipated expenses, difficulties and other adverse consequences relating to the integration of technologies, research and development, and administrative and other functions. Any future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, acquisition or divestiture related write-offs and the assumption of debt and contingent liabilities. Any of the above factors could adversely affect our revenue, profitability, operations or growth strategy. Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made acquisitions, such as our acquisition of Copper Mountain. We are likely to make more acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of 18 Table of Contents information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, there is no guarantee that any of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions do not reach our initial expectations, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include but are not limited to: • absence of adequate internal controls or presence of significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; • any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases; • our ability to retain key employees; and • the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. These factors, among others, will affect whether our recent and proposed acquisitions are successfully integrated into our business. Additionally, any future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, acquisition or divestiture related write-offs and the assumption of debt and contingent liabilities. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully, we may be unable to achieve our revenue, profitability, operations, strategic goals and our competitive position in the marketplace could suffer. If we fail to manage our expanding operations, our ability to increase our revenues and improve our results of operations could be harmed. We anticipate that, in the future, we may need to expand certain areas of our business to grow our customer base and exploit market opportunities. In particular, we expect to face numerous challenges in the implementation of our business strategy to focus on selling our products to the larger, more established service providers. To manage our operations, we must, among other things, continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information systems, hire and train additional qualified personnel, continue to expand and upgrade core technologies and effectively manage multiple relationships with various customers, suppliers and other third-parties. We cannot assure you that our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations or that our management will be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to exploit fully the market for our products or systems. If we are unable to manage our operations effectively, our revenue, results of operations and share price could be harmed. If material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting were to develop and we were unable to remedy such weaknesses in an effective and timely manner, such weaknesses could materially and adversely affect our ability to provide the public with timely and accurate material information about Tut Systems. In order for investors and the equity analyst community to make informed investment decisions and recommendations about our securities, it is important that we provide them with accurate and timely information in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and the rules promulgated thereunder. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures would hinder the flow of timely and accurate information to investors. If such material weaknesses were to develop and we did not address them in a timely matter, investors might sell our shares and industry analysts might either make incorrect recommendations about Tut Systems or else end coverage of Tut Systems altogether, any of which results could harm our reputation and adversely impact our share price. 19 Table of Contents We are currently engaged in a securities class action lawsuit which, if it were to result in an unfavorable resolution, could adversely affect our reputation, profitability and share price. We are currently engaged as a defendant in a lawsuit (i.e., Whalen v. Tut Systems, Inc. et al.) that alleges securities law violations against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act. Additionally, our subsidiary Copper Mountain, which we acquired on June 1, 2005, was in December 2001, along with certain of its officers and directors, named as defendants in a class action shareholder complaint filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, now captioned In re Copper Mountain Networks, Inc. Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, Case No. 01-CV-10943 alleging violations of securities laws under Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act. As a result of the acquisition, we have inherited the responsibility and obligations of Copper Mountain to defend the claims in that case and we are exposed to any liability that may come out of the claims. The Whalen action and the Copper Mountain action are being coordinated with approximately 300 suits before United States District Judge Shira Scheindlin of the Southern District of New York under the matter In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation. While we have reached a settlement with the plaintiffs in the Whalen lawsuit, and prior to the acquisition Copper Mountain reached a settlement in the Copper Mountain action, the settlements are subject to certain contingencies, including court approval of the terms of settlements. If the court does not approve the settlements, or any other applicable contingencies are not resolved or otherwise addressed, we would be required to resume litigation in these matters. If our products do not comply with complex government regulations, our product sales will suffer. We and our customers are subject to varying degrees of federal, state and local as well as foreign governmental regulation. Our products must comply with various regulations and standards defined by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC. The FCC has issued regulations that set installation and equipment standards for communications systems. Our products are also required to meet certain safety requirements. For example, Underwriters Laboratories must certify certain of our products in order to meet federal safety requirements relating to electrical appliances to be used inside the home. In addition, certain products must be Network Equipment Building Standard certified before certain of our customers may deploy them. Any delay in or failure to obtain these approvals could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Outside of the United States, our products are subject to the regulatory requirements of each country in which our products are manufactured or sold. These requirements are likely to vary widely. If we do not obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates, we would not be able to sell our products where these regulations apply, which could prevent us from maintaining or growing our revenue or achieving profitability. In addition, regulation of our customers may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, FCC regulatory policies affecting the availability of data and Internet services and other terms on which telecommunications companies conduct their business may impede our entry into certain markets. In addition, the increasing demand for communications systems has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards, generally following extensive investigation of competing technologies. The delays inherent in this governmental approval process may cause the cancellation, postponement or rescheduling of the installation of communications systems by our customers, which in turn may harm our sale of products to these customers. If we lose key personnel or are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as necessary, we may not be able to manage our business successfully, which could materially and adversely affect our growth strategy, reputation and share price. We depend on the performance of Salvatore D’Auria, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and on other senior management and technical personnel with experience in the video and data communications, telecommunications and high-speed data access industries. The loss of any one of them could harm our ability to execute our business strategy, which could adversely affect our reputation and share price. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, we do not have employment contracts with any of our executive officers. We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to identify, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled employees who are in great demand. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Our stock price is volatile, and, if you invest in Tut Systems, you may suffer a loss of some or all of your investment. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been subject to significant volatility, and this trend may continue. In particular, trading volume historically has been low and the market price of our common stock has increased dramatically in recent months. Since the announcement of our acquisition of VTC, the closing price of our common stock, as traded on The Nasdaq National Market, has fluctuated from a low of $1.23 to a high of $7.49 per share. The value of our common stock may decline regardless of our operating performance or prospects. Factors affecting our market price include: • our perceived prospects; • variations in our operating results and whether we have achieved our key business targets; • the limited number of shares of our common stock available for purchase or sale in the public markets; • differences between our reported results and those expected by investors and securities analysts; • announcements of new contracts, products or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and • market reaction to any acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic investments announced by us or our competitors. Recent events have caused stock prices for many companies, including ours, to fluctuate in ways unrelated or disproportionate to their operating performance. The general economic, political and stock market conditions that may affect the market price of our common stock are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock at any particular time may not remain the market price in the future. In the past, securities class action litigation has been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Any such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Future sales of shares of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. Substantially all of our common stock may be sold without restriction in the public markets, subject only in the case of shares held by our officers and directors and affiliates to volume and manner of sale restrictions (other than as described in the following sentence). The approximately 3.3 million shares of common stock that we issued to Tektronix in connection with our November 2002 acquisition of VTC were restricted securities, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, and therefore subject to certain restrictions. However, we are contractually obligated to file and keep effective a registration statement in order to allow Tektronix to sell these shares to the public. Likewise, Tektronix has the right (subject to certain exceptions) to include these shares in certain registration statements pursuant to which we may sell shares of our common stock. During 2005, Tektronix sold 1.0 million shares of common stock. At December 31, 2005, Tektronix owns 2.3 million shares of common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market, whether or not in connection with this offering, or the perception that these sales could occur could materially and adversely affect our stock price and make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. Our charter, bylaws, retention and change of control plans and Delaware law contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws and our retention and change of control plans, referred to as the “Plans,” may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or of discouraging a third- party from attempting to acquire, control of us. The provisions of the charter and bylaws and the Plans could 21 Table of Contents limit the price that certain investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors, eliminate cumulative voting in the election of directors, restrict our stockholders from acting by written consent and calling special meetings, and provide for procedures for advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. In addition, our board has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible financings or acquisitions or other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. The Plans provide for severance payments and accelerated stock option vesting in the event of termination of employment following a change of control. The provisions of the charter and bylaws, and the Plans, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change of control and prevent changes in our management. Recent and proposed regulations related to equity compensation could adversely affect earnings, affect our ability to raise capital and affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Since our inception, we have used stock options as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that our stock option plans are an essential tool to link the long-term interests of stockholders and employees, especially executive management, and serve to motivate our employees to make decisions that will, in the long run, give the best returns to stockholders. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has announced changes to U.S. GAAP that will require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and employee stock purchase plan rights for all future periods beginning on January 1, 2006. This standard will negatively impact our earnings and may affect our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms. To the extent that new accounting standards make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. We are exposed to additional costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We are spending an increased amount of management time and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules. Particularly, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, when it becomes applicable to us, will require management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting by management. We expect that our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting beginning with the filing of the annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and with each subsequently filed annual report on Form 10-K. We expect to incur significant additional accounting and legal expenses in the process of documenting and testing our internal control systems and procedures and in making improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. We cannot predict the outcome of our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified opinion as of future year-ends, investors may lose confidence in our financial statements, and the price of our stock may suffer. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 