ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain matters that may affect us. An adverse change in general or local economic conditions could affect the demand for homes and reduce our earnings. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the local or regional markets in which we operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes, either of which could result in a reduction in our revenues or deterioration of our margins. Customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our homes at times when mortgage-financing costs are high or as credit quality declines. The majority of our homebuyers finance their purchases through our financial services operations or third-party lenders. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality, tightening of mortgage loan underwriting standards, or other issues. If mortgage interest rates increase or mortgage loans become more difficult to obtain, the ability or willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our operating results. We are now experiencing our first downturn in a number of years. Continuation of this downturn may result in a continuing reduction in our revenues and deterioration of our margins. We are now experiencing our first downturn in a number of years. Prior to this downturn, we experienced significant price appreciation in many of our markets. This price appreciation, coupled with rising interest rates, has resulted in the decreased affordability of new homes in many of our markets. If buyers are unable to afford new homes in these markets, prices will no longer increase or may decline, which will harm both our revenues and margins. In addition, many of our competitors are aggressively liquidating land and new home inventories by selling homes at significantly reduced prices. At the same time we are also competing with the resale of existing homes, rental homes, and “almost new” homes owned by speculators seeking to exit the market. An increase in the number of mortgage loan defaults has also increased the supply of homes available for sale at reduced prices. All of these actions have resulted in a meaningful increase in the supply of homes available for sale, which may continue or increase, making it more difficult for us to sell our homes and to maintain our profit margins. We may be unable to obtain suitable financing and bonding for the development of our communities. Our business depends substantially on our ability to obtain financing for the acquisition, development and construction of our residential communities and to provide bonds to ensure the completion of our projects. If we 10 Table of Contents are unable to finance the development of our communities through our credit facility or other debt, or equity, or if we are unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could be adversely affected. We may be unable to renew or extend our outstanding debt instruments when they mature. We have a significant amount of debt. Our $1.1 billion senior credit facility which, as of December 31, 2006, had borrowings outstanding of $289.5 million, matures in August 2009. In addition, we have an aggregate of $1.45 billion in senior notes and term loans that mature between 2008 and 2015. We cannot assure that we will be able to extend or renew these debt arrangements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to renew or extend these debt arrangements, it could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources and financial condition. We may be unable to maintain compliance with the financial covenants contained in our debt instruments. Our revolving credit facility, term loans and our note indentures impose restrictions on our operations and activities, limit the amount we can borrow under the revolving credit facility and from other sources (including through unconsolidated joint ventures), and require us to comply with certain financial covenants. The financial covenants in our revolving credit facility, which are our most restrictive covenants, include a minimum net worth requirement, a leverage limitation, a maximum ratio of unsold land to net worth, and a minimum interest coverage ratio. While we were in compliance with these financial covenants at December 31, 2006, certain of our financial ratios are being negatively impacted by current market conditions and there can be no assurance that we will remain in compliance with these ratios if slowing market conditions continue or worsen. If we were unable to comply with any one or more of these financial covenants, we could be precluded from incurring additional borrowings under the revolving credit facility and our obligation to repay indebtedness outstanding under the facility, our term loans, and our note indentures could be accelerated in full. Our ability to implement our business plan could be adversely affected by a negative change in our credit rating. Our ability to continue to grow our business and operations in a profitable manner depends to a significant extent upon our ability to access capital on favorable terms. If any of the principal credit agencies were to downgrade our credit rating for any reason, it would become more difficult and costly for us to access the capital that is required in order to implement our business plan and achieve the objectives reflected in our business plan. We depend on the California market and, to a lesser extent, the Arizona and Florida markets. An adverse change in any or all of these markets could harm our sales and earnings. Although we have increased our geographic diversification in recent years, we still generate a significant amount of our revenues and profits in the state. In addition, a significant portion of our business, revenues and profits outside of California is concentrated in Arizona and Florida. Demand for new homes, and in some instances home prices, have recently been declining in California, Arizona and Florida, negatively impacting our earnings and financial position. There can be no assurance that our earnings and financial position will not be further impacted if the challenging conditions in these markets continue or worsen. States, cities and counties in which we operate may adopt slow growth initiatives reducing our ability or increasing our costs to build in these areas, which could harm our future sales and earnings. Several states, cities and counties in which we operate have in the past approved, or approved for inclusion on their ballot, various “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of slow or no growth measures would reduce our ability to open new home communities and to build and sell homes in the affected markets, including with respect to land we may already own, and would create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could harm our future sales and earnings. 11 Table of Contents The market value and availability of land may fluctuate significantly, which could limit our ability to develop new communities and decrease the value of our developed and undeveloped land holdings. The risk of owning developed and undeveloped land can be substantial for homebuilders. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions, such as the conditions we are currently experiencing which have resulted in impairments of a number of our land positions and write-offs of certain of our land option deposits and preacquisition costs. In the event current market conditions continue to deteriorate, our competition adjusts their pricing strategy or if other significant adverse changes in economic or market conditions occur, we may have to impair additional land holdings and work in progress, write-down or write-off goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions, write-down our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, write-off option deposits and preacquisition costs, sell homes or land at a loss, and/or hold land or homes in inventory longer than planned. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant, particularly if inventory must be held for longer than planned, which can trigger asset impairments in a poorly performing project or market. Our success also depends in part upon the continued availability of suitable land at acceptable prices. The availability of land for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the risk of competitive over-bidding of land prices and restrictive governmental regulation. Should suitable land opportunities become less available, it could limit our ability to develop new communities, increase land costs and negatively impact our sales and earnings. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and, with more limited resources than some of our competitors, we may not be able to compete effectively. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous other residential construction firms, including large national and regional firms, for customers, land, financing, raw materials, skilled labor and employees. We compete for customers primarily on the basis of the location, design, quality and price of our homes and the availability of mortgage financing. Some of our competitors have substantially larger operations and greater financial resources than we do, and as a result may have lower costs of capital, labor and materials than us, and may be able to compete more effectively for land acquisition opportunities. As a result of an ongoing consolidation trend in the industry, some of these competitors may continue to grow significantly in size. Our mortgage operations are also subject to intense competition from other mortgage lenders, many of which are substantially larger and may have a lower cost of funds or effective overhead burden than our lending operations. We also compete with mortgage brokers. This competition can intensify during periods of rising interest rates as refinance business diminishes. The design and construction of high density urban homebuilding projects present unique challenges, and we have less experience in this business. In recent years we have expanded our homebuilding business to include high-density urban infill projects. Such projects present challenges in development, construction, and marketing that are different than our traditional operations and we have less experience designing, constructing and selling these types of projects. Our inexperience could harm us, causing our overall results of operations to be adversely affected. Labor and material shortages could delay or increase the cost of home construction and reduce our sales and earnings. The residential construction industry experiences serious labor and material shortages from time to time, including shortages in qualified trades people, and supplies of insulation, drywall, cement, steel and lumber. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during 12 Table of Contents periods where the regions in which we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. From time to time, we have experienced volatile price swings in the cost of labor and materials, including in particular the cost of lumber, cement, steel and drywall. Shortages and price increases could cause delays in and increase our costs of home construction, which in turn could harm our operating results. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters may disrupt or delay construction. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters, such as earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged rain or snow, and wildfires can negatively affect our operations by requiring us to delay or halt construction or to perform potentially costly repairs to our projects under construction and to unsold homes. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can increase costs and reduce profitability. Our homebuilding operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, including environmental, building, worker health and safety, zoning and land use regulation. This regulation affects all aspects of the homebuilding process and can substantially delay or increase the costs of homebuilding activities, even on land for which we already have approvals. During the development process, we must obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities that regulate matters such as: • permitted land uses, levels of density and architectural designs; • the installation of utility services, such as water and waste disposal; • the dedication of acreage for open space, parks, schools and other community services; and • the preservation of habitat for endangered species and wetlands. The approval process can be lengthy, can be opposed by consumer or environmental groups, and can cause significant delays or permanently halt the development process. Delays or a permanent halt in the development process can cause substantial increases to development costs or cause us to abandon the project and to sell the affected land at a potential loss, which in turn could harm our operating results. In addition, new housing developments, including in California where a significant portion of our business is conducted, are often subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, highways and other public improvements. The costs of these assessments can be substantial and can cause increases in the effective prices of our homes, which in turn could reduce our sales. Our mortgage operations are also subject to federal, state, and local regulation, including eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and various consumer protection laws. Our title insurance agency operations are subject to applicable insurance laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can lead to administrative enforcement actions, the loss of required licenses and other required approvals, claims for monetary damages or demands for loan repurchase from investors, and rescission or voiding of the loan by the consumer. We are subject to product liability and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which can be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. While we maintain product liability insurance and generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for liabilities arising from their work, there can be no assurance that these insurance rights and indemnities will be adequate to cover all construction defect and warranty claims for which we may be liable. For example, contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we are often responsible for applicable self-insured retentions 13 Table of Contents (particularly in markets where we include our subcontractors on our general liability insurance), certain claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits, and one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent. Additionally, the coverage offered by and availability of product liability insurance for construction defects is limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. We currently have significant amounts invested in unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we have less than a controlling interest. These investments are highly illiquid and have significant risks. We participate in numerous unconsolidated homebuilding and land development joint ventures with independent third parties in which we have less than a controlling interest. Our participation in these types of joint ventures has increased over time and will likely continue to represent a meaningful portion of our business. At December 31, 2006, we had invested an aggregate of $310.7 million in these joint ventures, which had borrowings outstanding of approximately $1,256.4 million. While these joint ventures provide us with a means of accessing larger land parcels and lot positions while managing our risk profile, they are subject to a number of risks including the following: • Entitlement Risk. Certain of our joint ventures acquire parcels of unentitled raw land. If we are unable to timely obtain entitlements at a reasonable cost, project delay or even project termination may occur resulting in an impairment of the value of our investment. • Development Risk. The projects we build through joint ventures are often larger and have a longer time horizon than the typical project developed by our wholly-owned homebuilding operations. Time delays associated with obtaining entitlements, unforeseen development issues, unanticipated labor and material cost increases, and general market deterioration are more likely to impact larger, long-term projects, all of which may negatively impact the profitability of these ventures and our proportionate share of income. • Financing Risk. There are a limited number of sources willing to provide acquisition, development and construction financing to land development and homebuilding joint ventures. As the use of joint venture arrangements by us and our competitors increases and as market conditions become more challenging, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain financing for our joint ventures on commercially reasonable terms. • Contribution Risk. Under credit enhancements that we typically provide with respect to joint venture borrowings, we and our partners could be required to make additional investments in these joint ventures, either in the form of capital contributions or loan repayments, to reduce such outstanding borrowings. In addition, we may have to make additional contributions that exceed our proportional share of capital if our partners fail to contribute. • Completion Risk. We often sign a completion agreement in connection with obtaining financing for our joint ventures. Under such agreements, we may be compelled to complete a project even if we no longer have an economic interest in the property. • Illiquid Investment Risk. We lack a controlling interest in our joint ventures and therefore are generally unable to compel our joint ventures to sell assets, return invested capital, make additional capital contributions or take any other action without the vote of at least one or more of our venture partners. This means that, absent partner agreement, we will be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. • Partner Dispute. If we have a dispute with one of our joint venture partners and are unable to resolve it, the buy-sell provision in the applicable joint venture agreement could be triggered. In such an instance, we may be required to either sell our interest to our partner or purchase our partner’s interest. If we are required to sell our interest, we will forgo the profit we would have otherwise earned with respect to the joint venture project. If we are required to purchase our partner’s interest, we will be required to fund 14 Table of Contents this purchase, as well as the completion of the joint venture project, with corporate level capital and to consolidate the joint venture project onto our balance sheet, which could, among other things, adversely impact our liquidity and our leverage. • Consolidation Risk. The accounting rules for joint ventures are complex and the decision as to whether it is proper to consolidate a joint venture onto our balance sheet is fact intensive. If the facts concerning an unconsolidated joint venture were to change and a triggering event under applicable accounting rules were to occur, we might be required to consolidate the previously unconsolidated joint venture onto our balance sheet which could adversely impact our leverage. We may not be able to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions which could harm our profitability and divert management resources. We may from time to time acquire other homebuilders. Successful acquisitions require us to correctly identify appropriate acquisition candidates and to integrate acquired operations and management with our own. Should we make an error in judgment when identifying an acquisition candidate, should the acquired operations not perform as anticipated, or should we fail to successfully integrate acquired operations and management, we will likely fail to realize the benefits we intended to derive from the acquisition and may suffer other adverse consequences. Acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including the diversion of the attention of our management and corporate staff from operating our existing business and potential charges to earnings in the event of any write-down or write-off of goodwill and other assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify, complete and integrate strategic acquisitions. We are dependent on the services of key employees and the loss of any of these individuals or an inability to hire additional personnel could adversely effect us. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain skilled employees, including senior level personnel with significant management and leadership skills. Competition for the services of these individuals in most of our operating markets is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees, we may be unable to accomplish the objectives set forth in our business plan. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 