Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statements Our business is subject to significant risks. We caution readers that the following important factors, among others, in some cases have affected, and in the future, could affect, our actual consolidated results and could cause our actual consolidated results in the future to differ materially from the goals and expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements in this report and in any other forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to our Business Our earnings from our trusts can be reduced by declines in stock and bond prices and interest and dividend rates, which can have a significant adverse effect on our gross profit, net earnings and cash flows. Because of our preneed sales activities and the related state trusting requirements that accompany preneed sales, our business is impacted by changes in financial markets. We maintain three types of trusts: (1) preneed funeral merchandise and services, (2) preneed cemetery merchandise and services and (3) cemetery perpetual care. Our trust assets are generally invested in a mix of equity and fixed-income securities, and dividend and interest earnings and investment gains and losses are affected by financial market conditions that are not within our control. Generally, declines in market performance reduce the earnings in our trusts and reduce our earnings and cash flow. In addition, any significant or sustained investment losses could result in there being insufficient funds in the trusts to cover the cost of delivering services and merchandise in the future and result in there being less funds available to defray the costs of cemetery maintenance. Any such deficiency would have to be covered by operating cash flow, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our subsidiary, ITI, earns trust management fees based on the fair market value of the trusts managed; therefore, declines in the fair market value of the assets in the trusts decrease the amount of fees we collect and record for trust management. 10 Table of Contents In fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, cemetery perpetual care trust earnings, funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trust earnings and ITI trust management fees comprised 6 percent, 6 percent and 7 percent of our revenue, respectively, and 30 percent, 31 percent and 36 percent of our gross profit, for each respective year. During fiscal year 2008 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, we experienced significant declines in the market value of our trust portfolio, consistent with overall market declines during that time period. During fiscal year 2010, our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trusts experienced a total return of 14.2 percent, and our cemetery perpetual care trust experienced a total return of 15.1 percent. However, these improved returns did not restore all of the market value lost during fiscal year 2008 and early 2009. On October 31, 2007, the aggregate market value of our trust portfolio was $926.7 million, and on October 31, 2010, it was $795.4 million. Declines in our perpetual care trust earnings and in revenue for fees we earn for managing our trusts impact current revenue, while earnings on preneed funeral merchandise and services and preneed cemetery merchandise and services are allocated to the underlying contracts and recognized as revenue when the underlying products or services are delivered. During fiscal year 2010, we recognized $1.4 million more in revenue than we did in fiscal year 2009 from trust-related activities, or $30.7 million in fiscal year 2010 compared to $29.3 million in fiscal year 2009. By comparison, in fiscal year 2007, we recognized $38.5 million from trust-related activities. Based on current market conditions as of October 31, 2010, we believe the revenue from trust earnings recognized on delivery of preneed services and merchandise, cemetery perpetual care earnings and trust management fees for fiscal year 2011 would be about the same as for fiscal year 2010. If market conditions further deteriorate or we experience additional realized losses, trust-related revenue would likely further decrease. The preneed contracts we manage are long-term in nature, and we believe the trust investments will appreciate in value over the long-term. However, whether they will appreciate and over what time period are unknown. Additional information regarding our trusts and related risks are described in the risk factors that follow. Earnings in preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trusts may be reduced by declines in stock and bond prices and will be reduced by declines in interest and dividend rates, resulting in lower future revenues and cash flows, and potential contract impairment charges. Declines in earnings in our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trusts can cause a decline in our reported future revenues and cash flows. With respect to these trusts, we defer recognition and generally withdrawal of dividends, interest income and realized earnings until the underlying product or service is delivered. Realized gains and losses generally have no immediate impact on our revenues, margins, earnings or cash flow, except to the extent there are tax consequences as described later in these risk factors. Dividends, interest income and realized gains and losses are allocated to the underlying contracts and will affect the amount of future revenue recognized, and cash withdrawn, at the time the specific contract is performed. In our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trusts, at October 31, 2010, the fair market value of the investments in the trusts of $565.0 million was $138.6 million lower than our cost basis of $703.6 million. In most of our trusts, unrealized gains and losses are not allocated to individual contracts, in accordance with our trust agreements; however, as gains and losses are realized, they are allocated to the underlying contracts and will affect the amount of earnings we recognize and cash we withdraw at the time the contracts are ultimately performed. As of October 31, 2010, we had $212.1 million in earnings that have been realized and allocated to contracts that we will recognize in the future when the underlying contracts are performed. Therefore, significant unrealized losses in these trusts, if they do not recover over time, can limit future earnings available to us. For fiscal years 2010 and 2009, funeral trust earnings included in our reported revenue amounted to $11.3 million, and cemetery merchandise and service trust earnings amounted to $2.6 million and $3.2 million, respectively. If the fair market value of these trusts were to decline below the estimated costs to deliver the underlying products and services, we would record a charge to earnings to record a liability for the expected losses on the delivery of the associated contract. As of October 31, 2010, no such charge was required. For additional information, see Note 2(m) to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Realized capital losses in preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trusts for which we are the grantor, if we have or expect insufficient offsetting capital gains, can cause increases in our current period effective tax rate and a reduction of our current period reported net earnings and a reduction in operating cash flows in future periods. 11 Table of Contents Approximately one-half of the October 31, 2010 fair market value of our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trusts are trusts for which we are the grantor. For these trusts (unlike the remaining trusts for which the customers are the grantors), we retain the income tax characteristics of all earnings as realized in the trust. For example, capital gains and losses in the trusts are capital gains and losses on our tax returns. In addition, we must recognize these earnings currently for tax purposes, while for book purposes they are deferred until the contract is performed. For fiscal years 2010 and 2009, the trusts for which we are the grantor realized net losses for book purposes of $1.0 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Realized capital losses in the trusts for which we are the grantor, if we have or expect insufficient offsetting capital gains, can require us to record a valuation allowance against the related deferred tax asset (capital loss carryforward), which increases our current period effective tax rate and reduces our current period reported net earnings. During fiscal year 2008, we recorded a tax valuation allowance of $7.4 million related to capital losses realized in our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trusts for which we are the grantor for tax purposes. We recorded an additional $0.4 million tax valuation allowance in fiscal year 2009 and were able to reduce the allowance by $1.8 million in fiscal year 2010. Essentially, the current period valuation allowance reflects the fact that, if we cannot generate capital gains in the future against which to use the tax benefit of the capital loss (which is limited to five years), when we perform the contract, we will recognize more income and pay higher taxes for tax purposes than we will for book purposes. This tax relationship does not occur with respect to trusts for which the customer is the grantor, because all of their earnings are service revenue and thus ordinary income to us, and we do not recognize the revenue for either tax or book purposes until the underlying contract is performed. As of October 31, 2010, we have approximately $96.4 million remaining in unrealized losses in trusts for which we are the grantor; hypothetically, if all of these losses were realized at once, this would have resulted in an additional valuation allowance of approximately $38.6 million, assuming a projected tax rate of 40 percent. We currently have only a limited amount of embedded capital gains in our trusts. Also, we have utilized all previous capital gains recorded in tax year 2008 and prior tax years to offset capital losses carried forward from earlier years. Accordingly, if we experience additional realized losses in these trusts and do not have or expect to have future capital gains available (within or outside the trusts) to offset these losses, we would record additional valuation allowances and related reductions of net income. Earnings in cemetery perpetual care trusts may be reduced by declines in stock and bond prices and will be reduced by declines in interest and dividend rates, resulting in lower current and potentially future revenues and cash flows. In addition, we may be required to fund realized net capital losses in these trusts, which would have a negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. Pursuant to cemetery perpetual care contracts and laws, a portion, generally 10 percent to 15 percent, of the proceeds from cemetery property sales is deposited into perpetual care trusts. The income from these trusts, which have been established in most jurisdictions in which we operate cemeteries, is used for maintenance of those cemeteries, but principal must generally be held by the trust in perpetuity. The statutory provisions that create and regulate these trusts differ from state to state, as do the regulatory interpretations of the provisions. The trusts are reviewed regularly by the respective state regulatory authorities. We currently recognize all dividend and interest income earned and, in states where it is permitted, realized net capital gains generated by cemetery perpetual care trusts. We are currently utilizing some of the cash that could be withdrawn from the trusts to satisfy our funding obligation resulting from previously realized capital losses, which is discussed below. The remaining cash withdrawn is used to defray the costs of cemetery maintenance. Therefore, declines in these eligible distributable earnings in cemetery perpetual care trusts would cause a decline in cash flows. Likewise, sustained declines in these earnings would reduce future revenues and cash flows. As a result, we would need to devote more of our cash flow from other sources to continue to maintain our cemeteries at the same level. For fiscal 2010, earnings in these trusts contributed $7.4 million to cemetery revenue, which includes $2.1 million in capital gains. Unless current market conditions improve substantially, we expect to report earnings from the trusts in the future consistent with fiscal year 2010 which is lower than we have historically earned. In our cemetery perpetual care trusts, at October 31, 2010, the fair market value of our investments of $230.4 million was $41.0 million lower than our cost basis of $271.4 million. If we realize losses in our cemetery 12 Table of Contents perpetual care trusts and the fair market value of the trust assets is less than the aggregate amounts required to be contributed to the trust, some states may require us to make cash deposits to the trust to cover the net realized loss or may require us to stop withdrawing earnings until future earnings cover the net realized loss. In those states where we have withdrawn realized net capital gains in the past, regulators may seek replenishment of the realized net capital losses either by requiring a cash deposit to the trust or by prohibiting or restricting withdrawals of future earnings until they cover the loss. As of October 31, 2010, $13.3 million was recorded for the estimated probable funding obligation. As of October 31, 2010, we had net unrealized losses of $36.4 million in the trusts in these states. Because some of these trusts currently have assets with a fair market value less than the aggregate amounts required to be contributed to the trust, any additional realized net capital losses in these trusts may result in a corresponding funding liability and increase in cemetery costs. In those states where realized net capital gains have not been withdrawn, due to the different laws and our practices in those states, we do not believe that we will be required to replenish the realized net capital loss, and have not recorded a funding obligation; however, it is possible that regulators may disagree with our conclusion, and future funding obligations may exist. As of October 31, 2010, the realized net capital loss in these trusts was $2.5 million, and the unrealized loss was $4.6 million. Our distributions from cemetery perpetual care trusts include net realized capital gains on investment sales in states where permitted. If regulations in these states are changed to no longer permit withdrawal of realized capital gains, our cemetery perpetual care trust eligible distributable earnings may be reduced in the future, which would reduce our earnings and cash flows. In states where permitted, we withdraw and recognize as revenue net realized capital gains on investment sales in cemetery perpetual care trusts. During fiscal year 2010, we recognized and withdrew $2.1 million of net realized capital gains in cemetery perpetual care trusts. Currently, our portfolio mix in these states is more heavily weighted to investments that potentially generate capital gains, such as equities. In states where we do not withdraw capital gains, our portfolio mix is more heavily weighted to fixed income type securities. We are currently transitioning all cemetery perpetual care trusts to a more diversified asset allocation that emphasizes higher levels of current income while preserving capital. If states where capital gains are currently permitted to be withdrawn make changes in legislation or regulations to not allow capital gains to be withdrawn, our future revenues and cash flow may be reduced from historical levels until we are able to replace some or all of the investments that potentially generate capital gains with ones that generate more ordinary income such as fixed income securities. Given current economic conditions and market values, we may not be able to make that shift quickly without triggering capital losses that could require additional funding obligations. Reduced market values of preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trusts and cemetery perpetual care trusts will also reduce our trust management fees. The fees that our subsidiary, ITI, collects for managing the trusts are based on the fair market value of the trusts as determined by quoted market prices. Thus as market values decline, the earnings ITI collects and the cash we withdraw for managing the trusts is also reduced. To the extent market values do not improve, we will earn less in ITI fees than we have historically earned. During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, ITI trust management fees collected were approximately $9.4 million, $8.0 million and $10.0 million, respectively. Our trust portfolio is invested in various sectors, some of which may be more susceptible to additional adverse impact from the current economic environment. As of October 31, 2010, approximately 20 percent of our preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trust portfolios and 30 percent of our cemetery perpetual care trust portfolios are invested in the financials sector. For the preneed funeral and cemetery merchandise and services trust portfolio financial sector investments, approximately 57 percent was invested in preferred stock, 29 percent in fixed-income securities and 14 percent in common stock investments. For the cemetery perpetual care trust portfolio financial sector investments, approximately 68 percent was invested in preferred stock, 26 percent in fixed-income securities and six percent in common stock investments. The current economic environment may result in greater declines to the fair market value of our investments in this and other sectors as compared to the performance of our overall trust portfolio 13 Table of Contents and/or market benchmarks, including the S&P 500 Index. Each sector has particular risks associated with it, and depending on our asset allocation, sector mix, company-specific information and future economic events, our portfolio could be at risk for further decline. For additional information, see the section titled “Preneed-Backlog, Trust Portfolio and Cash Impact of Sales” included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7. A weakened economy could decrease preneed sales. A reduction in discretionary spending could also decrease amounts at-need customers are willing to pay, and could cause third-party insurance providers that fund our insurance-funded preneed funeral contracts to experience financial difficulties. A weakened economy that causes customers to reduce discretionary spending could cause, and we believe has caused, a decline in preneed sales, and could also decrease the amounts at-need customers are willing to pay. Declines in preneed cemetery property sales and average revenue per at-need event would reduce current revenue. Declines in preneed funeral and cemetery service and merchandise sales would reduce our backlog and could reduce our future revenues and market share. A weakened economy could also impact our customers’ ability to pay, causing increased delinquencies, increased bad debt and decreased finance charge revenue which would reduce future earnings and cash flow. A weakened economy could also increase costs related to sales force turnover and commissions we are unable to recoup as contract cancellation rates increase. If a contract is cancelled before collecting a specified amount, the related commission is charged back to the sales counselor. If the sales counselor is no longer employed by us when the contract is cancelled, we are often unable to recoup that commission. Some of the preneed funeral contracts we sell are funded by life insurance or annuity contracts issued by third-party insurers. The net amount of these contracts that have not been fulfilled as of October 31, 2010 was $530.4 million. These contracts are not reflected in our consolidated balance sheet, but we include them when we discuss our anticipated “backlog” or anticipated future revenue from preneed funeral sales. Approximately 60 percent of these contracts have been funded by Forethought Life Insurance Company. If Forethought or other insurance companies that have issued policies to our customers experience financial difficulties, our potential future revenue associated with these contracts, and commissions we would receive from selling these types of contracts in the future, could be at risk. For a discussion of our revenue recognition policies for insurance-funded preneed funeral contracts, see Note 2(i) to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Continued economic weakness and financial and stock market declines could reduce future potential earnings and cash flows and could result in future goodwill impairments. As of October 31, 2010, goodwill amounted to $247.0 million, consisting of $198.3 million in the funeral segment and $48.7 million in the cemetery segment. Our cemetery segment tends to be more sensitive to goodwill impairments because it has a heavier reliance on preneed sales which are impacted by changes in consumer sentiment and customer discretionary income. If current economic conditions worsen causing decreased revenues and increased costs or if the current economic conditions result in additional companies in which the trust portfolio is invested in filing for bankruptcy, we may have a triggering event which could result in further goodwill impairments. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt depends on our ability to generate cash flow. We have a senior secured revolving credit facility due in 2012, on which no amounts were drawn as of October 31, 2010, and $331.5 million in fixed-rate long-term debt becoming due in 2013 through 2016. We believe that our current level of cash on hand, projected cash flows from operations and available capacity under our senior secured revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our debt service and other cash requirements for the foreseeable future, although we will need to refinance the senior secured revolving credit facility and other long-term debt as they become due. Our ability to generate cash, to a significant extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. In addition, our ability to borrow funds in the future to make payments on our debt will depend on our meeting the financial covenants in our debt 14 Table of Contents agreements. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior secured revolving credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund other liquidity needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our debt on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our same-store funeral call volumes have not increased for a number of years due to many factors, such as the number of deaths and competition in our markets, our ability to identify changing consumer preferences and various other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our same-store funeral call volumes have not increased for a number of years due to many factors described elsewhere in this report, including the number of deaths and intense competition in our markets, and our ability to identify changing consumer preferences. From fiscal years 2006 to 2010, we experienced same-store funeral call volume changes of (0.2) percent, (2.2) percent, 0 percent, (5.9) percent and (2.1) percent, respectively. We can give no assurance that we will be able to increase same-store funeral call volumes over the long term. Declines in same-store funeral calls can adversely affect revenues and profits if not offset by increases in average revenue per call or alternative sources of revenue. Price competition could reduce market share or cause us to reduce prices to retain or recapture market share, either of which could reduce revenues and margins. Our funeral home and cemetery operations generally face intense competition in local markets that typically are served by numerous funeral homes and cemetery firms. We have historically experienced price competition primarily from independent funeral home and cemetery operators, and from monument dealers, casket retailers, low-cost funeral providers and other non-traditional providers of services or products including, in recent years, internet providers. From time to time, this price competition has caused us to lose market share in some markets. In other markets, we have had to reduce prices, thereby reducing profit margins in order to retain or recapture market share. Increased price competition in the future could further reduce revenues, profit margins and backlog and potentially impact our annual goodwill impairment analysis. Discount retailers sell caskets at prices substantially lower than prices we offer. Consumers also can now buy caskets in funeral supply stores and directly from manufacturers, as well as over the Internet. Competition from these sources could reduce our casket sales, which could adversely affect funeral revenues and margins. Increased advertising and better marketing by competitors, as well as increased offering of products or services over the Internet, could cause us to lose market share and revenues or cause us to incur increased costs or to decrease prices in order to retain or recapture market share. In recent years, the marketing of preneed funeral services through television, radio and print advertising, direct mailings and personal sales calls has increased. Extensive advertising or effective marketing by competitors in local markets could cause us to lose market share and revenues or cause us to incur increased marketing costs. In addition, competitors may change the types or mix of products or services offered. These changes may attract customers, causing us to lose market share and revenue or to incur costs necessary to respond to competition by varying the types or mix of products or services offered by us. Also, increased use of the Internet by customers to research and/or purchase products and services could cause us to lose market share to competitors offering to sell products or services over the Internet. If we are not able to respond effectively to changing consumer preferences, our market share, revenues and profitability could decrease. Future market share, revenues and profits will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences. We may not correctly anticipate or identify trends in consumer preferences, or we may identify them later than our competitors do. In addition, any strategies we may implement to address these trends may prove incorrect or ineffective. Increased preneed sales may have a negative impact on current cash flow and earnings. 15 Table of Contents Preneed sales of cemetery property and funeral and cemetery products and services, which are generally paid on an installment basis, are generally cash flow negative initially, primarily due to the commissions and other costs to acquire the sale and the fact that a portion of the sales proceeds is required to be placed into trusts or escrow accounts. We will continue to invest a significant portion of cash flow in preneed acquisition costs, which reduces cash flow available for other activities, and, to the extent preneed activities are increased, cash flow would be further reduced, and our ability to service debt could be adversely affected. Increased costs, including potential increased health care costs, may have a negative impact on earnings and cash flows. We may not be successful in maintaining our margins and may incur additional costs. For example, in the past, we have experienced increased property and casualty insurance costs primarily as a result of hurricanes and natural disasters. On March 23, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law, and one week later, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 became effective, together enacting comprehensive health care reform in the United States. The legislation is likely to increase our health care costs. Many provisions of the law that could impact our business will not become effective until 2014, or later, and require implementation through regulations that have not yet been promulgated. Accordingly, the costs and other effects of the legislation, which may include the cost of compliance and potentially increased costs of providing for medical insurance for our employees, cannot be determined with certainty at this time. We incurred additional costs in fiscal year 2010 in conjunction with improving our business systems. Some of the costs impacting our business are largely beyond our control. To the extent that we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, they will have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flows. Our business is subject to the risk of losses due to hurricanes and other natural disasters. Our Company is headquartered in the New Orleans metropolitan area, and approximately 75 of our funeral homes and 45 of our cemeteries, along with our mausoleum construction and sales business, ACME Mausoleum, are located near the Gulf Coast in southern Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida, along the eastern coasts of Florida, and North and South Carolina and in Puerto Rico. These areas are periodically threatened by hurricanes, which can damage our properties, interrupt our business and disrupt the lives of our customers and employees. We are also at risk for tornadoes at our locations in the midwestern United States and for earthquakes at our locations along the west coast of the United States. In fiscal year 2005, our business was adversely affected by Hurricanes Katrina, Wilma and Rita. In fiscal year 2008, Hurricane Ike impacted our Houston operations. Our insurance may not protect us from all material losses or expenses incurred in connection with a natural disaster. We have an estimate included in our deferred revenue liability of approximately $3 million, and we may become aware of new information that would require us to increase that estimated liability. From time to time, unidentified contracts are presented to us primarily relating to contracts sold prior to the time we acquired certain businesses. In addition, from time to time, we have identified in our backlog, certain contracts in which services or merchandise have already been delivered. Using historical trends, and statistical analyses, we have recorded an estimated liability for these items of approximately $3 million as of October 31, 2010. To the extent we are made aware of contracts that exceed the estimated liability recorded, or cause us to conclude that we should increase the estimated liability recorded, we would have to record a charge to earnings for the estimated cost to deliver the products and services. Our Chairman may have a significant and disproportionate influence on the outcome of election of directors and other matters presented for a vote of shareholders and this control may be exercised in a manner that may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. As of October 31, 2010, our Chairman, Frank B. Stewart, Jr., held 7,200,236 shares (or approximately 8.1 percent) of our outstanding Class A common stock and all of the 3,555,020 outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. There is no established public trading market for our Class B common stock. Because each share of Class B common stock is entitled to 10 votes on all matters presented for a vote by our shareholders, Mr. Stewart controls approximately 34 percent of our total voting power, while holding approximately 12 percent of our 16 Table of Contents outstanding equity. Accordingly, Mr. Stewart may have a significant and disproportionate influence over the election of directors and other matters requiring the affirmative vote of our shareholders and this control may be exercised in a manner that may conflict with the interest of other shareholders. Additionally, because Louisiana law and our articles of incorporation require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the voting power present to approve certain major transactions such as mergers and any amendments to our articles of incorporation, Mr. Stewart may have the ability to prevent the consummation of such actions, even if they are recommended by our Board of Directors and favored by a substantial majority of our shareholders. We may be unable to repurchase our 6.25 percent senior notes and our senior convertible notes when required by the holders, or to pay the cash portion of the conversion value upon conversion of our senior convertible notes. In addition, we are subject to counterparty risk on the call options relating to our senior convertible notes. Upon a change of control of our company as defined in the relevant indenture, holders of our 6.25 percent senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or any part of their notes for cash at a price equal to 101 percent of the principal amount of the notes repurchased, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, upon fundamental change events specified in the relevant indenture, holders of our senior convertible notes may require us to purchase for cash all or a portion of their notes at a price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. Also, upon conversion of our senior convertible notes, we will be required to deliver to the holders a cash payment equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the notes being converted or the conversion value of the notes. As a result, we may be required to pay significant amounts of cash to holders of the senior convertible notes upon conversion. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient financial resources to make these payments when due. Any inability to make these payments would constitute an event of default under the indentures governing these notes and would also cause cross-defaults under the terms of our other debt agreements. Concurrently with the sale of our senior convertible notes, we purchased call options with respect to our Class A common stock from Bank of America/Merrill Lynch International and sold warrants to Bank of America/Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc. The counterparties’ obligations to us under the call options and warrants are guaranteed by Bank of America/Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. By simultaneously purchasing the call options and selling the warrants, we have effectively increased the conversion premium on the senior convertible notes to 55-65 percent above the market price of the Class A common stock at the time of the offering. The call options are expected to offset our exposure to dilution from conversion of the senior convertible notes because any shares we would be obligated to deliver to holders upon conversion would be delivered to us by the counterparty to the call options. This obligation is dependent upon the financial viability of the counterparty and guarantor. With the uncertainty in the United States financial markets, there are risks that the counterparty and guarantor may not remain financially viable or may seek bankruptcy protection. If the counterparty and guarantor are relieved of or cannot perform this obligation, then at the time of conversion, we may be required to issue additional shares based upon the initial conversion price of the notes and cause further dilution to our shareholders. The call options we purchased and the warrants we sold contemporaneously with the sale of our senior convertible notes may affect the trading price of our Class A common stock and the value of the senior convertible notes. The counterparties to the call options we purchased and the warrants we sold may engage in hedging activities and modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to the conversion or maturity of our senior convertible notes, and particularly around the time of any conversion of the notes. These hedging activities may include purchasing and selling shares of our Class A common stock, or other of our securities, or other instruments, including over-the-counter derivative instruments. The effect, if any, of these activities on the trading price of our Class A common stock or the senior convertible notes will depend in part on market conditions at the time and cannot be reasonably predicted at this time. Any of these activities could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock and the value of the senior convertible notes. For additional information about the call options we purchased and the warrants we sold, see Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Exercise of the outstanding warrants could dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. 17 Table of Contents Concurrently with the sale of our senior convertible notes, we sold warrants expiring in 2014 to purchase approximately 11.3 million shares of Class A common stock at $12.93 per share and warrants expiring in 2016 to purchase approximately 11.3 million shares of Class A common stock at $13.76 per share. The warrants expiring in 2014 may not be exercised prior to the maturity of the senior convertible notes due in 2014, and the warrants expiring in 2016 may not be exercised prior to the maturity of the senior convertible notes due in 2016. The warrants may be settled in cash at our election. Exercise of the warrants could dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. In connection with the fiscal year 2009 and 2010 repurchases of our senior convertible notes, the number of shares of Class A common stock subject to the warrants was reduced to 6.9 million related to the senior convertible notes due in 2014 and 3.6 million related to the senior convertible notes due in 2016. For additional information, see Notes 15 and 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Increases in interest rates would increase interest costs on any variable-rate long-term debt and could have a material adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. We have no variable-rate long-term debt agreements besides our senior secured revolving credit facility. Although we have no amounts currently drawn under the credit facility, any amounts borrowed in the future are subject to variable interest rates. Any significant increase in interest rates could increase our interest costs on our variable-rate long-term debt or indebtedness incurred in the future, which could decrease our net income and earnings per share materially. Our ability to maintain compliance with our covenants under our senior secured revolving credit facility and 6.25 percent senior notes is dependent upon many factors. Covenant restrictions may also limit our ability to operate our business. Our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the 6.25 percent senior notes contain, among other things, covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries’ activities. Our senior secured revolving credit facility limits, among other things, our and the guarantors’ ability to: borrow money; pay dividends or distributions; purchase or redeem stock; make investments; engage in transactions with affiliates; engage in sale and leaseback transactions; consummate specified asset sales; effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and create liens on our assets. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility contains specific limits on capital expenditures. Furthermore, our senior secured revolving credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy periodic financial condition tests. The indenture governing the 6.25 percent senior notes restricts our and the guarantors’ ability to create liens on assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions and merge or consolidate with other companies. Our and our subsidiaries’ future indebtedness may contain similar or even more restrictive covenants. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 for additional information on our debt covenants. These covenants may require that we take action to reduce our debt or to act in a manner contrary to our business objectives. In addition, events beyond our control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect our ability to satisfy these covenants. We might not meet those covenants, and the lenders might not waive any failure to meet those covenants. A breach of any of those covenants could result in a default under such indebtedness. If an event of default under our senior secured credit facility occurs, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. Any such declaration would also result in an event of default under the indenture governing the 6.25 percent senior notes. For additional information, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” included in Item 7. The payment of dividends on our common stock in the future is subject to uncertainties. The declaration of dividends on our common stock in the future is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors each quarter after its review of our financial performance. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted under our senior secured revolving credit facility. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. We may not be able to consummate significant acquisitions of or investments in death care or related businesses successfully. Although we have not made any significant acquisitions in recent years, we may in the future. Also, our 18 Table of Contents “New Invention” initiative calls for us to seek to generate new tangential growth opportunities not tied to the growth of our base business. Any such acquisitions and investments have risks. We may fail to identify suitable candidates, and even if we do, we may not be able to successfully complete the transaction or integrate the new business into our existing business. We may not be able to find businesses for sale at prices we are willing to pay. Acquisition activity, if any, will also depend on our ability to enter new markets. Due in part to our lack of experience operating or investing in new areas and to the presence of competitors who have been in certain markets longer than we have, such acquisitions or investments may be more difficult or expensive than we anticipate. The application of generally accepted accounting principles to our business is complex, and we have had significant changes in the application of generally accepted accounting principles to our business. No assurances can be given that we will not face similar issues in the future. Our industry is unusual because we often sell products and services many years prior to the time they are required to be delivered, and we are required by varying state laws to hold customer funds related to these sales in trust until the products and services are ultimately delivered. The accounting for these unusual features is complex, and in prior years there have been periodic changes in the application of generally accepted accounting principles to our business. Some of these changes have made it difficult to compare results from one period to the next. Such changes have also increased our administrative costs. We can give no assurances that we will not face similar issues in the future. Risks Related to the Death Care Industry Declines in the number of deaths in our markets can cause a decrease in revenues. Changes in the number of deaths are not predictable from market to market or over the short term, and reliable statistics on deaths in particular markets can be difficult to obtain. Declines in the number of deaths could cause at-need sales of funeral and cemetery services, property and merchandise to decline and could cause a decline in the number of preneed sales being delivered, both of which could decrease revenues. Although the United States Bureau of the Census estimates that the number of deaths in the United States will increase by approximately 1 percent per year from 2008 to 2020, longer life spans could reduce the rate of deaths. Changes in the number of deaths can vary among local markets and from quarter to quarter, and variations in the number of deaths in our markets or from quarter to quarter are not predictable. However, generally the number of deaths fluctuates with the seasons with more deaths occurring during the winter months primarily resulting from pneumonia and influenza. These variations can cause revenues to fluctuate. Our comparisons of the change in the number of families served to the change in the number of deaths reported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) from time to time may not necessarily be meaningful. The CDC receives weekly mortality reports from 122 cities and metropolitan areas in the United States within two to three weeks from the date of death and reports the total number of deaths occurring in these areas each week based on the reports received from state health departments. The comparability of our funeral calls to the CDC data is limited, as reports from the state health departments are often delayed, and the 122 cities reporting to the CDC are not necessarily comparable with the markets in which we operate. We have experienced an increase in the proportion of lower-priced, non-traditional funeral services and direct cremations, which we believe is part of the continuing national trend toward increased cremation. Our traditional cemetery and funeral service operations face competition from the increasing number of cremations in the United States. Industry studies indicate that the percentage of cremations has steadily increased and that cremations will represent approximately 46 percent of deaths in the United States by the year 2015, compared to 36 percent in 2008. In fiscal years 2008, 2009 and 2010, 40 percent, 41 percent and 42 percent, respectively, of the funeral services we performed in our operations were cremations, and 56 percent, 56 percent and 64 percent of those were direct cremations, respectively. A full service cremation, which includes a funeral service, merchandise and memorialization of the remains in a mausoleum or columbarium niche or a burial of the remains, can result in funeral and cemetery revenue and profit margins similar to those of traditional funeral services and burials, although the cemetery property sale revenue would generally be lower. In contrast, a basic or direct cremation, with no funeral service or casket and no memorialization of the remains, produces no revenues for 19 Table of Contents cemetery operations and lower revenues and profit margins for funeral operations when delivered through a traditional funeral home. During fiscal years 2007 through 2010, we experienced a reduction in the proportion of full service traditional funeral services and cremations and an increase in the proportion of lower-priced, non-traditional funeral services and direct cremations. A continuation of this trend would adversely affect the revenues and gross profits of our funeral and cemetery businesses. To address this trend, we have been intensifying our efforts to market full service cremations and have begun a program of enhancing our cremation memorialization offerings. In addition, the increasing trend towards cremations in the United States could cause us to lose market share to firms specializing in cremations. Because the funeral and cemetery businesses are high fixed-cost businesses, positive or negative changes in revenue can have a disproportionately large effect on cash flow and profits. Funeral homes and cemetery businesses must incur many of the costs of operating and maintaining facilities, land and equipment regardless of the level of sales in any given period. For example, we must pay salaries, utilities, property taxes and maintenance costs on funeral homes and maintain the grounds of cemeteries regardless of the number of funeral services or interments performed. Because we cannot decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when we experience declines in sales, declines in sales can cause margins, profits and cash flow to decline at a greater rate than the decline in revenues. Changes or increases in, or failure to comply with, regulations applicable to our business could increase costs or decrease cash flows. The death care industry is subject to extensive regulation and licensing requirements under federal, state and local laws. For example, the funeral home industry is regulated by the FTC, which requires funeral homes to take actions designed to protect consumers. State laws impose licensing requirements and regulate preneed sales including our preneed trust activities. Embalming facilities are subject to stringent environmental and health regulations. Compliance with these regulations is burdensome, and we are always at risk of not complying with the regulations. In addition, from time to time, governments and agencies propose to amend or add regulations, which could increase costs or decrease cash flows. For example, federal, state, Puerto Rican and other regulatory agencies have considered and may enact additional legislation or regulations that could affect the death care industry. Several jurisdictions and regulatory agencies have considered or are considering regulations that could require more liberal refund and cancellation policies for preneed sales of products and services, limit or eliminate our ability to use surety bonding, impose or increase trust requirements and prohibit the common ownership of funeral homes and cemeteries in the same market. If adopted by the regulatory authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate, these and other possible proposals could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition, our results of operations, our cash flows and our future prospects. On September 29, 2009, Representative Bobby L. Rush (D.-Ill.) introduced H.R. 3655 to direct the FTC to draft regulations to extend the Funeral Rule to cemeteries, crematories and sellers of caskets and other funeral merchandise and to require certain disclosures with respect to preneed sales of funeral services or funeral goods. The bill was reported favorably by the Energy and Commerce Committee on July 21, 2010, and an estimate of its cost was submitted by the Congressional Budget Office on September 8, 2010. The full House of Representatives has not voted on this bill at this time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Table of Contents 