D. Risk Factors An investment in Taseko’s common shares is highly speculative and subject to a number of risks. Only those persons who can bear the risk of the entire loss of their investment should participate. An investor should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information that Taseko files with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with Canadian securities regulators before investing in its common shares. The risks described below are not the only ones faced. Additional risks that Taseko is unaware of or that Taseko currently believes are immaterial may become important factors that affect Taseko’s business and financial condition. If any of the following risks occur, or if others occur, Taseko’s business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. The principal risks affecting Taseko and the value of Taseko’s common shares are: Metals Prices Taseko’s Gibraltar mine is a “swing producer” meaning it is a mine which is economic to operate only when copper prices are relatively high. This is because by world standards, Gibraltar mines low grade ore and hence operations become uneconomic when copper prices decline. Mineralization - 13 - referred to herein as “reserves” at Gibraltar may lose that status if copper prices return to near historical lows (sub US$1.25/lb copper). Low metals prices will also adversely impact the likelihood that Prosperity or Harmony will achieve commercial mine development. Limited Reserves The Company's ability to sustain or increase its current levels of copper and molybdenum production is dependent upon the successful identification of additional reserves at the Gibraltar mine. If the Company is unable to develop new ore bodies, it will not be able to sustain present production levels beyond the current planned life of the Gibraltar mine. Reduced production could have a material adverse impact on future years’ cash flows, results of operations and financial condition of the Company. Taseko’s Prosperity and Harmony Properties Contain No Known Reserves of Ore Although there are known bodies of mineralization on the Prosperity and Harmony Properties, there are currently no known reserves or body of commercially viable ore. Additional work is required before Taseko can ascertain if any mineralization may be economic. Exploration for minerals is a speculative venture necessarily involving substantial risk. If the expenditures Taseko makes on these properties do not result in discoveries of commercial quantities of ore, the value of exploration and acquisition expenditures will be totally lost and the value of Taseko stock may be negatively impacted. Exchange Rate Risk The Company is subject to currency exchange rate risk. The prices of copper and molybdenum oxide are denominated in United States dollars and, accordingly, the Company’s revenues will be received in United States dollars. The Company’s expenses are almost entirely paid for in Canadian dollars, which has recently shown strength against the United States dollar. The further strengthening in the Canadian dollar, if it continues, will negatively impact the profitability of the Company’s mining operations. Uncertain Project Realization Values Taseko capitalizes acquisition costs incurred in connection with its projects. Due to the extended depressed price conditions in the metals markets at the time, and in accordance with the its accounting policy, the Company wrote down the acquisition costs of each of the Prosperity and Gibraltar projects to $1,000 during fiscal 2001. As a result of inactivity, the Company wrote down the Harmony Project to $1,000 in fiscal 2004. General Mining Risks Mining is an inherently risky business with large capital expenditures and cyclical metals markets. Factors beyond the control of Taseko will affect the marketability of any substances discovered and mined. The mining industry in general is intensely competitive and there is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered at Prosperity and Harmony, a profitable market will exist for the sale of minerals produced by Taseko. Factors beyond the control of Taseko may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. Metal prices, in particular copper, molybdenum and gold prices, have fluctuated widely in recent years. Prices are determined in international markets over which the Company has no influence. The operations of Taseko may require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurances that Taseko will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration, development and operations at its projects. Environmental concerns about mining in general are also a factor that may affect Taseko. Taseko also competes with many companies possessing far greater financial resources and technical facilities than itself for the acquisition of mineral concessions, claims, leases and other mineral interests, as well as for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees. Additional mining risks include the following: reserves may not be as estimated, adverse ground conditions, adverse weather conditions, potential labor problems, and availability and cost of equipment and supplies. - 14 - Taseko’s Share Price is Volatile The market price of a publicly traded stock, especially a resource issuer like Taseko, is affected by many variables not directly related to the exploration results of Taseko, including the market for resource stocks, the strength of the economy generally, the availability and attractiveness of alternative investments, and the breadth of the public market for the stock. The effect of these and other factors on the market price of the common shares on the TSX and the American Stock Exchange suggests Taseko’s shares will continue to be volatile. Taseko shares have ranged between approximately $0.36 and $20.00 in the last 15 years. Environmental Considerations The $38.6 million (in 2006 dollars) in existing reclamation liability related to the Gibraltar mine, and potential acid rock drainage issues at the Harmony and Prosperity projects, if developed, are the main environmental concerns relating to Taseko. Mining always entails risk of spills, pollution, reclamation, and other liabilities and obligations respecting which Taseko, like other mining companies, may be adversely affected. If these challenges are not properly assessed or if rules change that increase responsibility for such matters, Taseko could be materially adversely affected. Labour Negotiations A significant portion of the Company's employees are unionized. In the event that, from time to time, labour agreements are not concluded with these employees, labour actions could occur, including strikes and/or lockouts. Consequently this could cause disruptions in operations. Significant Potential Equity Dilution At March 30, 2007, Taseko had 128,658,125 common shares and 6,111,884 share purchase options outstanding. The resale of outstanding shares from the exercise of dilutive securities could have a depressing effect on the market for Taseko’s shares. At March 30, 2007, dilutive securities represented approximately 9.5% of Taseko’s currently issued shares. Certain of these dilutive securities are exercisable at prices below current market price and, accordingly, will result in dilution to existing shareholders if exercised. Further, there is a risk of dilution to existing shareholders as a result of the potential conversion of (a) the Boliden convertible debentures (currently 3,476,483 potential shares), (b) the Gibraltar tracking preferred shares, and (c) the convertible bonds held by qualified institutional buyers (currently 8,955,244 potential shares). - 15 - ITEM 