ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We have completed a number of acquisitions and expect to complete additional acquisitions in the future. There are numerous risks associated with acquisitions and we may not achieve the expected benefit of any of our acquisitions We acquired intellectual property assets and technology patents from Pemstar Pacific Consultants during 2002; we acquired the assets of Neometrics Inc. and affiliated entities during 2003; and we acquired Fischer-Zoth in 2004. In January 2006 we completed the acquisition of Bio-logic. In September and October 2006 we completed the acquisitions Deltamed and Olympic Medical, and certain assets from Nascor. We expect to continue to pursue opportunities to acquire other businesses in future periods. The acquisitions that we have completed may not result in improved operating results for us, or in our achieving a financial condition superior to that which we would have achieved had we not completed them. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by costs associated to our acquisitions, including one-time charges associated with restructurings or in-process research and development assets. Our acquisitions could fail to produce the benefits that we anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. In addition, some of the assumptions that we have relied upon, such as achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. In this event, one or more of the acquisitions could result in reduced earnings of Natus as compared to the earnings that would have been achieved by Natus if the acquisition had not occurred. If we fail to successfully manage the combined operations of Natus and the businesses we have acquired, we may not realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. Our corporate headquarters are located in San Carlos, 17 Table of Contents California. Bio-logic’s primary offices are located in Illinois, Olympic Medical’s operations are in Washington, Neometrics’ operations are located in New York, Deltamed’s operations are in France, and Fischer-Zoth’s operations are in Germany. The geographical distance between our various facilities may further adversely affect our ability to manage these operations. If we fail to manage these disparate operations effectively, our results of operations could be harmed, employee morale could decline, key employees could leave, and customers could cancel existing orders or choose not to place new ones. In addition, we may not achieve the synergies or other benefits of the acquisition that we anticipate. We may encounter the following difficulties, costs, and delays involved in integrating and managing these operations, and the operations of companies we may acquire: • Failure to realize expected synergies; • Inability to effectively integrate acquired products into our business; • Failure to successfully manage relationships with customers and other important business partners; • Failure of customers to continue using the products and services of the combined company; • Failure to successfully develop the acquired technology into the desired products or enhancements; • Challenges encountered in managing larger, more geographically dispersed operations; • The loss of key employees; • Assumption of unknown liabilities; • Failure to understand and compete effectively in markets and with products or technologies with which we have limited previous experience; • Impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets, including goodwill, generated as a result of the acquisition; • Decreased liquidity, restrictive bank covenants, and incremental financing costs associated with debt we may incur to complete future acquisitions; and • Diversion of the attention of management from other ongoing business concerns. Our acquisitions of products, technology assets, or businesses may have a negative impact on our business if we fail to achieve the anticipated financial, strategic, and other benefits of acquisitions or investments, and our operating results may suffer because of this. Future changes in technology or market conditions could result in adjustments to our recorded asset balance for intangible assets, including goodwill, resulting in additional charges that could significantly impact our operating results At December 31, 2006, we had significant intangible assets, including goodwill and other acquired intangible assets. The determination of related estimated useful lives and whether these assets are impaired involves significant judgments. Our ability to accurately predict future cash flows related to these intangible assets might be hindered by events over which we have no control. Due to the highly competitive nature of the medical device industry, new technologies could impair the value of our intangible assets if they create market conditions that adversely affect the competitiveness of our products. Any future determination that these assets are carried at greater than their fair value could result in additional charges, which could significantly impact our operating results. Our acquisitions have included in-process research and development assets (“IPR&D assets”) for which we hope to generate future cash flows; our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to bring these assets to market Through our acquisitions of other businesses, we have acquired IPR&D assets from which we hope to generate future cash flows. There is inherent risk in bringing these IPR&D assets to market and we may be 18 Table of Contents unable to realize the full value we have assigned to them. We may be unable to complete the development of these IPR&D assets within a timely manner, or we may encounter technological difficulties that prevent us from completing their development. If we are unable to derive future revenue from our IPR&D assets, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We may not be able to preserve the value of our intellectual property because we may not be able to protect access to it or we may lose our intellectual property rights due to expiration of our licenses or patents If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights or if our intellectual property rights do not adequately cover the technology we employ, other medical device companies could sell products with features similar to ours, and this could reduce demand for our products. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, others may attempt to copy or otherwise improperly obtain and use our products or technology. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and expensive, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may be inadequate. Enforcing our intellectual property rights could be costly and time consuming and may divert our management’s attention and resources. Failing to enforce our intellectual property rights could also result in the loss of those rights. In the past, we have relied on sales of our newborn screening products for the majority of our revenue, and these products will continue to contribute to a substantial portion of our revenue; a decline in sales of these products could cause our revenue to fall We expect that the revenue from our newborn hearing screening products will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for at least the next year. Any factors adversely affecting the pricing of our newborn hearing screening devices and related supplies, or demand for our newborn hearing screening products, including physician acceptance or the selection of competing products, could cause our revenue to decline and our business to suffer. If health care providers are not adequately reimbursed for procedures conducted with our devices or supplies, or if reimbursement policies change adversely, we may not be successful marketing and selling new products or technologies Clinicians, hospitals, and government agencies are unlikely to purchase our products if clinicians are not adequately reimbursed for the procedures conducted with our devices or supplies. Unless a sufficient amount of conclusive, peer-reviewed clinical data about our products has been published, third-party payors, including insurance companies and government agencies, may refuse to provide reimbursement. Furthermore, even if reimbursement is provided, it may not be adequate to fully compensate the clinicians or hospitals. Some third-party payors may refuse adequate reimbursement unless the patient has demonstrable risk factors. If health care providers cannot obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for our products or the screenings conducted with our products, we may not achieve significant market acceptance of our products. Acceptance of our products in international markets will depend upon the availability of adequate reimbursement or funding within prevailing health care payment systems. Reimbursement, funding, and health care payment systems vary significantly by country. We may not obtain approvals for reimbursement in a timely manner or at all. Adverse changes in reimbursement policies in general could harm our business. We are unable to predict changes in the reimbursement methods used by third-party health care payors, particularly those in countries and regions outside the U.S. For example, some payors are moving toward a managed care system in which providers contract to provide comprehensive health care for a fixed cost per person. In a managed care system the cost of our products may not be incorporated into the overall payment for patient care or there may not be adequate reimbursement for our products separate from reimbursement for other procedures. 19 Table of Contents If we fail in our efforts to educate clinicians, government agency personnel, and third-party payors on the effectiveness of our products, we will not achieve future sales growth It is critical to the success of our sales efforts that we educate a sufficient number of clinicians, hospital administrators, and government agencies about our products and the costs and benefits of their use. The commercial success of our products depends upon clinician, government agency and other third-party payor confidence in the economic and clinical benefits of our products as well as their comfort with the efficacy, reliability, sensitivity and specificity of our products. We believe that clinicians will not use our products unless they determine, based on published peer-reviewed journal articles and experience, that our products provide an accurate and cost-effective alternative to other means of testing or treatment. Our customers may choose to use competitive products, which may be less expensive or may provide faster results than our devices. Clinicians are traditionally slow to adopt new products, testing practices and clinical treatments, partly because of perceived liability risks and the uncertainty of third-party reimbursement. If more clinicians, government agencies and hospital administrators do not adopt our products, we may not maintain profitability. Factors that may adversely affect the medical community’s acceptance of our products include: • Publication of clinical study results that demonstrate a lack of efficacy or cost-effectiveness of our products; • Changing governmental and physician group guidelines; • Performance, quality, price, and total cost of ownership of our products relative to other competitive products; • Our ability to maintain and enhance our existing relationships and to form new relationships with leading physicians, physician organizations, hospitals, state laboratory personnel, and third-party payors; • Changes in state and third-party payor reimbursement policies for our products; and • Repeal of laws requiring universal newborn hearing screening and metabolic screening. Increased sales through group purchasing organizations and sales to high volume purchasers may reduce our average selling prices, which would reduce our revenue and gross profits We have entered, and may in the future enter, into agreements with customers who purchase high volumes of our products. Our agreements with these customers may contain discounts from our normal selling prices and other special pricing considerations, which could cause our revenue and profits to decline. In addition, we have entered into agreements to sell our products to members of group purchasing organizations, or GPOs, which negotiate volume purchase prices for medical devices and supplies for member hospitals, group practices and other clinics. While we make sales directly to GPO members, the GPO members receive volume discounts from our normal selling price and may receive other special pricing considerations from us. Sales to members of all GPOs accounted for approximately 31%, 28%, and 46% of our total revenue during 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, and sales to members of one GPO, Novation LLC, accounted for approximately 12%, 15%, and 20% of our total revenue in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Other of our existing customers may be members of GPOs with which we do not have agreements. Our sales efforts through GPOs may conflict with our direct sales efforts to our existing customers. If we enter into agreements with new GPOs and some of our existing customers begin purchasing our products through those GPOs, our revenue and profits could decline. Demand for some of our products depends on the capital spending policies of our customers, and changes in these policies could harm our business A majority of customers for our products are hospitals, physician offices, and clinics. Many factors, including public policy spending provisions, available resources, and economic cycles have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities and therefore the amount that they can spend on our equipment products. If budget resources limit the capital spending of our customers, they will be unlikely to either purchase 20 Table of Contents any new equipment from us or upgrade to any of our newer equipment products. These factors can have a significant adverse effect on the demand for our products. Our markets are very competitive and in the United States we sell certain of our products in a mature market We face competition from other companies in all of our product lines. Our competitors range from small, privately-held companies to multinational corporations, and their product offerings vary in scope and breadth. We do not believe that any single competitor is dominant in any of our product lines. The markets for certain of our products in the U.S., including the newborn hearing screening and EEG monitoring markets, are mature and we are unlikely to see significant growth for such products in the U.S. In the U.S. we derive a significant portion of our revenue from the sale of disposable supplies that are used with our hearing screening devices. Because these disposable supply products can generate high margins, we expect that our products, particularly our hearing screening disposable supply products, could face increasing competition, including competitors offering lower prices, which could have an adverse affect on our revenue and margins. We believe that our primary competitive strengths relate to the functionality and reliability of our products, our recognized brands, and our developed sales channels. Our competitors may have certain competitive advantages, which include the ability to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products. Consequently, we may need to increase our efforts, and related expenses for research and development, marketing, and selling to maintain or improve our position. We expect recurring sales to our existing customers to generate a majority of our revenue in the future, and if our existing customers do not continue to purchase products from us, our revenue may decline. Our operating results may decline if we do not succeed in developing, acquiring and marketing additional products or improving our existing products We intend to develop and acquire additional products and technologies for the screening, detection, treatment, monitoring and tracking of common medical ailments. Developing and acquiring new products, and improving our existing products, to meet the needs of current and future customers requires significant investments in research and development. If we fail to successfully sell new products, update our existing products, or timely react to changes in technology, our operating results may decline as our existing products reach the end of their commercial life cycles. Our business could be harmed if our competitors establish cooperative relationships with large medical device vendors or rapidly acquire market share through industry consolidation Large medical device vendors may acquire or establish cooperative relationships with our current competitors. We expect that the medical device industry will continue to consolidate. New competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business and financial prospects. Our plan to expand our international operations will result in increased costs and is subject to numerous risks; if our efforts are not successful, this could harm our business We plan to expand our international sales and marketing efforts to increase sales of our products in foreign countries. During the past five years we significantly expanded our distributor network outside the U.S. We may not realize corresponding growth in revenue from growth in international unit sales, due to the lower average selling prices we receive on sales outside of the U.S. Even if we are able to successfully expand our international selling efforts, we cannot be certain that we will be able to create or increase demand for our products outside of the U.S. Our international operations are subject to other risks, which include: • Impact of possible recessions in economies outside the U.S.; 21 Table of Contents • Political and economic instability, including instability related to war and terrorist attacks in the U.S. and abroad; • Contractual provisions governed by foreign law, such as local law rights to sales commissions by terminated distributors; • Decreased health care spending by foreign governments that would reduce international demand for our produces; • A strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies that could make our products less competitive because most of our international sales are denominated in the U.S. dollar; • Greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • Difficulties of staffing and managing foreign operations; • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and potentially conflicting intellectual property rights of third parties under the laws of various foreign jurisdictions; • Difficulty in obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approval; and • Attitudes by clinicians, and cost reimbursement policies, towards use of disposable supplies that are potentially unfavorable to our business. If guidelines mandating universal newborn hearing screening do not continue to develop in foreign countries and governments do not mandate testing of all newborns as we anticipate, or if those guidelines have a long phase-in period, our revenue may be adversely impacted We estimate that approximately 95% of the children born in the U.S. are currently being tested for hearing impairment prior to discharge from the hospital. To date, there has been only limited adoption of newborn hearing screening prior to hospital discharge by foreign governments, and the phase-in period generally spans several years. The widespread adoption of guidelines depends, in part, on our ability to educate foreign government agencies, neonatologists, pediatricians, third-party payors, and hospital administrators about the benefits of universal newborn hearing screening as well as the use of our products to perform the screening and monitoring. Our revenue from our newborn hearing screening product lines may not grow if governments do not require universal newborn hearing screening prior to hospital discharge, or if physicians or hospitals are slow to comply with those guidelines, or if governments provide for a lengthy phase-in period for compliance. Because we rely on distributors or sub-distributors to sell our products in most of our markets outside of the U.S., our revenue could decline if our existing distributors reduce the volume of purchases from us, or if our relationship with any of these distributors is terminated We currently rely on our distributors or sub-distributors for a majority of our sales outside the U.S. Our reliance on international distributors has increased because of our decisions in 2004 and 2005 to close our Japanese and U.K. sales subsidiaries and sell through distributors in those countries, and because of our acquisition of Fischer-Zoth, which sells its products through distributors in Europe and Asia. We may also sell Deltamed products through distributors in countries outside of France and Germany. Some distributors also assist us with regulatory approvals and education of clinicians and government agencies. We intend to continue our efforts to increase our sales in Europe, Japan, and other developed countries. If we fail to sell our products through our international distributors, we would experience a decline in revenues unless we begin to sell our products directly in those markets. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract new international distributors to market our products effectively or provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service. Even if we are successful in selling our products through new distributors, the rate of growth of our revenue could be harmed if our existing distributors do not continue to sell a large dollar volume of our products. None of our existing distributors are obligated to continue selling our products. 22 Table of Contents We may be subject to foreign laws governing our relationships with our international distributors. These laws may require us to make payments to our distributors if we terminate our relationship for any reason, including for cause. Some countries require termination payments under local law or legislation that may supersede our contractual relationship with the distributor. These payments could be equal to a year or more of gross profit on sales of our products that the distributor would have earned. Any required payments would adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results may suffer because of our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and may require us to engage in foreign currency hedging Substantially all of our sales contracts to our U.S. based customers provide for payment in U.S. dollars. In addition, sales to most of our international distributors provide for payment in U.S. dollars. However, substantially all of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in the applicable foreign currency. To date we have not undertaken any foreign currency hedging transactions and, as a result, our future revenue and expenses may be subject to volatility due to exchange rate fluctuations that could result in foreign exchange gains and losses associated with the translation of assets denominated in foreign currencies. If we lose our relationship with any supplier of key product components or our relationship with a supplier deteriorates or key components are not available in sufficient quantities, our manufacturing could be delayed and our business could suffer We contract with third parties for the supply of some of the components used in our products and the production of our disposable products. Some of our suppliers are not obligated to continue to supply us. We have relatively few sources of supply for some of the components used in our products and in some cases we rely entirely on sole-source suppliers. In addition, the lead-time involved in the manufacturing of some of these components can be lengthy and unpredictable. For example, during 2002, we experienced delays on the part of a supplier to provide us with volume production of our Flexicoupler supplies, and in 2005, we relied on a single supplier of cables used in our ALGO hearing screening devices to help us complete a field replacement program of those cables. If these or other suppliers become unwilling or unable to supply us with components meeting our requirements, it might be difficult to establish additional or replacement suppliers in a timely manner, or at all. This would cause our product sales to be disrupted and our revenue and operating results to suffer. Replacement or alternative sources might not be readily obtainable due to regulatory requirements and other factors applicable to our manufacturing operations. Incorporation of components from a new supplier into our products may require a new or supplemental filing with applicable regulatory authorities and clearance or approval of the filing before we could resume product sales. This process may take a substantial period of time, and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory clearance or approval. This could create supply disruptions that would harm our product sales and operating results. We depend upon key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and, without additional employees, we cannot grow or maintain profitability Our products and technologies are complex, and we depend substantially on the continued service of our senior management team. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business and slow our product development process. Our future success also will depend, in part, on the continued service of our key management personnel, software engineers, and other research and development employees and our ability to identify, hire, and retain additional personnel, including customer service, marketing, and sales staff. Hiring research and development, engineering, sales, marketing and customer service personnel in our industry is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our product technologies. We may be unable to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to market and sell products depends upon receipt of domestic and foreign regulatory approval of our products and manufacturing operations. Our failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals and compliance could negatively affect our business Our products and manufacturing operations are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, and by similar regulatory agencies in many other countries in which we do business. Unless an exemption applies, each medical device that we propose to market in the U.S. must first receive one of the following types of FDA premarket review authorizations: • Clearance via Section 510(k) of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act of 1938, as amended; or • Premarket approval via Section 515 of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act if the FDA has determined that the medical device in question poses a greater risk of injury. The FDA’s Section 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to 12 months, but can take longer. The process of obtaining premarket approval via Section 515 is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain. Premarket approval generally takes from one to three years, but can take even longer. The FDA may not grant either Section 510(k) clearance or premarket approval for any product we propose to market. Furthermore, if the FDA concludes that future products using our technology do not meet the requirements to obtain Section 510(k) clearance, we would have to seek premarket approval via Section 515. The FDA may impose the more burdensome premarket approval requirement on modifications to our existing products or future products, which in either case could be costly and cause us to divert our attention and resources from the development of new products or the enhancement of existing products. Domestic regulation of our products and manufacturing operations, other than that which is administered by the FDA, includes the Environmental Protection Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, and state and local counterparts to these acts. Our business would be harmed if the FDA determines that we have failed to comply with applicable regulations or we do not pass an inspection We are subject to inspection and market surveillance by the FDA concerning compliance with pertinent regulatory requirements. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with these requirements, the Agency can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a public warning letter to more severe sanctions such as: • Fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • Recall or seizure of our products; • Issuance of public notices or warnings; • Imposition of operating restrictions, partial suspension, or total shutdown of production; • Refusal of our requests for Section 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products; • Withdrawal of Section 510(k) clearance or premarket approvals already granted; or • Criminal prosecution. We have received clearance from the FDA to market a new product that will potentially expose us to greater products liability exposure and FDA regulation In December 2006 we received clearance from the FDA to market the Olympic Cool-Cap, a product designed to lower the cerebral temperature of children born with a particular medical condition. This product is a Class III minimally invasive medical device, and as such we may be subject to an increased product liability risk relative to our other, Class I and Class II non-invasive products. In addition, this type of product is subject to greater FDA oversight than our other products and there is greater risk that sales of the product could be interrupted, due to the oversight processes of the FDA and other regulatory bodies. 24 Table of Contents Our business may suffer if we are required to revise our labeling or promotional materials, or the FDA takes an enforcement action against us for off-label uses We are prohibited by the FDA from promoting or advertising our medical device products for uses not within the scope of our clearances or approvals, or from making unsupported promotional claims about the benefits of our products. If the FDA determines that our claims are outside the scope of our clearances, or are unsupported, it could require us to revise our promotional claims or take enforcement action against us. If we were subject to such an action by the FDA, our sales could be delayed, our revenue could decline, and our reputation among clinicians could be harmed. If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with applicable regulations, sales of our products could be delayed and our revenue could be harmed Every manufacturer of a finished medical device, including Natus and some of our contract manufacturers and suppliers, is required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s quality system regulation and comparable regulations of states and other countries. The FDA enforces the quality system regulation through periodic inspections. We, or our contract manufacturers, may fail to pass future quality system regulation inspections. If we, or our contract manufacturers, fail one of these inspections in the future, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing and sales delayed significantly until we demonstrate adequate compliance. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to take adequate corrective action in a timely fashion in response to a quality system regulation inspection, the FDA could shut down our or our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing operations or require us, among other things, to recall our products, either of which would harm our business. Our operating results would suffer if we were subject to a protracted infringement claim The medical technology industry has, in the past, been characterized by a substantial amount of litigation and related administrative proceedings regarding patents and intellectual property rights. We expect that medical screening and diagnostic products may become increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlap. Third parties such as individuals, educational institutions or other medical device companies may claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could have any of the following negative consequences: • Result in costly litigation and damage awards; • Divert our management’s attention and resources; • Cause product shipment delays or suspensions; or • Require us to seek to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. A successful claim of infringement against us could result in a substantial damage award and materially harm our financial condition. Our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology, or design and build non-infringing products, could prevent us from selling our products and adversely affect our business and financial results. We license intellectual property rights from third parties and would be adversely affected if our licensors do not appropriately defend their proprietary rights or if we breach any of the agreements under which we license commercialization rights to products or technology from others We license rights from third parties for products and technology that are important to our business. If our licensors are unsuccessful in asserting and defending their proprietary rights, including patent rights and trade secrets, we may lose the competitive advantages we have through selling products that we license from third parties. Additionally, if it is found that our licensors infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we may be prohibited from marketing our existing products that incorporate those proprietary rights. Under our licenses, we 25 Table of Contents are subject to commercialization and development, sublicensing, royalty, insurance and other obligations. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, or otherwise breach a license agreement, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license in whole or to terminate the exclusive nature of the license. Product liability suits against us could result in expensive and time consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages, and an increase in our insurance rates The sale and use of our products could lead to the filing of a product liability claim by someone claiming to have been injured using one of our products or claiming that one of our products failed to perform properly. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business reputation or financial condition. Our product liability insurance may not protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing any coverage in the future. We have a history of losses, variable quarterly results, and seasonality in the sale of our products, and may not maintain profitability in the future Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses, including net losses for the years 2004 and 2003, and we may incur net losses in the future. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $31.7 million. Additionally, our revenue and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The following are among the factors that could cause our revenue, operating results and margins to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter: • Budgeting cycle of our customers, particularly government entities; • Size and timing of specific sales, such as large purchases of our devices and systems or our supplies and services by government agencies or hospital systems; • Trade-in allowances or other concessions in connection with the introduction of new products or improvements to existing products; • Length and unpredictability of our sales cycle; and • Market changes caused by rapidly evolving technology. In addition, we experience seasonality in our revenue. For example, our sales typically decline from our fourth fiscal quarter to our first fiscal quarter, due to patterns in the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our current and prospective customers, many of which are government agencies. We may also experience declining sales in the third fiscal quarter due to summer holiday and vacation schedules. We anticipate that we will continue to experience these seasonal fluctuations, which may lead to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. We believe that you should not rely on our results of operations for interim periods as an indication of our expected results in any future period. We anticipate that it will become increasingly difficult for us to manage our expenses as we: • Continue to invest in research and development to enhance our product lines, including products and technologies we have gained through our acquisitions; • Develop additional applications for our current technology; • Increase our marketing and selling activities, particularly outside the U.S.; and • Develop additional infrastructure and hire required management and other employees to keep pace with our growth. As a result of these factors, we may need to generate proportionately higher revenue to maintain profitability. We cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain profitability in the future. 26 Table of Contents We could lose the ability to use net operating loss and credit carryforwards, which may adversely affect our financial results As of December 31, 2006, we had total federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $11.2 million and credit carryforwards of approximately $1.0 million available to reduce future taxable income. These net operating loss and credit carryforwards, if not utilized to offset taxable income in future periods, will expire in various amounts beginning in 2008. In addition, the net operating loss and credit carryforwards are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), and are thus subject to adjustment or disallowance resulting from any such IRS examination. If we are unable to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, our future tax payments could be higher and our financial condition may suffer. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 