ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may significantly impact us during periods of market volatility or reduced liquidity. The potential harm from any one of these risks, or others, could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Some risks may adversely impact not only our own operations, but the banking or securities industry in general which could also produce marked swings in the trading price of our securities. Although the risks described below are those that management believes are the most significant, these are not the only risks facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not deem to be material may also materially affect our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may amend or supplement these risk factors from time to time in the reports we file with the SEC. RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE MERGER Because the market price of Hilltop common stock will fluctuate and the per share merger consideration may be adjusted, our stockholders cannot be sure of the value of the merger consideration they will receive. Upon completion of the merger, each share of our common stock will be converted into merger consideration consisting of $1.94 in cash and 0.2496 of a share of Hilltop common stock. Because the stock portion of the merger consideration is based on a fixed ratio, the market value of the merger consideration may at any given time vary from the closing price of Hilltop common stock on the date the merger was announced. Any change in the market price of Hilltop common stock prior to completion of the merger will affect the market value of the merger consideration that our stockholders will receive upon completion of the merger. We are not permitted to terminate the Merger Agreement or resolicit the vote of our stockholders solely because of changes in the market price of Hilltop’s common stock, and there will be no adjustment to the merger consideration for changes in such market price. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in Hilltop’s or our respective businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. The merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities that may take longer than expected or may impose conditions that are not presently anticipated or that could have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. The merger is conditioned on the receipt of all requisite governmental and regulatory authorizations, consents, orders and approvals from the Federal Reserve Board and the Texas Department of Banking and, if applicable, the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended. These government entities may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger. There can be no assurance that material conditions or changes will not be imposed that are in addition to the capital commitments we have in place with the OCC, and such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. We will be subject to business uncertainties, and we are subject to contractual restrictions while the merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on us. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel while the merger is pending, and could cause customers and others that deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us. Retention of certain employees may be challenging during the pendency of the merger, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. If key employees depart because of issues relating to such uncertainty or a desire not to remain with the business, our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us from taking certain specified actions until the merger occurs without the consent of Hilltop. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion 21 Table of Contents of the merger and may affect our strategic business plans. Lastly, our business may be indirectly adversely affected by the failure to pursue other opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger. The merger is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the merger not being completed, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. The merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and approval of our stockholders. If any condition to the merger is not satisfied or waived, the merger will not be completed. In addition, Hilltop and we may terminate the merger agreement under certain circumstances even if the merger is approved by our stockholders, including if the merger has not been consummated by March 31, 2015. If the merger is not completed, the trading price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects an assumption that the merger will be completed. In addition, neither company would realize any of the expected benefits of the merger. If the merger is not completed, additional risks could materialize, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Merger Agreement limits our ability to pursue an alternative transaction and requires us to pay a termination fee of $8 million under certain circumstances relating to alternative acquisition proposals. Under the Merger Agreement, we agreed that we will not, and will cause our subsidiaries not to, and will use our reasonable best efforts to cause our or their respective officers, directors, employees, representatives or agents not to, knowingly encourage, solicit, participate in, knowingly facilitate or initiate discussions, negotiations, inquiries, proposals or offers with or provide any non-public information to, any person relating to any third party acquisition or any inquiry, proposal or offer reasonably likely to lead to a third party acquisition, subject to exceptions set forth in the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement also provides for the payment by us of a termination fee in the amount of $8 million in the event that Hilltop terminates the Merger Agreement for certain reasons including a change in the recommendation of our BOD or a termination of the Merger Agreement in certain circumstances followed by an acquisition of, or an agreement to acquire, us by a third party. These provisions may discourage a potential competing acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of us from considering or proposing such an acquisition. Our Credit Agreement with Hilltop and Oak Hill contains a covenant restricting our ability to enter into alternative transactions and Hilltop has not waived this covenant. The terms of the Credit Agreement with Hilltop and Oak Hill include a covenant prohibiting us from undergoing a “Fundamental Change,” which includes any merger, amalgamation or consolidation, and which we would breach by engaging in a merger, amalgamation or consolidation unless compliance were waived by each of Hilltop and Oak Hill. During the parties’ negotiations with respect to the merger, Hilltop indicated to us that it would not be willing to grant a waiver of this covenant to permit a third party transaction. The existence of the this covenant, and Hilltop’s unwillingness to waive it, may have discouraged and may continue to discourage potential competing acquirors that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of us from considering or proposing such an acquisition. Termination of the Merger Agreement could negatively impact us. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, there may be various consequences. For example, our business may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of the merger. A termination of the Merger Agreement may also damage our reputation and franchise value. If the Merger Agreement is terminated and our BOD seeks another merger or business combination, our stockholders cannot be certain that we will be able to find a party willing to engage in a transaction or to pay the equivalent or greater consideration than that which Hilltop has agreed to pay in the merger. The combined company expects to incur substantial expenses related to the merger. The combined company expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with completing the merger and combining the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of the two companies. Although we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and combination expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of our combination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to accurately estimate. Due to these factors, the transaction and combination expenses associated with the merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the combination of the businesses following the completion of the merger. As a result of these expenses, we expect to take charges against our earnings before and after the completion of the merger. The charges taken in connection with the merger are expected to be significant, although the aggregate amount and timing of such charges are uncertain. Further, if the merger is not completed, we would have to recognize these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. If completed, the merger may not produce its anticipated results, and Hilltop and we may be unable to combine our operations in the manner expected. We and Hilltop entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the organizations can be combined in an efficient, effective and timely manner. It is possible that the transition process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, controls, procedures, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. The 22 Table of Contents combined company’s results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company’s operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. The companies may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The transition process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated benefits will be realized or, if realized, the timing of their realization. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined company’s future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. The completion of the merger may trigger change in control provisions in certain agreements to which we are a party. The completion of the merger may trigger change in control provisions in certain agreements to which we are a party. If we and Hilltop are unable to negotiate consents or waivers of those provisions, the counterparties may exercise their rights and remedies under the agreements (including terminating the agreements or seeking monetary penalties). Even if we or Hilltop are able to obtain consents or waivers, the counterparties may demand a fee for such consents or waivers or seek to renegotiate the agreements on materially less favorable terms than those currently in place. Pending litigation against us could result in an injunction preventing the completion of the merger or a judgment resulting in the payment of damages. In connection with the merger, purported stockholders have filed putative shareholder class action lawsuits against us and the members of our BOD. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. If the cases are not resolved, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Plaintiffs may file additional lawsuits against us and/or the directors and officers of the company, in connection with the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger is completed may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR INDUSTRIES Compliance with regulatory reform legislation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. On July 21, 2010, the President of the United States signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations on the financial services industry in general, and on us in particular, is still being determined. SWS Group and the Bank will be subject to additional significant regulatory requirements, which may have a material impact on each or both of them, or SWS as a whole. The principal effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business include: · changes to the supervisory structure for SWS Group and the Bank; · changes to regulatory capital requirements applicable to SWS Group and the Bank; · establishment of the Bureau with broad authority to issue new consumer protection regulations; · increases in the minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC to 2% and a change in the base for FDIC insurance assessments; and · proposed prohibitions on “proprietary trading” and proposed limitations with respect to the sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge funds and private equity under the Volcker Rule. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS was abolished and, on July 21, 2011, the OCC took over supervision and regulation of federal thrifts, such as the Bank, and the FRB took over supervision and regulation of savings and loan holding companies, including SWS Group. As a result, we are subject to the regulatory capital and activity requirements, including the new Basel III regulatory capital framework approved by the FRB in July 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires that SWS Group serve as a “source of strength” for the Bank, however, implementing regulations have not been proposed. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new independent regulatory body, the Bureau, which was given broad rulemaking authority to implement the consumer protection laws that apply to banks and thrifts and to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by this new independent regulatory body. Full implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will require many new rules to be issued by numerous federal regulatory agencies over the next several years. We expect that several aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act may affect our business, including, without limitation, increased capital requirements, increased mortgage regulation, restrictions on proprietary trading in securities, restrictions on investments in hedge funds and private equity funds, executive compensation restrictions and disclosure and reporting requirements. Given the significance of the changes and the additional regulatory action required for many of the new provisions, we cannot predict all of the ways or the degree to which our business, financial condition and results of operations may be affected by the Dodd-Frank Act once it is fully implemented. Compliance with these new laws and regulations likely will result in additional costs, which could be significant and may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. For additional discussion of the Dodd-Frank Act, see "Item 1. Business-Regulation” included elsewhere in this report. 23 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity. Governmental and regulatory scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other matters has increased dramatically in the past several years. The financial crisis and the current political and public sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government officials. Press coverage and other public statements that assert some form of wrongdoing often result in some type of investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits. Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time consuming and expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior management from our business. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation targeted at the financial services industry. Adverse publicity, governmental and regulatory scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. Failure to comply with state and federal laws governing our securities and banking operations, or the regulations adopted by certain self-regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Broker/dealers, investment advisors and banks are subject to regulation in almost every facet of their operations. Our ability to comply with these regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to alleged non-compliance with these laws or regulations or possibly for the alleged non-compliance of our correspondents. If non-compliance is alleged by a regulatory authority, our management’s efforts could be diverted to responding to such claim and we could be subject to a range of possible consequences, including the payment of fines and the suspension of one or more portions of our business. Our clearing contracts generally include automatic termination provisions that are triggered in the event we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. In addition, the failure of the Bank to maintain its status as “well capitalized” could lead to regulatory sanctions and limitations and could lead federal banking agencies to take prompt corrective action. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and new capital rules are uncertain. In July 2013, the OCC and FRB approved a final rule that will substantially amend the risk-based capital rules applicable to SWS Group and the Bank. The final rule implements the “Basel III” regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule includes new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which will be effective for SWS Group and the Bank on January 1, 2015, and refines the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating these ratios. The new minimum capital requirements will be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. The final rule also establishes a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios and will result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%; (ii) a Tier 1 to risk-based assets capital ratio of 8.5%; and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations will establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for such actions. The application of more stringent capital requirements for SWS Group and the Bank could, among other things, adversely affect our results of operations and growth, require the raising of additional capital, restrict our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. In July 2013, the SEC adopted various amendments to Rules 15c3-1 and 15c3-3 under the Exchange Act related to, among other things, securities lending, certain new deductions from net capital, proprietary accounts of broker/dealer customers, certain broker/dealer insolvency events and corresponding related amendments to books and records rules. Our business has been and may continue to be materially and adversely affected by financial market conditions and economic conditions generally. Our business is affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally around the world. The financial services industry and the securities markets generally are materially and adversely affected by recessionary or volatile environments which can cause significant declines in the value of nearly all asset classes. Concerns about financial institution profitability and solvency as a result of general market conditions, particularly in the credit markets, may cause our customers and clients to reduce the level of business that they do with us. Declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, general uncertainty about economic and market activity and a lack of consumer and investor confidence have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our business. Our financial performance is highly dependent on the business environment in which we operate. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent and efficient capital markets, liquid markets with active investors, low inflation, high business and consumer confidence, active new issuance markets for fixed income and equity securities and strong business earnings. Slowing 24 Table of Contents growth, contraction of credit, increasing energy prices, declines in business or investor confidence or risk tolerance, increases in inflation, higher unemployment, outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability, corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets and natural disasters, among other things, can affect the global financial markets. In addition, economic or political pressures in a country or region may cause local market disruptions and currency devaluations, which may also affect markets generally. In the event of changes in market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, equity, fixed income, commodity or real estate valuations, liquidity, availability of credit or volatility, our business could be adversely affected. Overall, the business environment since 2008 has been difficult. While many economists believe the recession ended in June 2009 and while select factors indicate signs of improvement, significant uncertainty still remains. Unemployment and tight credit markets continue to create a fragile economic environment, and there is no guarantee that conditions will not worsen again leading to further decline in economic and market conditions. Although Texas was largely insulated from severe job loss and real estate market deterioration at the start of the recession, it experienced distress in residential and commercial real estate values as well as elevated unemployment. These conditions had, and will continue to have, a direct and material impact on our results of operations and financial condition because performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity. Our ability to access capital markets is dependent on market conditions and our credit standing, which could change unfavorably. Factors that are significant to the determination of our credit worthiness or otherwise affect our ability to raise financing include the level and volatility of our earnings and whether we have net losses, our relative competitive position in the markets in which we operate, our product diversification, our ability to retain key personnel, our risk profile, our risk management policies, our cash liquidity, our capital adequacy, our corporate lending credit risk and legal and regulatory developments. Additionally, market conditions can be unfavorable for our industry causing banks and other liquidity sources to reduce or limit credit to our industry. This could limit the availability of, and thus our access to, capital and/or increase the cost of funding new or existing businesses. Our revenues may decrease if securities transaction volumes decline. Our securities business depends upon the general volume of trading in the U.S. securities markets. If the volume of securities transactions should decline, revenues from our securities brokerage, securities lending and clearing businesses would decrease and our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would be materially and adversely impacted. Market fluctuations could adversely impact our securities business. We are subject to risks as a result of fluctuations in the securities markets. Our securities trading, market-making and underwriting activities involve the purchase and sale of securities as a principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. Market conditions could limit our ability to sell securities purchased or to purchase securities sold in such transactions. If price levels for equity securities decline generally, the market value of equity securities that we hold in our inventory could decrease and trading volumes could decline. In addition, if interest rates increase, the value of debt securities we hold in our inventory would decrease. Rapid or significant market fluctuations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, during periods of market disruption, it may be difficult to value certain assets if comparable sales become less frequent or market data becomes less observable. Certain classes of assets or loan collateral that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid due to the current financial environment. In such cases, asset valuations may require more estimation and subjective judgment. Rapidly changing real estate market conditions could materially impact the valuation of assets and loan collateral as reported in our financial statements and changes in estimated values could vary significantly from one period to the next. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, credit unions, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even negative speculation about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the receivable due us. Any such losses could be material and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 25 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Agreements with Hilltop and Oak Hill provide them with influence over certain matters requiring director and stockholder approval. In connection with loans made under the Credit Agreement by and among Oak Hill and Hilltop (the “Investors”) and us, the Investors were each issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 8,695,652 shares of our common stock (the “Warrants”). For each Investor, the Warrants represent approximately 17% of our common stock (assuming that all of the Warrants are exercised in full). The Investors have the right to exercise the Warrants to purchase shares of our common stock at an agreed upon exercise price. Pursuant to an Investor Rights Agreement, by and between the Investors and us, dated as of July 29, 2011 (the “Investor Rights Agreement”), each of the Investors has the right to appoint one representative of the Investor to serve as a member of our BOD, and one representative of the Investor to serve as an observer of the BOD. Our BOD consists of 10 directors, including five who qualify as independent under the NYSE listing standards and the two directors who were appointed by the Investors. The representatives of Oak Hill and Hilltop appointed to serve as members of the BOD share in the duties of the BOD by generally participating in and voting during board meetings. The Credit Agreement with the Investors contains certain covenants, including a covenant that prohibits us from prepaying the loan other than following a period during which the closing price for our common stock exceeds 150% of the exercise price of the warrants (i.e., exceeds $8.625) for 20 out of any 30 consecutive trading days and a covenant that prohibits us from undergoing a “Fundamental Change,” which includes any merger, amalgamation or consolidation. As a result of the Warrants, Investor Rights Agreement and the Credit Agreement, the Investors have influence over certain matters requiring director and stockholder approval, including, among other things, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and the election of certain members of the BOD. Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in commercial, construction and real estate loans, has adversely impacted the Bank and may adversely impact the Bank. Beginning in fiscal 2009, the Bank began to experience a downturn in the overall credit performance of its real estate loans held for investment, as well as acceleration in the deterioration of general economic conditions in Texas and other areas of the United States. This deterioration, as well as increases in Texas unemployment levels, worsened in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. These conditions caused increased financial stress on many of the Bank’s borrowers and negatively impacted their ability to repay their loans. Classified and non-performing assets increased significantly in fiscal 2010 and 2011 and real estate collateral values continued to decline in both fiscal 2010 and 2011. Due to these factors, the Bank significantly increased its loan loss reserves in fiscal 2010 and 2011. Both classified and non-performing assets have improved throughout fiscal 2012, 2013 and 2014, and in fiscal 2014 and 2013, the Bank recognized a recapture for loan losses of $5.4 million and $7.7 million, respectively. Deterioration in the credit quality of the Bank's real estate loan portfolio could significantly increase non-performing loans, require additional increases in loan loss reserves and elevate charge-off levels. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Bank's capital, financial condition or results of operations and increase the risk of additional regulatory action. The Bank is subject to regulatory capital requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth. The Bank is a federal savings bank that is subject to comprehensive supervision and regulation of the OCC, including risk-based, leverage and tangible capital ratio requirements. Capital requirements may rise above normal levels when the Bank experiences deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and the OCC may increase the Bank’s capital requirements based on general economic conditions and the Bank’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. The Bank has made a commitment to the OCC that the Bank will, among other things: (i) adhere to the Bank’s written business and capital plan as amended from time to time and (ii) maintain a Tier 1 (core) capital ratio at least equal to nine percent (9%) and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least twelve percent (12%). Compliance with capital requirements may limit the Bank’s operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect the Bank’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires the use of estimates that may vary from actual results and new accounting standards could adversely affect future reported results. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates and assumptions may require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. See Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates,” for additional information on the nature of these estimates. Our financial instruments, including certain trading assets and liabilities, available for sale securities, certain loans, interest rate swaps and warrants, require management to make a determination of their fair value in order to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Where quoted market prices are not available, we may make fair value determinations based on internally developed models or other means which ultimately rely to some degree on our judgment. Some of these instruments 26 Table of Contents and other assets and liabilities may have no direct observable inputs, making their valuation particularly subjective, being based on significant estimation and judgment by management. In addition, sudden illiquidity in markets or declines in prices of certain securities may make it more difficult to value certain items, which may lead to the possibility that such valuations will be subject to change or adjustment and could lead to declines in our earnings in subsequent periods. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a restatement of prior period financial statements. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could result in a misstatement of our financial statements. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to furnish an annual report by our management assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Ineffective internal controls could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining effective internal controls, we may be unable to accurately and timely report financial information or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. Any such failure in the future could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding disclosure controls and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules promulgated hereunder. If we are unable to report financial information in a timely and accurate manner or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be in default under our Credit Agreement or be subject to, among other things, investigations or regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, the FRB, the FDIC, the OCC or other governmental authorities. In addition, any failure to maintain effective internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Risk management processes may not fully mitigate exposure to the various risks that we face, including market, liquidity and credit risk. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods on an ongoing basis. However, risk management techniques and strategies, both ours and those available to the market generally, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we might fail to identify or anticipate particular risks that our systems are capable of identifying, or the systems that we use, and that are used within the industry generally, may not be capable of identifying certain risks. Some of our strategies for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify our risk exposure. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify our risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks. In addition, any risk management failures could cause our losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Further, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. As a result, we also take a qualitative approach in reducing our risk. Our qualitative approach to managing those risks could also prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. Our business is significantly dependent on net interest margins. The profitability of our margin and stock lending businesses depends to a great extent on the difference between interest income earned on loans and investments of customer cash balances and the interest expense paid on customer cash balances and borrowings. The earnings and cash flows of the Bank are also dependent upon the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could affect the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. Such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Our net interest margins may decrease based on the mix of assets in the Bank’s portfolio and our investment strategy. In recent years, interest rates have declined to levels that have negatively impacted the net interest margin at the Bank and the broker/dealer. Additionally, as we have repositioned the Bank’s balance sheet to include a portfolio of conservative investment securities, the net interest margin on these assets is likely to be less than we have historically earned on our loan portfolio. Our earnings and results of operations could be adversely affected by any reduction in our net interest margin due to our investment 27 Table of Contents policies, returns on investments or market dynamics. Additionally, the Bank expects to periodically experience "gaps" in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either the Bank’s interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than the Bank’s interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Bank’s position, this "gap" may work against the Bank, and the Bank’s earnings may be adversely affected. As part of the Bank’s risk mitigation strategy to reduce its exposure to variability in interest payments on the Bank’s variable rate deposits, forward-start interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedging instruments have been utilized. The Bank’s forward-start interest rate swaps exchange fixed for variable interest payments beginning at a pre-specified date in the future according to the terms of the swap agreements. There is no guarantee that the structure of these derivative transactions will operate as designed and remain effective. If these transactions are not effective, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to reduce our operating expenses as a way to reduce any operating losses. To the extent our net interest income declines or we face other declines in revenues, we may look to reduce our operating expenses where possible. However, we have limited control over certain costs, and in particular, the cost of meeting regulatory requirements and our cost to access capital or financing, if needed. If we are unable to reduce our operating expenses, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our margin lending, stock lending, securities trading and execution, bank lending and mortgage purchase businesses are all subject to credit risk. Credit risk in all areas of our business increases if securities prices decline rapidly because the value of our collateral could fall below the amount of the indebtedness it secures. In rapidly appreciating markets, credit risk increases due to short positions. Our securities lending business as well as our securities trading and execution businesses subject us to credit risk if a counterparty fails to perform or if collateral securing its obligations is insufficient. In securities transactions, we are subject to credit risk during the period between the execution of a trade and the settlement by the customer. In addition, the Bank is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans in accordance with their terms, the collateral securing the loans may be insufficient, or its loan loss reserve may be inadequate to fully compensate the Bank for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. Our mortgage warehousing activities subject us to credit risk during the period between funding by the Bank and when the mortgage company sells the loan to a secondary investor. Significant failures by our customers, including correspondents, or clients to honor their obligations, together with insufficient collateral and reserves, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our investment advisory business may be affected by the poor investment performance of our investment products. Poor investment returns and declines in client assets in our investment advisory business, due to either general market conditions or underperformance (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by our investment products, affects our ability to retain existing assets, prevent clients from transferring their assets out of our products or their accounts, or inhibit our ability to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients. This could adversely affect our advisory business and the advisory fees that we earn on client assets. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses. The Bank’s borrowers may fail to repay their loans according to the loan terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Such loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions, estimates and judgments about the collectability of the Bank’s loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, the Bank relies on a number of factors, including its experience and evaluation of economic conditions. If the Bank’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, its allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio, and adjustments may be necessary that would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The Bank’s commercial real estate, commercial and mortgage lending businesses are dependent on the general health of the Texas and New Mexico economies. Any downturn in the Texas and New Mexico local economies could adversely affect the Bank’s commercial real estate, commercial and mortgage lending businesses, and consequently our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, any decline in real estate values generally and in Texas and New Mexico specifically could impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon any foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, the amounts we receive upon sale of the collateral may be insufficient to recover the outstanding principal and interest on the loan. Our business and prospects, including our ability to attract and retain customers, clients and employees, may be adversely affected if our reputation is harmed. Our business is subject to significant reputational risks. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with various legal, regulatory or business issues, our reputation, business and prospects, including 28 Table of Contents our ability to attract and retain customers, clients and employees, could be seriously harmed. This could be the case not only in situations involving actual violations of law but also in circumstances where no laws have been violated. Our reputation could be harmed in many different ways, including as a result of the perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest or ethical issues, failure to comply with legal or regulatory requirements, allegations of money laundering, violation of privacy policies, failure to properly maintain customer, client and employee personal information, failure to maintain adequate or accurate records, allegations of unfair sales and trading practices, and improper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Publicity of a failure to appropriately address these issues could result in litigation claims or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Legal liability or regulatory actions as a result of negative publicity could in turn cause significant additional reputational harm. We depend on the highly skilled, and often specialized, individuals we employ. Competition for the services of personnel in our loan production, private client group, securities lending and trading businesses is intense, and we may not be able to retain them. We generally do not enter into employment or noncompetition agreements with our employees. Our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially impacted if we were to lose the services of certain of our loan production, private client group, securities lending or trading professionals. In particular, in our retail and institutional securities brokerage business, we depend on the brokers and financial advisors that advise our customers and clients, certain of whom generate significant income for us. We depend on our computer and communications systems and an interruption in service would negatively affect our business. Our businesses rely on electronic data processing and communications systems. The effective use of technology allows us to better serve customers and clients, increases efficiency and reduces costs. Our continued success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain, secure and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. Significant malfunctions or failures of our computer systems, computer security, software or any other systems in the trading process (e.g., record retention and data processing functions performed by third parties, and third party software, such as Internet browsers) could cause delays in customer trading activity. Such delays could cause substantial losses for customers and could subject us to claims from customers for losses, including litigation claiming fraud or negligence. In addition, if our computer and communications systems fail to operate properly, regulations would restrict our ability to conduct business. Any such failure could prevent us from collecting funds relating to customer and client transactions, which would materially impact our cash flows. Any computer or communications system failure or decrease in computer system performance that causes interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively or timely implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers and clients. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business, our financial condition, and results of operations or cash flows. Our computer systems and network infrastructure could be vulnerable to security problems. Third parties may attempt to penetrate our network security and may be able to penetrate our network security to misappropriate proprietary information which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmissions of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, discoveries in the field of cryptography and other discoveries, events or developments could lead to a compromise or breach of the algorithms that our licensed encryption and authentication technology uses to protect such confidential information. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources and engage the services of third parties to protect against the threat of such security, encryption and authentication technology breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Security breaches or the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Credit Agreement with Hilltop and Oak Hill contains restrictions and covenants that impact our business and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. On July 29, 2011, we entered into a Credit Agreement which contains customary covenants that require us to, among other things: · maintain a tangible net worth at least equal to the sum of $275.0 million and 20% of cumulative consolidated net income (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for each fiscal quarter for which consolidated net income is positive; · maintain a minimum unrestricted cash balance (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of at least $4.0 million; and · maintain an excess net capital balance at Southwest Securities of at least $100.0 million as of the end of each calendar month. 29 Table of Contents In addition, certain of these covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: · incur additional indebtedness; · dispose of or acquire certain assets; · pay dividends on our capital stock; · make investments, including acquisitions; and · enter into transactions with affiliates. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds necessary to make required payments under the Credit Agreement, or we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness, we could be in default under the Credit Agreement. Any default that is not cured or waived could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Agreement. Any such default which actually causes an acceleration of obligations could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition or cash flows. Additionally, the covenants in such agreement or future debt agreements may restrict the conduct of our business, which could adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to engage in financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to our business. Misconduct or errors by our employees or entities with which we do business could harm us and are difficult to detect and prevent. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct or employee errors could occur at our company. For example, misconduct could result from the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and error could involve the failure to follow or implement procedures, either of which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter misconduct or errors and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our ability to detect and prevent misconduct or errors by entities with which we do business may be even more limited. We may suffer reputational harm for any misconduct or errors by our employees or those entities with which we do business. We face liquidity risk, which is the potential inability to repay short-term borrowings with new borrowings or assets that can be quickly converted into cash while meeting other ongoing obligations. Our liquidity may be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as general market disruptions or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, depositors, third parties or ourselves. Our ability to sell assets may also be impaired by regulatory constraints or if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. Our inability to borrow funds or sell assets to meet maturing obligations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our customers decide not to invest with us, our liquidity could be adversely affected. If our retail banking and securities clients withdraw their deposits or our institutional customers withdraw their trading lines with us, our liquidity would be impaired. Furthermore, we currently have access to advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”). If we become subject to regulatory actions, we may not have access to these advances and our liquidity could be impaired. Our securities business is subject to numerous operational risks. Our securities business must be able to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information and accurately assess loan values, process transactions and provide reports and other customer or client services. Any failure to keep current and accurate books and records can render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our customers and clients. If any of our financial, portfolio accounting or other data processing systems do not operate properly or are disabled, or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, a financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to our customers and clients, regulatory problems or damage to our reputation. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. In addition, our operations are dependent upon information from, and communications with, third parties, and operational problems at third parties may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business. We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities law liabilities. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. In the normal course of our business, we have been subject to claims by customers and clients alleging unauthorized trading, churning, mismanagement, suitability of investments, breach of fiduciary duty or other alleged misconduct by our employees or brokers. We are sometimes brought into lawsuits based on allegations concerning our correspondents. As underwriters, we are subject to substantial potential liability for material misstatements and omissions in prospectuses and other communications with respect to underwritten offerings of securities. Prolonged litigation producing significant legal expenses or a substantial settlement or adverse judgment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We face strong competition from larger firms. The financial services business is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. Many of our competitors have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name 30 Table of Contents recognition, more professionals to serve their clients’ needs and better established relationships with clients than we have. These larger competitors may be better able to respond to industry change, compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and compete for market share generally. Our portfolio trading business is highly price competitive and serves a very limited market. Our portfolio trading business serves one small component of the portfolio trading execution market with a small customer base and a high service model, charging competitive commission rates. Consequently, growing or maintaining market share is very price sensitive. We rely upon a high level of customer service and product customization to maintain our market share; however, should prevailing market prices fall, or the size of our market segment or customer base decline, our profitability would be adversely impacted. In addition, in our portfolio trading business, we purchase securities as principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. See “– Market fluctuations could adversely impact our securities business.” Our existing correspondents may choose to perform their own clearing services, move their clearing business to one of our competitors or exit the business. As our correspondents’ operations grow, they often consider the option of performing clearing functions themselves, in a process referred to as "self-clearing." The option to convert to self-clearing operations may be attractive due to the fact that as the transaction volume of a broker/dealer grows, the cost of implementing the necessary infrastructure for self-clearing may eventually be offset by the elimination of per transaction processing fees that would otherwise be paid to a clearing firm. Additionally, performing their own clearing services allows self-clearing broker/dealers to retain their customers’ margin balances, free credit balances and securities for use in margin lending activities. Furthermore, our correspondents’ may decide to use the clearing services of one of our competitors or exit the business. Any significant loss of correspondents due to self-clearing or because of their use of a competitor’s clearing service could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Several of our product lines rely on favorable tax treatment and changes in federal tax law could impact the attractiveness of these products to our customers. We offer a variety of services and products, such as Individual Retirement Accounts and municipal bonds that rely on favorable federal income tax treatment to be attractive to our customers. Should favorable tax treatment of these products be eliminated or reduced, sales of these products could be materially impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our businesses may be adversely affected by new or changing tax laws. Our business can be directly or indirectly adversely affected by new tax legislation, the expiration of existing tax laws, or the interpretation of existing tax laws. In the normal course of business, we are subject to reviews by federal, state and local tax authorities. Reviews by federal, state and local tax authorities may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of taxes due which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to realize the value of our deferred tax assets. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. As of June 30, 2014, our net deferred tax assets were approximately $37.7 million, before our $35.5 million valuation allowance. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on our history of earnings, expectations for future earnings and expected timing of reversals of temporary differences. Realization of deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income, including taxable income in prior carry-back years, as well as future taxable income. A period of sustained losses or other changes in facts and circumstances could require us to recognize changes in the valuation allowance. If we fail to realize our deferred tax assets or we determine that increases to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance is required in future reporting periods, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Rising insurance costs and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with the increasing costs and regulations related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including, without limitation, property and casualty, workers’ compensation, general liability, and the company-funded portion of employee-related health care benefits. While the nature and scope of increasing costs and regulatory changes cannot be predicted, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The exercise of our outstanding warrants would significantly dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The exercise by Hilltop and/or Oak Hill of all or a substantial portion of our outstanding warrants would significantly dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Our operations rely on external vendors. We rely on certain external vendors to provide products and services necessary to maintain our day-to-day operations, particularly in the areas of operations, treasury management systems, information technology and security, exposing us to the risk that these vendors will not perform as required by our agreements. An external vendor’s failure to perform in accordance with our agreement could be disruptive to our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents An investment in our securities is not an insured deposit. Our common stock, preferred stock and indebtedness are not bank deposits and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of securities of any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, preferred stock or indebtedness, you may lose some or all of your investment. Anti-takeover provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, restated bylaws and Delaware law may make it more difficult for you to receive a change in control premium. Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult, even if such events were perceived by many of our stockholders as beneficial to their interests. These provisions include advance notice for nominations of directors and stockholders’ proposals, and authority to issue “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the BOD. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, in general, prevents an interested stockholder, defined generally as a person owning 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting stock, from engaging in a business combination with our company for three years following the date that person became an interested stockholder unless certain specified conditions are satisfied. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 