ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may increase during periods of market volatility or reduced liquidity. The potential harm from any one of these risks, or others, could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Some risks may adversely impact not only our own operations, but the banking or securities industry in general which could also produce marked swings in the trading price of our securities. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR INDUSTRIES Our business has been and may continue to be materially and adversely affected by financial market conditions and economic conditions generally. Our business is materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally around the world. For more than the past twelve months, these conditions have changed suddenly and negatively. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008 and continuing in 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes. Concerns about financial institution -14- Table of Contents profitability and solvency as a result of general market conditions, particularly in the credit markets, may cause our clients to reduce the level of business that they do with us. Declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, general uncertainty about economic and market activity and a lack of consumer and investor confidence have negatively impacted, and may continue to negatively impact, our business. Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which we operate. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent and efficient capital markets, liquid markets with active investors, low inflation, high business and consumer confidence and strong business earnings. Slowing growth, contraction of credit, increasing energy prices, declines in business or investor confidence or risk tolerance, increases in inflation, higher unemployment, outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability, corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets and natural disasters, among other things, can affect the global financial markets. In addition, economic or political pressures in a country or region may cause local market disruptions and currency devaluations, which may also affect markets generally. In the event of changes in market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, equity, fixed income, commodity or real estate valuations, liquidity, availability of credit or volatility, our business could be adversely affected in many ways. Overall, the business environment for the past twelve to twenty-four months has been extremely adverse and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. For the remainder of 2009, it is expected that adverse economic conditions and the recession will persist, causing a continuation of the unfavorable economic and market dynamics experienced in 2008, and possibly leading to a further decline in economic and market conditions. These conditions have had, and will continue to have, a direct and material impact on our results of operations and financial condition because performance in the financial services industry is heavily influenced by the overall strength of economic conditions and financial market activity. Our ability to access capital markets is dependent on market conditions and our credit standing, which could change unfavorably. Factors that are significant to the determination of our credit worthiness or otherwise affect our ability to raise financing include the level and volatility of our earnings; our relative competitive position in the markets in which we operate; our product diversification; our ability to retain key personnel; our risk profile; our risk management policies; our cash liquidity; our capital adequacy; our corporate lending credit risk; and legal and regulatory developments. A deterioration in any of these factors or combination of these factors may lead rating agencies to downgrade our credit ratings, thereby increasing our cost of obtaining funding. Additionally, market conditions can be unfavorable for our industry causing banks and other liquidity providers to reduce or limit credit to our industry segment. This could cause an increase in the cost of funding new or existing businesses. Our revenues may decrease if securities transaction volumes decline. Our securities business depends upon the general volume of trading in the United States securities markets. If the volume of securities transactions should decline, revenues from our securities brokerage, securities lending and clearing businesses would decrease and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow would be materially and adversely impacted. Market fluctuations could adversely impact our securities business. We are subject to risks as a result of fluctuations in the securities markets. Our securities trading, market-making and underwriting activities involve the purchase and sale of securities as a principal, which subjects our capital to significant risks. Market conditions could limit our ability to sell securities purchased or to purchase securities sold in such transactions. If price levels for equity securities decline generally, the market value of equity securities that we hold in our inventory could decrease and trading volumes could decline. In addition, if interest rates increase, the value of debt securities we hold in our inventory would decrease. Rapid or significant market fluctuations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Housing market fluctuations, specifically in North Texas, could adversely impact our banking business. We are subject to risks as a result of fluctuations in the housing markets. Our loan customers may fail to repay their loans according to the terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Such loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. North Texas currently has an oversupply of finished vacant housing which will take some time for the market to absorb. This oversupply may result in a deterioration of our residential construction loan portfolio. Though mortgage rates remain attractive and unemployment in North Texas remains lower than in many other regions of the country, significant fluctuations in mortgage rates and high rates of unemployment could also adversely affect our loan portfolio. A prolonged downturn in the housing market could have a significant adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. -15- Table of Contents Government actions to stabilize credit markets and financial institutions may not be effective and could adversely affect our competitive position. The U.S. Government has enacted legislation and created several programs to help stabilize credit markets and financial institutions and restore liquidity, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the Federal Reserve’s Commercial Paper Funding Facility and Money Market Investor Funding Facility and the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Additionally, the governments of many nations have announced similar measures for institutions in their respective countries. There is no assurance that these programs individually or collectively will have beneficial effects in the credit markets, will address credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs or will reduce volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets. If these programs fail to have their intended effects, it could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit and the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, we expect to face increased regulation of our industry as a result of the government programs listed above. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. We also may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and could adversely affect us. The stock and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we could experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even speculation about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the receivable due us. Any such losses could be material and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities law liabilities. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. In the normal course of our business, we have been subject to claims by clients dealing with matters such as unauthorized trading, churning, mismanagement, breach of fiduciary duty or other alleged misconduct by our employees. We are sometimes brought into lawsuits based on actions of our correspondents. As underwriters, we are subject to substantial potential liability for material misstatements and omissions in prospectuses and other communications with respect to underwritten offerings of securities. Prolonged litigation producing significant legal expenses or a substantial settlement or adverse judgment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Misconduct or errors by our employees or entities with which we do business could harm us and is difficult to detect and prevent. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, and error could involve the failure to follow or implement procedures, either of which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter misconduct or errors and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Our ability to detect and prevent misconduct or errors by entities with which we do business may be even more limited. We may suffer reputational harm for any misconduct or errors by our employees or those entities with which we do business. -16- Table of Contents Failure to comply with the extensive state and federal laws governing our securities and banking operations, or the regulations adopted by several self-regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over us, could have material adverse consequences for us. Broker/dealers and banks are subject to regulation in almost every facet of their operations. Our ability to comply with these regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to claimed non-compliance with these laws or regulations or possibly for the claimed non-compliance of our correspondents. If a claim of non-compliance is made by a regulatory authority, the efforts of our management could be diverted to responding to such claim and we could be subject to a range of possible consequences, including the payment of fines and the suspension of one or more portions of our business. Our clearing contracts generally include automatic termination provisions which are triggered in the event we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. Compliance with capital requirements could limit our ability to pay dividends at SWS or may impede our ability to repurchase shares of our capital stock. In addition, today’s economic and political environment calls into question the present regulatory structure and the laws and rules enforced thereunder. As such, it is likely that the rules and regulatory structure with which our business must comply will change. While the nature and scope of these regulatory changes cannot be predicted, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our business and prospects, including our ability to attract and retain clients and employees, may be adversely affected if our reputation is harmed. Our business is subject to significant reputational risks. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with various legal, regulatory or business issues, our reputation, business and prospects, including our ability to attract and retain clients and employees, could be seriously harmed. This could be the case not only in situations involving actual violations of law but also in circumstances where no laws have been violated. Our reputation could be harmed in many different ways, including as a result of perceived or actual failure to address conflicts of interest or ethical issues; failure to comply with legal or regulatory requirements; allegations of money laundering; violation of privacy policies; failure to properly maintain client and employee personal information; failure to maintain adequate or accurate records; allegations of unfair sales and trading practices; and improper identification of the legal, reputational, credit, liquidity and market risks inherent in our products. Publicity of a failure to appropriately address these issues could result in litigation claims or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Legal liability or regulatory actions as a result of negative publicity could in turn cause significant additional reputational harm. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS SPECIFIC TO OUR COMPANY Our securities business is subject to numerous operational risks. We must be able to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process client and investor transactions and provide reports and other customer service to our clients and investors. Any failure to keep current and accurate books and records can render us liable to disciplinary action by governmental and self-regulatory authorities, as well as to claims by our clients. If any of our financial, portfolio accounting or other data processing systems do not operate properly or are disabled, or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer an impairment to our liquidity, a financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory problems or damage to our reputation. These systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. In addition, our operations are dependent upon information from, and communications with, third parties, and operational problems at third parties may adversely affect our ability to carry on our business. Our business is significantly dependent on net interest margins. The profitability of our margin lending business depends to a great extent on the difference between interest income earned on margin loans and investments of customer cash and the interest expense paid on customer cash balances and borrowings. The earnings and cash flows of the Bank are also dependent upon the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could affect the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. Such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair value of our financial assets -17- Table of Contents and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Our margin lending, stock lending, securities execution, bank lending and mortgage purchase businesses are all subject to credit risk. Credit risk in all areas of our business increases if securities prices decline rapidly because the value of our collateral could fall below the amount of indebtedness it secures. In rapidly appreciating markets, credit risk increases due to short positions. Our securities lending business subjects us to credit risk if a counterparty fails to perform. In securities transactions, we are subject to credit risk during the period between the execution of a trade and the settlement by the customer. Our banking group is exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans in accordance with their terms, the collateral securing the loans may be insufficient, or our loan loss reserve may be inadequate to fully compensate us for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. Our mortgage warehousing activities subject us to credit risk while mortgages are purchased and held for resale. Significant failures by our customers, including correspondents, or clients to honor their obligations, together with insufficient collateral and reserves, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, the profitability of our banking segment could decrease. Our loan customers may fail to repay their loans according to the terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. Such loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions, estimates, and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we rely on a number of factors, including our own experience and our evaluation of economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, and adjustments may be necessary that would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The Bank’s mortgage, residential construction commercial real-estate and commercial lending businesses are dependent on the general health of the North Texas economy. A significant downturn in the local North Texas economy could adversely affect these lines of business, and consequently our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We depend on the highly skilled, and often specialized, individuals we employ, particularly certain personnel in our loan production, private client group, securities lending and trading businesses. Competition for the services of these employees is intense, and we cannot guarantee that our efforts to retain such personnel will be successful. We generally do not enter into employment agreements or noncompetition agreements with our employees. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow could be materially impacted if we were to lose the services of certain of our loan production, private client group, securities lending or trading professionals. We face strong competition from larger firms. The financial services business is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including client relationships, reputation, the abilities of our professionals, market focus and the relative quality and price of our services and products. Many of our competitors have a broader range of products and services, greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, more professionals to serve their clients’ needs and better established relationships with clients than we have. These larger competitors may be better able to respond to industry change, compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and compete for market share generally. The industry in which we compete has undergone a period of consolidation. We face intense competition for the clients that we serve and the products and services we offer. There has been significant consolidation as financial institutions with which we compete have been acquired by or merged into or acquired other firms. This consolidation may continue. Competition is based on many factors, including the range of products and services offered, pricing, customer service, brand recognition, reputation and perceived financial strength. Consolidations may enable other firms to offer a broader range of products and services than we do, or offer such products at more competitive prices. -18- Table of Contents We face liquidity risk, which is the potential inability to repay short-term borrowings with new borrowings or assets that can be quickly converted into cash while meeting other obligations and continuing to operate as a going concern. Our liquidity may be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as general market disruptions or an operational problem that affects our trading clients, third parties or ourselves. Our ability to sell assets may also be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. Our inability to borrow funds or sell assets to meet maturing obligations would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We depend on our computer and communications systems and an interruption in service would negatively affect our business. Our businesses rely on electronic data processing and communications systems. The effective use of technology allows us to better serve clients, increases efficiency and enables firms to reduce costs. Our continued success will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade the capability of our systems, our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy their demands and our ability to retain skilled information technology employees. Significant malfunctions or failures of our computer systems or any other systems in the trading process (e.g., record retention and data processing functions performed by third parties, and third party software, such as Internet browsers) could cause delays in customer trading activity. Such delays could cause substantial losses for customers and could subject us to claims from customers for losses, including litigation claiming fraud or negligence. In addition, if our computer and communications systems fail to operate properly, regulations would restrict our ability to conduct business. Any such failure could prevent us from collecting funds relating to customer transactions, which would materially impact our cash flow. Any computer or communications system failure or decrease in computer system performance that causes interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our computer systems and network infrastructure could be vulnerable to security problems. Hackers may attempt to penetrate our network security which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A party who is able to penetrate our network security could misappropriate proprietary information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, discoveries in the field of cryptography and other discoveries, events or developments could lead to a compromise or breach of the algorithms that our licensed encryption and authentication technology uses to protect such confidential information. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources and engage the services of third parties to protect against the threat of such security, encryption and authentication technology breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Security breaches or the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our portfolio trading business is highly price competitive and serves a very limited market. Our portfolio trading business serves one small component of the portfolio trading execution market with a small customer base and a high service model, charging competitive commission rates. Consequently, growing or maintaining market share is very price sensitive. We rely upon a high level of customer service and product customization to maintain our market share; however, should prevailing market prices fall, the size of our market segment decline or our customer base decline, our profitability would be adversely impacted. Our existing correspondents may choose to perform their own clearing services. As our correspondents’ operations grow, they often consider the option of performing clearing functions themselves, in a process referred to as “self clearing.” As the transaction volume of a broker/dealer grows, the cost of implementing the necessary infrastructure for self-clearing may be offset eventually by the elimination of per transaction processing fees that would otherwise be paid to a clearing firm. Additionally, performing their own clearing services allows self-clearing broker/dealers to retain their customers’ margin balances, free credit balances and securities for use in margin lending activities. Significant losses to self-clearing could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. -19- Table of Contents Several of our product lines rely on favorable tax treatment and changes in federal tax law could impact the attractiveness of these products to our customers. We offer a variety of services and products, such as Individual Retirement Accounts and municipal bonds that rely on favorable federal income tax treatment to be attractive to our customers. Should favorable tax treatment of these products be eliminated or reduced, sales of these products could be materially impacted, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Strategic investments or acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core businesses through both internal expansion and through strategic investments and acquisitions. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls, and to integrate relationships with clients, vendors, and business partners. Acquisitions pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose clients or employees or could under-perform relative to expectations. Risk management processes may not fully mitigate exposure to the various risks that we face, including market, liquidity and credit risk. We continue to refine our risk management techniques, strategies and assessment methods on an ongoing basis. However, risk management techniques and strategies, both ours and those available to the market generally, may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all economic market environments or against all types of risk. For example, we might fail to identify or anticipate particular risks that our systems are capable of identifying, or the systems that we use, and that are used within the industry generally, may not be capable of identifying certain risks. Some of our strategies for managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. We apply statistical and other tools to these observations to quantify our risk exposure. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify our risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks. In addition, any risk management failures could cause our losses to be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Further, our quantified modeling does not take all risks into account. As a result, we also take a qualitative approach in reducing our risk. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses. Insurance Risks. Our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with the increasing costs and regulatory changes related to our use of a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including, without limitation, property and casualty, workers’ compensation, general liability, and the company-funded portion of employee-related health care benefits. While the nature and scope of increasing costs and regulatory changes cannot be predicted, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We receive from time to time written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved. 