ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Set forth below are certain matters that may affect us. Adverse changes in general and local economic conditions have affected and may continue to affect the demand for homes and reduce our earnings. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. Over the last year, falling consumer confidence, a decreased availability of financing and higher interest rates on certain mortgage products have, among other factors, adversely impacted the homebuilding industry and our operations and financial condition. These conditions may continue or worsen. 10 Table of Contents Customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our homes at times when mortgage-financing costs are high or when credit is difficult to obtain. The majority of our homebuyers finance their purchases through our financial services operations or third-party lenders. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality, tightening of mortgage loan underwriting standards, or other issues. Over the last year, many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, mortgage interest rates on some mortgage products have increased, and many subprime and other alternative mortgage products are no longer being made available in the marketplace. As a result of these trends, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes has been adversely affected, which has adversely affected our operating results. These conditions may continue or worsen. We are experiencing our first downturn in a number of years. Continuation of this downturn may result in a continuing reduction in our revenues and deterioration of our margins. We are experiencing a significant and substantial downturn in homebuyer demand. Prior to this downturn, we experienced strong price appreciation in many of our markets. This price appreciation, coupled with rising interest rates, has resulted in the decreased affordability of new homes in many of our markets. If buyers are unable to afford new homes in these markets, prices will continue to decline, which will continue to harm both our revenues and margins. In addition, many of our competitors are aggressively liquidating land and new home inventories by selling homes at significantly reduced prices. At the same time we are also competing with the resale of existing homes, rental homes, and “almost new” homes owned by speculators seeking to exit the market. An increase in the number of mortgage loan defaults has also increased the supply of homes available for sale at reduced prices. All of these actions have resulted in a meaningful increase in the supply of homes available for sale, which may continue or increase, making it more difficult for us to sell our homes and to maintain our profit margins. We may be unable to obtain suitable bonding for the development of our communities. We provide bonds to governmental authorities and others to ensure the completion of our projects. If we are unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could be adversely affected. As a result of the recent deterioration in market conditions, surety bond capacity has decreased and some providers are requesting credit enhancements in order to maintain existing or to issue new bonds. If we are required to provide credit enhancements with respect to our current or future bonds our liquidity could be negatively impacted. We may be unable to renew or extend our outstanding debt instruments when they mature. We have a significant amount of debt. Our $900 million senior credit facility which, as of December 31, 2007, had borrowings outstanding of $90.0 million, matures in May 2011. In addition, we have an aggregate of approximately $1.6 billion in senior and senior subordinated notes and term loans that mature between 2008 and 2015. There can be no assurance that we will be able to extend or renew these debt arrangements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to renew or extend these debt arrangements, it could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources and financial condition. We have been unable to maintain compliance with the financial covenants contained in our debt instruments. Our revolving credit facility, term loans and the indentures for our outstanding notes impose restrictions on our operations and activities, limit the amount we can borrow under the revolving credit facility and from other sources (including through unconsolidated joint ventures), and require us to comply with various financial 11 Table of Contents covenants. The financial covenants contained in the indentures for our outstanding notes require that the Company either stay below a maximum leverage ratio or maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio in order to be permitted to incur additional indebtedness. The financial covenants in our revolving credit facility and term loans, include a minimum net worth requirement, a leverage limitation, a maximum ratio of unsold land to net worth, a minimum interest coverage ratio and a borrowing base covenant. Certain of these financial ratios and limitations are being negatively impacted by current market conditions. As a result of deteriorating market conditions, we have incurred (including discontinued operations) pretax inventory, joint venture and goodwill impairments, land deposit write-offs and pre-acquisition costs of $1,092.7 million, $370.6 million, and $2.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We may incur additional inventory impairments going forward until our markets stabilize. During such time, we also may have to write down goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions, write down our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, make unanticipated cash contributions to joint ventures, and write off option deposits and pre-acquisition costs, putting further pressure on our financial and other covenants. We are currently out of compliance with the consolidated tangible net worth covenant contained in our revolving credit facility and term loans and are operating under a waiver which expires on March 31, 2008. While we are in discussions with our bank group to amend our revolving credit facility and term loan financial covenants to provide us with greater flexibility, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such an amendment, that we will be able to maintain compliance with the covenants if amended, or that we will be able to maintain compliance with the financial covenants contained in our outstanding notes. If we are unable to comply with any one or more of these financial covenants, and are unable to obtain a waiver for the noncompliance, we could be precluded from incurring additional borrowings and our obligation to repay indebtedness outstanding under the facility, our term loans, and our outstanding note indentures could be accelerated in full. We can give no assurance that in such an event, we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to pay all debt we are required to repay. The market value and availability of land may fluctuate significantly, which could decrease the value of our developed and undeveloped land holdings and limit our ability to develop new communities. The risk of owning developed and undeveloped land can be substantial for homebuilders. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions, such as the conditions we are currently experiencing which have resulted in impairments of a number of our land positions and write-offs of certain of our land option deposits and preacquisition costs. If current market conditions continue to deteriorate, our competition adjusts their pricing strategy or if other significant adverse changes in economic or market conditions occur, we may have to impair additional land holdings and work in progress, write down or write off goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions, write down our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, write off option deposits and preacquisition costs, sell homes or land at a loss, and/or hold land or homes in inventory longer than planned. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant, particularly if inventory must be held for longer than planned, which can trigger asset impairments in a poorly performing project or market. While not a significant issue under current market conditions, our long term success also depends in part upon the continued availability of suitable land at acceptable prices. The availability of land for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the risk of competitive over-bidding of land prices and restrictive governmental regulation. Should suitable land opportunities become less available, it could limit our ability to develop new communities, increase land costs and negatively impact our sales and earnings. 12 Table of Contents We may need additional funds, and if we are unable to obtain these funds, we may not be able to operate our business as planned. Our operations, including our joint venture operations, require significant amounts of cash. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or by borrowing more money, to fund our operations and inventory or repay our indebtedness, particularly in the event of a continued market downturn. Although we currently have availability under our revolving credit facility, this facility and our term loans contain a borrowing base provision and financial covenants that limit the amount we can borrow under the revolving credit facility or from other sources. Moreover, the indentures for our outstanding notes contain provisions that may restrict the debt we may incur in the future. Our revolving credit facility, term loans and the indentures for our outstanding notes also limit our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, which limits our use of joint ventures as financing vehicles. The availability of additional capital, whether from private capital sources (including banks) or the public capital markets, fluctuates as market conditions change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we may not be able to access capital from these sources. In addition, a weakening of our financial condition or strength, including in particular a material increase in our leverage, a decrease in our profitability, or a decrease in our interest coverage ratio, consolidated tangible net worth or borrowing base, could result in a credit ratings downgrade or changes in outlook, otherwise increase our cost of borrowing, or adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds. During 2007 and early 2008, the three credit rating agencies downgraded our corporate and debt ratings and/or changed their outlook to negative due to deterioration in our financial condition coupled with the wide-spread decline in the general homebuilding market. It is possible that additional downgrades could occur if our financial condition deteriorates further and/or the outlook for the homebuilding industry declines further. Even if available, additional financing could be costly or have adverse consequences. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of stock, dilution to stockholders will result. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we will incur increased debt servicing costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We can give no assurance as to the terms or availability of additional capital. If we are not successful in obtaining sufficient capital, it could adversely impact our ability to operate our business effectively, which could reduce our sales and earnings and adversely impact our financial position. We currently have significant amounts invested in unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we have less than a controlling interest. These investments are highly illiquid and have significant risks. We participate in numerous unconsolidated homebuilding and land development joint ventures with independent third parties in which we have less than a controlling interest. Our participation in these types of joint ventures has increased over time and will likely continue to represent a meaningful portion of our business. At December 31, 2007, we had invested an aggregate of $294.0 million in these joint ventures, which had borrowings outstanding of approximately $771.0 million, as compared to $301.6 million and $1,256.4 million at December 31, 2006, respectively. While these joint ventures provide us with a means of accessing larger land parcels and lot positions while managing our risk profile, they are subject to a number of risks including the following: • Entitlement Risk. Certain of our joint ventures acquire parcels of unentitled raw land. If we are unable to timely obtain entitlements at a reasonable cost, project delay or even project termination may occur resulting in an impairment of the value of our investment. • Development Risk. The projects we build through joint ventures are often larger and have a longer time horizon than the typical project developed by our wholly-owned homebuilding operations. Time delays associated with obtaining entitlements, unforeseen development issues, unanticipated labor and 13 Table of Contents material cost increases, and general market deterioration are more likely to impact larger, long-term projects, all of which may negatively impact the profitability of these ventures and our proportionate share of income. • Financing Risk. There are a limited number of sources willing to provide acquisition, development and construction financing to land development and homebuilding joint ventures. As the use of joint venture arrangements by us and our competitors increases and as market conditions become more challenging, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain financing for our joint ventures on commercially reasonable terms, or to refinance existing borrowings as such borrowings mature. • Contribution Risk. Under credit enhancements that we typically provide with respect to joint venture borrowings, we and our partners could be required to make additional investments in these joint ventures, either in the form of capital contributions or loan repayments, to reduce such outstanding borrowings. In addition, we may have to make additional contributions that exceed our proportional share of capital if our partners fail to contribute. • Completion Risk. We often sign a completion agreement in connection with obtaining financing for our joint ventures. Under such agreements, we may be compelled to complete a project even if we no longer have an economic interest in the property. • Illiquid Investment Risk. We lack a controlling interest in our joint ventures and therefore are generally unable to compel our joint ventures to sell assets, return invested capital, require additional capital contributions or take any other action without the vote of at least one or more of our venture partners. This means that, absent partner agreement, we will be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. • Partner Dispute. If we have a dispute with one of our joint venture partners and are unable to resolve it, the buy-sell provision in the applicable joint venture agreement could be triggered or we may otherwise pursue a negotiated settlement involving the unwinding of the venture. In either case, we may sell our interest to our partner or purchase our partner’s interest. If we sell our interest, we will forgo the profit we would have otherwise earned with respect to the joint venture project and may be required to forfeit our invested capital and/or pay our partner to release us from our joint venture obligations. If we are required to purchase our partner’s interest, we will be required to fund this purchase, as well as the completion of the project, with corporate level capital and to consolidate the joint venture project onto our balance sheet, which could, among other things, adversely impact our liquidity and our leverage. • Consolidation Risk. The accounting rules for joint ventures are complex and the decision as to whether it is proper to consolidate a joint venture onto our balance sheet is fact intensive. If the facts concerning an unconsolidated joint venture were to change and a triggering event under applicable accounting rules were to occur, we might be required to consolidate previously unconsolidated joint ventures onto our balance sheet which could adversely impact our leverage. We may not be able to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions which could harm our profitability and divert management resources. We may from time to time acquire other homebuilders. Successful acquisitions require us to correctly identify appropriate acquisition candidates and to integrate acquired operations and management with our own. Should we make an error in judgment when identifying an acquisition candidate, should the acquired operations not perform as anticipated, or should we fail to successfully integrate acquired operations and management, we will likely fail to realize the benefits we intended to derive from the acquisition and may suffer other adverse consequences. Acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including the diversion of the attention of our management and corporate staff from operating our existing business and potential charges to earnings in the event of any write-down or write-off of goodwill and other assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify, complete and integrate strategic acquisitions. 14 Table of Contents We are dependent on the services of key employees and the loss of any of these individuals or an inability to hire additional personnel could adversely effect us. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain skilled employees, including senior level personnel with significant management and leadership skills. Competition for the services of these individuals in most of our operating markets is intense. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees, we may be unable to accomplish the objectives set forth in our business plan. The convertible note hedge may affect the value of our common stock. In connection with the offering of our 6% convertible notes due 2012, we entered into a convertible note hedge transaction. This transaction is intended to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the convertible notes. The hedge counterparty will likely modify its hedge position from time to time by entering into or unwinding various derivative transactions and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (including during any settlement period in respect of any conversion of the convertible notes). The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The effect of the issuance of our shares of common stock pursuant to the share lending agreement, which issuance was made to facilitate transactions by which investors in our 6% convertible notes could hedge their investments in such notes, may be to lower the market price of our common stock. The existence of the share lending facility and the short positions established in connection with the sale of our 6% convertible notes due 2012 could have the effect of causing the market price of our common stock to be lower over the term of the share lending facility than it would have been had we not entered into the facility. In addition, the share borrower has informed us that it intends to use the short position created by the share loan to facilitate transactions by which investors in our convertible notes may hedge their investments in such notes through short sales or privately negotiated transactions. The market price of our common stock could be further negatively affected by these or other short sales of our common stock. We depend on the California market and, to a lesser extent, the Arizona and Florida markets. An adverse change in any or all of these markets could harm our sales and earnings. Although we have increased our geographic diversification in recent years, we still generate a significant amount of our revenues and profits in California. In addition, a significant portion of our business, revenues and profits outside of California is concentrated in Arizona and Florida. Demand for new homes, and in some instances home prices, have recently been declining in California, Arizona and Florida, negatively impacting our earnings and financial position. There can be no assurance that our earnings and financial position will not be further impacted if the challenging conditions in these markets continue or worsen. States, cities and counties in which we operate may adopt slow growth initiatives reducing our ability or increasing our costs to build in these areas, which could harm our future sales and earnings. Several states, cities and counties in which we operate have in the past approved, or approved for inclusion on their ballot, various “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of slow or no growth measures would reduce our ability to open new home communities and to build and sell homes in the affected markets, including with respect to land we may already own, and would create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could harm our future sales and earnings. 15 Table of Contents The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and, with more limited resources than some of our competitors, we may not be able to compete effectively. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous other residential construction firms, including large national and regional firms, for customers, land, financing, raw materials, skilled labor and employees. We compete for customers primarily on the basis of the location, design, quality and price of our homes and the availability of mortgage financing. Some of our competitors have substantially larger operations and greater financial resources than we do, and as a result may have lower costs of capital, labor and materials than us, and may be able to compete more effectively for land acquisition opportunities. As a result of an ongoing consolidation trend in the industry, some of these competitors may continue to grow significantly in size. Under current market conditions, we have experienced intense price competition as many builders seek to aggressively reduce their inventory levels and land holdings. Many of our competitors are better capitalized and have lower leverage than we do, which may position them to compete more effectively on price (which can trigger impairments) and better enable them to ride out the current industry-wide downturn. The design and construction of high density urban homebuilding projects present unique challenges, and we have less experience in this business. In recent years we have expanded our homebuilding business to include high-density urban infill projects. Such projects present challenges in development, construction, and marketing that are different than our traditional operations and we have less experience designing, constructing and selling these types of projects. Our inexperience could harm us, causing our overall results of operations to be adversely affected. Labor and material shortages could delay or increase the cost of home construction and reduce our sales and earnings. The residential construction industry experiences serious labor and material shortages from time to time, including shortages in qualified trades people, and supplies of insulation, drywall, cement, steel and lumber. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods where the regions in which we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. From time to time, we have experienced volatile price swings in the cost of labor and materials, including in particular the cost of lumber, cement, steel and drywall. Shortages and price increases could cause delays in and increase our costs of home construction, which in turn could harm our operating results. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters may disrupt or delay construction. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters, such as earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged rain or snow, and wildfires can negatively affect our operations by requiring us to delay or halt construction or to perform potentially costly repairs to our projects under construction and to unsold homes. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can increase costs and reduce profitability. Our homebuilding operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, including environmental, building, worker health and safety, zoning and land use regulation. This regulation affects all aspects of the homebuilding process and can substantially delay or increase the costs of homebuilding activities, even on land for which we already have approvals. During the development process, we must obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities that regulate matters such as: • permitted land uses, levels of density and architectural designs; 16 Table of Contents • the installation of utility services, such as water and waste disposal; • the dedication of acreage for open space, parks, schools and other community services; and • the preservation of habitat for endangered species and wetlands. The approval process can be lengthy, can be opposed by consumer or environmental groups, and can cause significant delays or permanently halt the development process. Delays or a permanent halt in the development process can cause substantial increases to development costs or cause us to abandon the project and to sell the affected land at a potential loss, which in turn could harm our operating results. In addition, new housing developments, including in California where a significant portion of our business is conducted, are often subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, highways and other public improvements. The costs of these assessments can be substantial and can cause increases in the effective prices of our homes, which in turn could reduce our sales, and/or profitability. Our mortgage operations are also subject to federal, state, and local regulation, including eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and various consumer protection laws. Our title insurance agency operations are subject to applicable insurance laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can lead to administrative enforcement actions, the loss of required licenses and other required approvals, claims for monetary damages or demands for loan repurchase from investors, and rescission or voiding of the loan by the consumer. Our mortgage subsidiary may become obligated to repurchase loans it has sold in the secondary mortgage market or may become subject to borrower lawsuits. While our mortgage subsidiary generally sells the loans it originates within a short period of time in the secondary mortgage market on a non-recourse basis, this sale is subject to an obligation to repurchase the loan if, among other things, the borrower defaults on the loan within a specified period following the sale, the purchaser’s underwriting guidelines are not met, or there is fraud in connection with the loan. While, as of December 31, 2007, our mortgage subsidiary had been required to repurchase only 0.04% and 0.35% of the total dollar value of the loans it originated in 2007 and 2006, respectively, as loan defaults in general increase it is possible that our mortgage subsidiary will be required to make a materially higher level of repurchases in the future. In addition, a number of homebuyers have initiated lawsuits against builders and lenders claiming, among other things, that builders pressured the homebuyers to make inaccurate statements on loan applications and/or that the lenders failed to correctly explain the terms of adjustable rate and interest only loans. A number of regulatory authorities have also indicated that they are investigating similar allegations. While we and our mortgage subsidiary have not experienced such lawsuits and are not, to our knowledge, the subject of any such investigations, as loan defaults increase the possibility of becoming subject to such a lawsuit or investigation becomes more likely. If our mortgage subsidiary experiences a higher level of repurchase obligations or we or our mortgage subsidiary become the subject of borrower lawsuits or regulatory authority action our financial results may be negatively impacted. We are subject to product liability and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which can be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. While we maintain product liability insurance and generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for liabilities arising from their work, there can be no assurance that these insurance rights and indemnities will be adequate to cover all construction defect and warranty claims for which we may be liable. For example, contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we are often responsible for applicable self-insured retentions (particularly in markets where we include our subcontractors on our general liability insurance), certain claims 17 Table of Contents may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits, and one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent. Additionally, the coverage offered by and availability of product liability insurance for construction defects is limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 