ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties to which we are or may become subject. These risks and uncertainties have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. Adverse changes in general and local economic conditions have affected and may continue to affect the demand for homes and reduce our earnings. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing and interest rate levels. The recent declines in the value of homes, disruption in the credit markets, increase in unemployment levels, absence of home price stability, announcement of a national recession, decreased availability of financing and higher interest rates on certain mortgage products have, among other factors, resulted in falling consumer confidence, and adversely impacted the homebuilding industry and our operations and financial condition. These conditions may continue or worsen. We can provide no assurance that our strategies to address these challenges will be successful. Customers may be unwilling or unable to purchase our homes at times when mortgage-financing costs are high or when credit is difficult to obtain. The majority of our homebuyers finance their purchases through our financial services operations or third-party lenders. In general, housing demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and by decreases in the availability of mortgage financing as a result of declining customer credit quality, tightening of mortgage loan underwriting standards, or 5 Table of Contents other issues. Many lenders have significantly tightened their underwriting standards, are requiring substantial down payments, and have eliminated or significantly limited many subprime and other alternative mortgage products, including “jumbo” loan products, which are important to sales in many of our California markets. In addition, the use of seller funded down payment assistance programs was prohibited in late 2008. As a result of these trends, the ability and willingness of prospective buyers to finance home purchases or to sell their existing homes has been adversely affected, which has adversely affected our operating results. These conditions may continue or worsen. We are experiencing a significant and substantial downturn in homebuyer demand. Continuation of this downturn may result in a continuing reduction in our revenues and deterioration of our margins. We are experiencing a significant and substantial downturn in homebuyer demand. Prior to this downturn, we experienced strong price appreciation in many of our markets. This price appreciation has resulted in the decreased affordability of new homes in many of our markets. If buyers are unable to afford new homes in these markets, prices will continue to decline, which will continue to harm both our revenues and margins. In addition, many of our competitors are aggressively liquidating land and new home inventories by selling homes at significantly reduced prices. At the same time we are also competing with the resale of existing homes, rental homes, and “almost new” homes owned by speculators seeking to exit the market. An increase in the number of mortgage loan defaults has also increased the supply of homes available for sale at reduced prices. All of these actions have resulted in a meaningful increase in the supply of homes available for sale, which may continue or increase, making it more difficult for us to sell our homes and to maintain our profit margins. We may be unable to obtain suitable bonding for the development of our communities. We provide bonds to governmental authorities and others to ensure the completion of our projects. If we are unable to provide required surety bonds for our projects, our business operations and revenues could be adversely affected. As a result of the recent deterioration in market conditions, surety providers have become increasingly reluctant to issue new bonds and some providers are requesting credit enhancements in order to maintain existing bonds or to issue new bonds. If we are unable to obtain required bonds in the future, or are required to provide credit enhancements with respect to our current or future bonds, our liquidity could be negatively impacted. We may be unable to repay, renew or extend our outstanding debt instruments when they are due. We have a significant amount of debt. Our revolving credit facility which, as of December 31, 2008, had borrowings outstanding of $47.5 million, matures in May 2011. In addition, we have an aggregate of approximately $1,354.0 million in senior notes, senior subordinated notes and term loans that mature between 2009 and 2015. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repay these debt arrangements or extend or renew them on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we are unable to repay, renew or extend these debt arrangements, it could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources and financial condition. We may be unable to maintain compliance with the covenants or meet certain financial ratios that must be satisfied as conditions to incurring additional indebtedness or making restricted payments contained in our debt instruments. Our revolving credit facility, term loans and the indentures for our outstanding notes impose restrictions on our operations, financing, investments and other activities, as well as limiting dividends and distributions on our stock. The indentures for our outstanding notes provide that the Company must either stay below a maximum leverage ratio or maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio in order to be permitted to incur additional indebtedness beyond limited categories of indebtedness specified in the indentures. The indentures also provide that, in order to make restricted payments (including dividends and distributions on stock or investments beyond limited categories of investments specified in the indentures), the Company must satisfy the ratio requirements for incurrence of additional debt and generate (by a formula based on 50% of consolidated net income) a basket for such additional restricted payments. As of December 31, 2008, we did not satisfy the leverage condition or the interest coverage condition to enable us to make restricted payments. As a result, we were unable to make restricted payments, other than through funds available from our unrestricted subsidiaries, which was $513.2 million as of December 31, 2008. Our amended revolving credit facility contains a cash flow coverage covenant requiring the Company to maintain either a minimum ratio of cash flow from operations to consolidated homebuilding interest incurred or a minimum interest reserve and also prohibits, subject to various exceptions, the repurchase of capital stock, payment of dividends, the making of investments and the incurrence and early repayment of debt. As of December 31, 2008, we did not 6 Table of Contents meet the minimum cash flow coverage ratio and, as a result, we were required to establish a minimum interest reserve. In March 2009 one of our unrestricted subsidiaries deposited approximately $120.8 million of cash in a deposit account with our agent bank for this purpose. In addition, future borrowings under our amended revolving credit facility will be required to be secured by available collateral. There can be no assurance that we will meet the covenants or financial ratios, as applicable, in our revolving credit facility, term loans and the indentures for our outstanding notes if slowing market conditions continue or worsen. If we are unable to comply with or meet any one or more of these covenants or financial ratios, as applicable, we could be precluded from incurring additional borrowings, subject to certain limitations, and, in the event of default, our obligation to repay indebtedness outstanding under the facility, our term loans, and our outstanding note indentures could be accelerated in full. We can give no assurance that in such an event, we would have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to pay all debt we are required to repay. The market value and availability of land may fluctuate significantly, which could decrease the value of our developed and undeveloped land holdings and limit our ability to develop new communities. The risk of owning developed and undeveloped land can be substantial for homebuilders. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions, such as the conditions we are currently experiencing, which have resulted in impairments of a number of our land positions and write-offs of certain of our land option deposits and pre-acquisition costs. If current market conditions continue to deteriorate, our competition adjust their pricing strategy or if other significant adverse changes in economic or market conditions occur, we may have to impair additional land holdings and works in progress, write down our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, write off option deposits and pre-acquisition costs, sell homes or land at a loss, and/or hold land or homes in inventory longer than planned. In addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant, particularly if inventory must be held for longer than planned, which can trigger asset impairments in a poorly performing project or market. While not a significant issue under current market conditions, our long-term success also depends in part upon the continued availability of suitable land at acceptable prices. The availability of land for purchase at favorable prices depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the risk of competitive over-bidding of land prices and restrictive governmental regulation. Should suitable land opportunities become less available, it could limit our ability to develop new communities, increase land costs and negatively impact our sales and earnings. We may need additional funds, and if we are unable to obtain these funds, we may not be able to operate our business as planned. Our operations, including our joint venture operations, require significant amounts of cash. We may be required to seek additional capital, whether from sales of equity or by borrowing more money, to fund our operations and inventory or repay our indebtedness, particularly in the event of a continued market downturn. Although we currently have availability under our revolving credit facility, this facility, our term loans and our indentures contain provisions that limit the amount we can borrow under the revolving credit facility or from other sources. Our requirements for additional capital, whether to finance activities or refinance existing obligations, fluctuate as market conditions and our financial performance and operations change. The availability of additional capital, whether from private capital sources (including banks) or the public capital markets, fluctuates as our financial condition and market conditions in general change. There may be times when the private capital markets and the public debt or equity markets lack sufficient liquidity or when our securities cannot be sold at attractive prices, in which case we would not be able to access capital from these sources. In addition, a weakening of our financial condition or deterioration in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to obtain necessary funds. Even if available, additional financing could be costly or have adverse consequences. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of stock, dilution to stockholders will result, particularly in light of recent decreases in our stock price. In addition, our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors to issue new series of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. If any such series were created, depending on the rights and terms of any new series created, and the reaction of the market to the series, the rights or the value of our common stock could be negatively affected. If additional funds are raised through the incurrence of debt, we will incur increased debt servicing costs and may become subject to additional restrictive financial and other covenants. We can give no assurance as to the terms or 7 Table of Contents availability of additional capital. If we are not successful in obtaining or refinancing capital when needed, it could adversely impact our ability to operate our business effectively, which could reduce our sales and earnings, and adversely impact our financial position. We currently have significant amounts invested in unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we have less than a controlling interest. These investments are highly illiquid and have significant risks. We participate in numerous unconsolidated homebuilding and land development joint ventures with independent third parties in which we have less than a controlling interest. At December 31, 2008, we had invested an aggregate of $50.5 million in these joint ventures, which had borrowings outstanding of approximately $421.8 million, as compared to $294.0 million and $771.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2007. While these joint ventures provide us with a means of accessing larger land parcels and lot positions, they are subject to a number of risks, including the following: · Restricted Payment Risk. Our public note indentures prohibit us from making restricted payments, including investments in joint ventures, when we are unable to meet either of a leverage condition or an interest coverage condition and when making such a payment will cause us to exceed a basket limitation. As of December 31, 2008, we did not satisfy the leverage condition or the interest coverage condition. As a result, we are unable to make payments to satisfy our joint venture obligations, other than through funds available from our unrestricted subsidiaries. If we become unable to fund our joint venture obligations this could result in, among other things, defaults under our joint venture operating agreements, loan agreements, and credit enhancements. · Entitlement Risk. Certain of our joint ventures acquire parcels of unentitled raw land. If we are unable to timely obtain entitlements at a reasonable cost, project delay or even project termination may occur resulting in an impairment of the value of our investment. · Development Risk. The projects we build through joint ventures are often larger and have a longer time horizon than the typical project developed by our wholly-owned homebuilding operations. Time delays associated with obtaining entitlements, unforeseen development issues, unanticipated labor and material cost increases, and general market deterioration and other changes are more likely to impact larger, long-term projects, all of which may negatively impact the profitability of these ventures and our proportionate share of income. · Financing Risk. There are a limited number of sources willing to provide acquisition, development and construction financing to land development and homebuilding joint ventures. As market conditions become more challenging, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain financing for our joint ventures on commercially reasonable terms, or to refinance existing borrowings as such borrowings mature. As a result, we may be required to finance acquisition and development and/or construction costs following termination or step-down of joint venture financing that the joint venture is unable to restructure, extend, or refinance with another third party lender. · Contribution Risk. Under credit enhancements that we typically provide with respect to joint venture borrowings, we and our partners could be required to make additional unanticipated investments in these joint ventures, either in the form of capital contributions or loan repayments, to reduce such outstanding borrowings. We may have to make additional contributions that exceed our proportional share of capital if our partners fail to contribute any or all of their share. While in most instances we would be able to exercise remedies available under the applicable joint venture documentation if a partner fails to contribute its proportional share of capital, our partner’s financial condition may preclude any meaningful cash recovery on the obligation. · Completion Risk. We often sign a completion agreement in connection with obtaining financing for our joint ventures. Under such agreements, we may be compelled to complete a project even if we no longer have an economic interest in the property. · Illiquid Investment Risk. We lack a controlling interest in our joint ventures and therefore are generally unable to compel our joint ventures to sell assets, return invested capital, require additional capital contributions or take any other action without the vote of at least one or more of our venture partners. This means that, absent partner agreement, we will be unable to liquidate our joint venture investments to generate cash. 8 Table of Contents · Partner Dispute. If we have a dispute with one of our joint venture partners and are unable to resolve it, the buy-sell provision in the applicable joint venture agreement could be triggered or we may otherwise pursue a negotiated settlement involving the unwinding of the venture. In either case, we may sell our interest to our partner or purchase our partner’s interest. If we sell our interest, we will forgo the profit we would have otherwise earned with respect to the joint venture project and may be required to forfeit our invested capital and/or pay our partner to release us from our joint venture obligations. If we are required to purchase our partner’s interest, we will be required to fund this purchase, as well as the completion of the project, with corporate level capital and to consolidate the joint venture project onto our balance sheet, which could, among other things, adversely impact our liquidity, our leverage and other financial conditions or covenants. · Consolidation Risk. The accounting rules for joint ventures are complex and the decision as to whether it is proper to consolidate a joint venture onto our balance sheet is fact intensive. If the facts concerning an unconsolidated joint venture were to change and a triggering event under applicable accounting rules were to occur, we might be required to consolidate previously unconsolidated joint ventures onto our balance sheet which could adversely impact our leverage and other financial conditions or covenants. We may not be able to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, which could harm our profitability and divert management resources. We may from time to time acquire other homebuilders. Successful acquisitions require us to correctly identify appropriate acquisition candidates and to integrate acquired operations and management with our own. Should we make an error in judgment when identifying an acquisition candidate, should the acquired operations not perform as anticipated, or should we fail to successfully integrate acquired operations and management, we will likely fail to realize the benefits we intended to derive from the acquisition and may suffer other adverse consequences. Acquisitions involve a number of other risks, including the diversion of the attention of our management and corporate staff from operating our existing business and potential charges to earnings in the event of any write-down or write-off of goodwill and other assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions. We depend on the California market and, to a lesser extent, the Arizona and Florida markets. An adverse change in any or all of these markets could harm our sales and earnings. We generate a significant amount of our revenues and profits in California. In addition, a significant portion of our business, revenues and profits outside of California are concentrated in Arizona and Florida. While demand for new homes, and in many instances home prices, have been declining in substantially all of our markets, demand and home prices have generally been declining more rapidly in California, Arizona and Florida, negatively impacting our earnings and financial position. There can be no assurance that our earnings and financial position will not be further impacted if the challenging conditions in these markets continue or worsen. States, cities and counties in which we operate may adopt slow growth initiatives reducing our ability or increasing our costs to build in these areas, which could harm our future sales and earnings. Several states, cities and counties in which we operate have in the past approved, or approved for inclusion on their ballot, various “slow growth” or “no growth” initiatives and other ballot measures that could negatively impact the availability of land and building opportunities within those localities. Approval of slow or no growth measures would reduce our ability to open new home communities and to build and sell homes in the affected markets, including with respect to land we may already own, and would create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could harm our future sales and earnings. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive and, with more limited resources than some of our competitors, we may not be able to compete effectively. The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous other residential construction firms, including large national and regional firms, for customers, land, financing, raw materials, skilled labor and employees. We compete for customers primarily on the basis of the location, design, quality and price of our homes and the availability of mortgage financing. Some of our competitors have substantially larger operations and greater financial resources than we do and as a result may have lower costs of capital, labor and materials than us, and may be able to compete more effectively for land acquisition opportunities. 9 Table of Contents Under current market conditions, we have experienced intense price competition as many builders seek to aggressively reduce their inventory levels and land holdings. Many of our competitors are better capitalized and have lower leverage than we do, which may position them to compete more effectively on price (which can trigger impairments for us), better enable them to ride out the current industry-wide downturn and allow them to compete more effectively for land when conditions improve. The design and construction of high density urban homebuilding projects present unique challenges, and we have less experience in this business. In recent years we have expanded our homebuilding business to include high-density urban infill projects. Such projects present challenges in development, construction, and marketing that are different than our traditional operations and we have less experience designing, constructing and selling these types of projects. Our inexperience could harm us, causing our overall results of operations to be adversely affected. Labor and material shortages could delay or increase the cost of home construction and reduce our sales and earnings. The residential construction industry experiences serious labor and material shortages from time to time, including shortages in qualified tradespeople, and supplies of insulation, drywall, cement, steel and lumber. These labor and material shortages can be more severe during periods of strong demand for housing or during periods where the regions in which we operate experience natural disasters that have a significant impact on existing residential and commercial structures. From time to time, we have experienced volatile price swings in the cost of labor and materials, including in particular the cost of lumber, cement, steel and drywall. Shortages and price increases could cause delays in and increase our costs of home construction, which in turn could harm our operating results. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters may disrupt or delay construction. Severe weather and other natural conditions or disasters, such as earthquakes, landslides, hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts, floods, heavy or prolonged rain or snow, and wildfires can negatively affect our operations by requiring us to delay or halt construction or to perform potentially costly repairs to our projects under construction and to unsold homes. We are subject to extensive government regulation, which can increase costs and reduce profitability. Our homebuilding operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, including environmental, building, worker health and safety, zoning and land use regulation. This regulation affects all aspects of the homebuilding process and can substantially delay or increase the costs of homebuilding activities, even on land for which we already have approvals. During the development process, we must obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities that regulate matters such as: · permitted land uses, levels of density and architectural designs; · the installation of utility services, such as water and waste disposal; · the dedication of acreage for open space, parks, schools and other community services; and · the preservation of habitat for endangered species and wetlands. The approval process can be lengthy, can be opposed by consumer or environmental groups, and can cause significant delays or permanently halt the development process. Delays or a permanent halt in the development process can cause substantial increases to development costs or cause us to abandon the project and to sell the affected land at a potential loss, which in turn could harm our operating results. In addition, new housing developments, including in California where a significant portion of our business is conducted, are often subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets, highways and other public improvements. The costs of these assessments can be substantial and can cause increases in the effective prices of our homes, which in turn could reduce our sales and/or profitability. 10 Table of Contents Our mortgage operations are also subject to federal, state, and local regulation, including eligibility requirements for participation in federal loan programs and various consumer protection laws. Our title insurance agency operations are subject to applicable insurance laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements can lead to administrative enforcement actions, the loss of required licenses and other required approvals, claims for monetary damages or demands for loan repurchase from investors, and rescission or voiding of the loan by the consumer. Our mortgage subsidiary may become obligated to repurchase loans it has sold in the secondary mortgage market or may become subject to borrower lawsuits. While our mortgage subsidiary generally sells the loans it originates within a short period of time in the secondary mortgage market on a non-recourse basis, this sale is subject to an obligation to repurchase the loan if, among other things, the borrower defaults on the loan within a specified period following the sale, the purchaser’s underwriting guidelines are not met, or there is fraud in connection with the loan. While, as of December 31, 2008, our mortgage subsidiary had been required to repurchase only 0.05% and 0.04% of the total dollar value of the loans it originated in 2008 and 2007, respectively, as loan defaults in general increase it is possible that our mortgage subsidiary will be required to make a materially higher level of repurchases in the future. In addition, a number of homebuyers have initiated lawsuits against builders and lenders claiming, among other things, that builders pressured the homebuyers to make inaccurate statements on loan applications and/or that the lenders failed to correctly explain the terms of adjustable rate and interest-only loans. A number of regulatory authorities have also indicated that they are investigating similar allegations. While we and our mortgage subsidiary have not experienced such lawsuits and are not, to our knowledge, the subject of any such investigations, as loan defaults increase the possibility of becoming subject to such a lawsuit or investigation becomes more likely. If our mortgage subsidiary experiences a higher level of repurchase obligations or we or our mortgage subsidiary become the subject of borrower lawsuits or regulatory authority action our financial results may be negatively impacted. We are subject to product liability and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business, which can be costly. As a homebuilder, we are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding industry and can be costly. While we maintain product liability insurance and generally seek to require our subcontractors and design professionals to indemnify us for liabilities arising from their work, there can be no assurance that these insurance rights and indemnities will be adequate to cover any or all construction defect and warranty claims for which we may be liable. For example, contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we are often responsible for applicable self-insured retentions (particularly in markets where we include our subcontractors on our general liability insurance), certain claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits, and one or more of our insurance carriers could become insolvent. Additionally, the coverage offered by and availability of product liability insurance for construction defects is limited and costly. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. We are dependent on the services of key employees and the loss of any substantial number of these individuals or an inability to hire additional personnel could adversely affect us. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain skilled employees, including personnel with significant management and leadership skills. Competition for the services of these individuals in many of our operating markets can be intense. If we are unable to attract and retain skilled employees, we may be unable to accomplish the objectives set forth in our business plan. Our principal stockholder has the ability to exercise significant influence over the composition of our Board of Directors and matters requiring stockholder approval. As of December 31, 2008, MP CA Homes LLC held 49% of the voting power of our voting stock. Pursuant to the stockholders' agreement that we entered into with MP CA Homes LLC on June 27, 2008, MP CA Homes LLC is entitled to designate a number of directors to serve on our Board of Directors as is proportionate to the total voting power of its voting stock (up to one less than a majority), and at least one MP CA Homes LLC designated director shall be a member of each committee of the board (subject to limited exceptions), giving MP CA Homes LLC the ability to exercise significant influence on the composition and actions of our board and its committees. In addition, this large voting block may have a significant or decisive effect on the approval or disapproval of matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including any amendment to our certificate of incorporation, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. The interests of MP CA Homes LLC in these other matters may not always coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. In addition, the ownership of such a large block of our voting power and the 11 Table of Contents right to designate directors by MP CA Homes LLC may discourage someone from making a significant equity investment in us, even if we needed the investment to operate our business, or could be a significant factor in delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that other stockholders may deem to be in their best interests, such as a transaction in which the other stockholders would receive a premium for their shares over their current trading prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 