Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Form 10-K. If any of the following events or outcomes actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. The Company has not had sustained profitable operations since 1997 and may need additional funding to continue operations. Since 1997, the Company has incurred losses from operations. In 2000 the Company refocused its business model based on product licensing agreements. While the Company anticipated that this change in its business has resulted in reduced operating losses, profitable operations have not been achieved. Although the Company’s current cash position and projected results of operations for the next twelve months are not expected to require additional outside financing, the Company must be successful in the next year with its licensing of its current technology and its new compounds ER 303 and ER 99. If these efforts are not successful the Company will need to secure additional financing opportunities. The Company may not be able to obtain such additional funding on commercia lly reasonable terms if such funding is required. The Company’s marketing strategy to solicit existing consumer product companies to license the compounds may not be successful. The Company may not be attract and retain an adequate license and royalty revenue base to achieve profitable operations. Consumer product companies may choose not to license or private label the Company’s products which could assist in differentiating their products and product lines from competitors. The Company may not be able to develop new patentable compounds. The Company’s success substantially depends upon developing and obtaining patents for new mood and sensory enhancing compounds. The Company requires that its products be scientifically tested validating the human responses to the compounds. The Company may not be successful in validating that the desired human responses or have the required funding to develop the compounds which have been identified. The Company may not be able to protect its technology or trade secrets from others who choose to violate the Company’s patents. The Company intends to protect and defend its patent rights from those who might violate them. However, the costs to defend and litigate may exceed the Company’s financial resources. The Company may not be able to recruit and retain key personnel. The Company’s success substantially depends upon recruiting and retaining key employees and consultants with research, product development and marketing experience. The Company may not be successful in recruiting and retaining these key people. The Company relies upon other companies to manufacture its products. The Company and its distributors/licensees rely upon other companies to manufacture its compounds, supply components, and to blend, fill and package its fragrance products. The Company and its distributors/licensees may not be able to obtain or retain compound manufacturers, fragrance suppliers, or component manufacturers on acceptable terms. This would adversely affect operating results. 8 