Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained in this Form 10-K. If any of the following events or outcomes actually occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. The Company requires additional funding to continue operations. The Company’s current cash position and projected results of operations for the next twelve months requires additional outside financing. Unless the Company raises additional funding by debt or equity issuances, asset sales or a significant increase in product and licensing revenues accompanied by reductions in corporate spending, the Company’s current cash on hand will be insufficient to cover its working capital requirements. The Company is actively working on securing the required funding and it is not known how successful those efforts might be. The Company may be unable to raise sufficient additional capital when we need it or to raise capital on favorable terms. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets and enter into covenants that could restrict certain business activities or our ability to incur future indebtedness and may contain other terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we are unable to obtain adequate funds on reasonable terms, we may be required to curtail operations, obtain funds by entering into financing agreements on unattractive terms, or enter a merger or acquisition agreement with another entity. The Company has not had sustained profitable operations. Since 1997, the Company has incurred losses from operations. In 2000 the Company refocused its business model based on product licensing agreements. Although the change to a licensing based business model has resulted in reduced operating losses, profitable operations have not been achieved. The Company has added additional licensees in recent years but has not achieved profitability. 8 The Company’s marketing strategy to solicit existing consumer product companies to license the compounds may not be successful. The Company may not be attract and retain an adequate license and royalty revenue base to achieve profitable operations. Consumer product companies may choose not to license or private label the Company’s compounds which could assist in differentiating their products and product lines from competitors. The success of the new compounds will require the licensees to invest in marketing the benefits of their products containing the Company compounds, and the Company can not control the licensees marketing efforts. The Company is dependent on a few major customers. The Company is reliant on a small number of consumer product companies who have embraced the Company’s compounds which provides a way to differentiate their products and product lines from competitors. If one or more of these licenses discontinues its products containing the Company’s compounds the resulting lack of revenues could have an adverse financial impact to the Company. The Company continues to market its compounds to Consumer product companies that may choose not to license or private label the Company’s products. The Company may not be able to develop new patentable compounds. The Company’s success substantially depends upon developing and obtaining patents for new mood and sensory enhancing compounds. The Company requires that its products be scientifically tested validating the human responses to the compounds. The Company may not be successful in validating that the desired human responses or have the required funding to develop the compounds which have been identified. The Company may not be able to protect its technology or trade secrets from others who choose to violate the Company’s patents. The Company intends to protect and defend its patent rights from those who might violate them. However, the costs to defend and litigate may exceed the Company’s financial resources. The Company may not be able to recruit and retain key personnel. The Company’s success substantially depends upon recruiting and retaining key employees and consultants with research, product development and marketing experience. The Company may not be successful in recruiting and retaining these key people. The Company relies upon other companies to manufacture its products. The Company and its distributors/licensees rely upon other companies to manufacture its compounds, supply components, and to blend, fill and package its fragrance products. The Company and its distributors/licensees may not be able to obtain or retain compound manufacturers, fragrance suppliers, or component manufacturers on acceptable terms. This would adversely affect operating results. 