ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We could experience significantly reduced revenues and profits if payers change, delay or deny reimbursement Nearly all of our revenues depend on the continued availability of reimbursement by government and private insurance plans. Any reduction in Medicare or other government program or private plan reimbursements currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. Certain significant reimbursement reductions that became effective January 1, 2005 under the Medicare Modernization Act are discussed in Item 1 of Part I “Reportable Segments.” Other future reimbursement reductions are possible. Without a corresponding reduction in the cost of such products, the result would be a reduction in our overall profit margin. Similarly, any increase in the cost of such products would reduce our overall profit margin unless there was a corresponding increase in reimbursement from Medicare, other government programs and private insurers. Our profits also could be affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare or other government program reimbursement or adjustments to previously reimbursed amounts. The government’s Medicare regulations are complex and sometimes subjective and therefore may require management’s interpretation. Overpayments by Medicare and others occur in the normal course of business and reserves are recorded when, based upon our assessment of the facts and circumstances, we believe that the amounts due to Medicare and others are probable and estimable. Our ability to navigate the challenges of the Medicare Prescription Drug Program could negatively impact our Pharmacy segment The Medicare Modernization Act provides for a voluntary prescription drug benefit, the Medicare Prescription Drug program, or “Part D”, which gives beneficiaries access to prescription drug coverage. The program involves many challenges and we will continue to closely monitor the business implications of Part D, the cost of coordinating Part D benefits for our Diabetes patients and their spouses, and the net revenue and earnings impact. While we are committed to investing in this long-term opportunity, the ultimate impact of such investment depends upon many factors, specifically upon our success in continuing to enroll new patients at the current rate, our ability to successfully adjudicate claims at profitable reimbursement rates and our ability to encourage patients’ compliance with their prescriptions. In addition, we presently are a participating pharmacy in approximately 94% of the 2,831 Prescription Drug Plans and approximately 83% of the 63,033 Medicare Advantage-Prescription Drug Plans that have been approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services under Part D through pharmacy networks administered by AmerisourceBergen Drug Corporation and Leader Drug Stores, Inc. While the “any willing pharmacy” provisions of the Medicare Modernization Act would allow us to contract directly with these plans, in the event we were no longer permitted to participate in these pharmacy networks, entering into individual contracts with those prescription drug plans of which our patients are members could be time-consuming and we could suffer patient attrition as a result. In addition, these individual contracts could be less profitable than our network pharmacy contracts. Certain prescription drug plans have excluded Liberty as a participating pharmacy in their plans, which we believe is a violation of the “any willing pharmacy” provisions of the Medicare Modernization Act. We are presently working to resolve these issues. Competitive bidding for durable medical equipment suppliers could negatively affect our Diabetes segment The Medicare Modernization Act further provides for a program for competitive bidding of certain durable medical equipment items, which includes diabetes testing supplies. Beginning April 1, 2008, diabetes testing supplies delivered by mail will be bid only in 10 competitive bid areas. CMS intends to expand the entire competitive bidding program and may specifically implement a national or regional mail order program for diabetes testing supplies in 2010 which could affect a substantial portion of our diabetes patient base. Only winning mail order diabetes testing supply bidders will be allowed to provide competitively bid items by mail to patients whose primary residence is in a competitively bid area. Competitive bidding could cause our operating results to be negatively affected through a combination of lower reimbursement rates for competitively bid items and/or our failure to secure status as a contracted supplier. CMS’s application of Inherent Reasonableness authority could negatively affect our Diabetes segment 11 Table of Contents The Medicare Modernization Act provides CMS additional inherent reasonableness authority, beginning in 2009, to use pricing information it gathers during the initial competitive bidding phases for the purposes of establishing reimbursement rates in geographic areas not subject to competitive bidding. CMS intends to issue further guidance on whether and then how it intends to use this authority through the formal rule making process. The application of inherent reasonableness could cause our operating results to be negatively affected if CMS uses this authority to impose lower reimbursement rates in geographic areas that would otherwise have been excluded from the impact of competitive bidding. We are subject to a corporate integrity agreement As part of the civil settlement with the DOJ and OIG, we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement on November 8, 2004. This agreement provides for an annual review of a sample of our Medicare claims by an independent review organization for a five-year period, which could be reduced to a shorter period at the discretion of the OIG, and obligates us to continue our compliance program and the measures we have implemented to promote our compliance with Medicare regulations. Should the financial error rate of the sample reviewed by the independent review organization for any given period, exceed the acceptable error rate, we could be subject to a potentially material overpayment assessment for that period. We are currently involved in litigation and could experience reduced net income if this litigation is not resolved in our favor PolyMedica and three former officers of PolyMedica are defendants in a lawsuit alleging violations of certain sections and rules of the Exchange Act, which was initiated in U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts in November 2000. PolyMedica believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims made against it in this action in which it is a defendant and intends to contest the claims vigorously. An unfavorable outcome could cause us to be liable for damages, which would reduce our net income in any such period. Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage for such damages. Please see Note J, Commitments and Contingencies, of our consolidated financial statements for a more complete description of this claim. The profitability of our segments will decrease if we do not receive recurring orders from patients The profitability of our segments depends in large part on recurring and sustained orders. We generally incur losses and negative cash flow with respect to the first order from a new patient, due primarily to the marketing and regulatory compliance costs associated with initial patient qualification. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control, including patient preferences for home delivery, compliance with their doctor’s orders and prescriptions, competitive price pressures, patient transition to extended care facilities and patient mortality. We could experience significantly reduced profits from our Diabetes segment if new technologies that reduce or eliminate the need for consumable testing supplies are developed for glucose monitoring The majority of our Diabetes net revenues are from consumable testing supplies used to draw and test small quantities of blood for the purpose of measuring and monitoring glucose levels. Numerous research efforts are underway to develop more convenient and less intrusive glucose measurement techniques. The commercialization and widespread acceptance of new technologies that eliminate or reduce the need for consumable testing supplies could negatively affect our Diabetes segment. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a materially adverse effect on our stock price We must continue to document, test and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual reports by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to management’s assessment and the effectiveness of the internal control. We have expended and expect that we will continue to expend significant time and resources documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting. While management’s evaluation as of March 31, 2007 resulted in the conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of that date, we cannot predict the outcome of testing in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is not able to render the required attestations, it could result in lost investor confidence in the accuracy, reliability and completeness of our financial reports. Any such events could have a materially adverse effect on our stock price. The market price of our common stock may experience substantial fluctuations for reasons over which we have little control Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate 12 Table of Contents substantially based on a variety of factors, including, among others: - fluctuations in our quarterly results; - announcements concerning us, our competitors, or manufacturers with whom we have relationships or the healthcare market; - overall volatility of the stock market; - changes in government regulations; - changes in the financial estimates we provide to the market or estimates by analysts; and - loss of key executives. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. These fluctuations, coupled with changes in our results of operations and general economic, political and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We plan to continue our expansion; if we do not manage our growth successfully, our growth and profitability may slow or stop The expansion of our operations has created significant demand on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources. Additional expansion in existing or new markets, including Part D, could strain these resources and increase our need for capital. Our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. Our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. As of March 31, 2007, we had $58.7 million in outstanding indebtedness under our revolving Credit Facility as well as $180 million of outstanding convertible debt. Our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions and capital and other expenditures. The Credit Facility limits the amount of indebtedness we may incur, requires us to maintain certain levels of net worth, leverage ratio and fixed charge ratio, and restricts our ability to materially alter the character of the business. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as interest rates. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. Geopolitical events may reduce our ability to obtain favorable advertising rates for our direct-response advertising efforts, which may increase our expenses and/or lead to a reduction in revenues The effectiveness of our direct-response advertising is subject to the risks arising from geopolitical events. For example, around the clock news coverage at the onset of the war in Iraq and the war on terrorism affected our ability to obtain favorable rates for our product advertisements and thus affected our ability to obtain new patients since we reduced our advertising. Such geopolitical events may in the foreseeable future have a negative impact on our results of operations by increasing our expenses and/or leading to a reduction in our revenues. We could experience a charge to earnings as a result of an impairment of our goodwill, direct-response advertising or other intangible assets We are required to perform impairment tests annually and whenever events or changes in circumstance suggest that the carrying value of goodwill, direct-response advertising or other intangible assets may not be recoverable. The valuation of our goodwill, direct-response advertising and other intangible assets is based upon the results of these impairment tests. Changes in assumptions used and forecasted results of operations for the reporting unit carrying goodwill, direct-response advertising or other intangible assets, could affect the quantification of an impairment value, should one exist. 13 Table of Contents Since our growth strategy may involve the acquisition of other companies, we may record additional goodwill in the future. The possible write-off of this goodwill could negatively impact our future earnings. We will also be required to allocate a portion of the purchase price of any acquisition to the value of non-competition agreements, patient base and contracts that are acquired. The amount allocated to these items could be amortized over a fairly short period. As a result, our earnings and the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. We could be liable for harm caused by products that we sell and may incur significant expenses in connection with the defense of any product liability claims The sale of medical products entails the risk that users will make product liability claims. If any such product liability claim is successful, we could be liable for a significant amount of damages. Even if we are ultimately successful on the merits of any such claim, we could incur significant expenses in connection with the defense of any such claim. Although we maintain reasonable levels of insurance, it may not provide adequate coverage for any such damages and/or expenses. We could lose patients and revenues to new or existing competitors Competition from other sellers of products offered through our Diabetes and Pharmacy segments, manufacturers of healthcare products, pharmaceutical companies and other competitors is intense and expected to increase. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are large companies with well-known names and substantial resources. These companies may develop products and services that are more effective or less expensive than any that we are developing or selling. They may also promote and market these products more successfully than we promote and market our products. Loss of use of data storage facilities could significantly reduce revenues and profits from our businesses We process and store most of our patient data in our facilities in Port St. Lucie, Florida. If we cannot use any of these facilities as a result of a United States Food and Drug Administration, Occupational Safety and Health Administration or other regulatory action, fire, natural disaster or other event, our revenues and profits would decrease significantly. For example, as a result of the disruption caused by the two hurricanes sustained by our Port St. Lucie based facilities in September 2004, excluding amounts that have been reimbursed to us under our property and casualty and business interruption insurance, we experienced reduced revenues of approximately $3.6 million and incurred losses in excess of $1.5 million. If we or our suppliers do not comply with applicable government regulations, we may be prohibited from selling our products or may incur fines and other expenses The majority of the products that we sell are regulated by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. If any of these agencies mandate a suspension of production or sales of our products or mandate a recall, we may lose sales and incur fines and other expenses until we are in compliance with the regulations or change to another acceptable supplier. Our quarterly revenues or operating results could vary, which may cause the market price of our securities to decline We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and anticipate that such fluctuations could continue. Results may vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including: - changes in reimbursement guidelines and amounts; - changes in regulations affecting the healthcare industry; - changes in suppliers; - the timing of patient orders; - the timing and cost of our advertising campaigns; - the timing of the introduction or acceptance of new products offered by us or our competitors; and - changes in the mix of our products; product costs are significantly influenced by the product brand chosen by the patients of our Diabetes segment. We provide a wide range of product brand choices to our patients, purchased at varying costs from 14 Table of Contents suppliers. Our ability to sustain current gross margin levels is dependent both on our ability to continue securing favorable pricing from suppliers and on the brand choices of our patients. A reduction in working capital, a change in our business or a decision to invest our capital differently could prevent us from paying dividends to shareholders A significant increase in our Credit Facility utilization, a change in our business or a decision to invest our capital differently could cause us to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends to shareholders. We may make acquisitions that will strain our financial and operational resources We regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses’ products and assets. Acquisitions involve a number of risks that might adversely affect our financial and operational resources, including: - diversion of the attention of senior management from important business matters; - amortization of substantial intangible assets; - difficulty in retaining key personnel of an acquired business; - lack of adequate internal control over financial reporting; - failure to assimilate operations of an acquired business; - possible operating losses and expenses of an acquired business; - exposure to legal claims for activities of an acquired business prior to acquisition; and - incurrence of debt and related interest expense. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to obtain the intended benefits of any of these potential acquisitions. We could also require substantial capital resources to acquire complementary products or businesses. We cannot be certain that existing or additional financing would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. A fundamental change and the provisions in the Notes related to the occurrence of a fundamental change may adversely affect us The holders of our 1.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes due September 15, 2011 (“Notes”) can require us to repurchase all or part of the Notes upon certain fundamental changes, including changes in control and turnover in our board of directors. If a fundamental change event occurs, we may not have enough funds to purchase all the Notes, which would cause a default under both the indenture governing the Notes and our Credit Facility. If a fundamental change occurs at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing or redeeming Notes, we could seek the consent of our lenders to redeem the Notes or could attempt to refinance this debt. If we do not obtain a consent, we could not purchase or redeem the Notes. Furthermore, the fundamental change provisions, under the indenture governing the Notes, which include a provision requiring additional shares of our common stock to be issued in connection with a fundamental change, may in certain circumstances make more difficult or discourage a takeover of our company and the removal of incumbent management. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into privately-negotiated convertible note hedge transactions with Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America, N.A., which are expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. At the same time, we entered into warrant transactions with Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America, N.A. with respect to our common stock pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock. In connection with hedging these transactions, Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America, N.A. or their affiliates entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock at the pricing of the Notes and may purchase our common stock in secondary market 15 Table of Contents transactions or enter into other over-the-counter derivative transactions in the future. Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America, N.A. or their affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments they may wish to use in connection with such hedging. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Conversion of the Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who have previously converted their Notes The conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the anticipated conversion could depress the price of our common stock. Adverse results in tax audits could result in significant cash expenditures or exposure to unforeseen liabilities We are subject to periodic federal, state and local income tax audits for various tax years. Although we attempt to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by the taxing authorities as the result of an audit could materially adversely affect us. We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock Our articles of organization authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval. The shares may have dividend, voting, liquidation and other rights and preferences that are senior to the rights of our common stock. The rights and preferences of any such class or series of preferred stock would be established by our Board in its sole discretion. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 16 Table of Contents 