ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common shares involves a number of risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this document. If any of the risks discussed actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and the value of your investment, could be materially adversely affected. For convenience, we have grouped these risk factors as follows: 1. Risks related to our investments 2. Risks related to our Advisor 3. Risks related to our debt obligations 4. Risks related to our classification as a REIT and not as an investment company 5. Risks related to our common shares and our shareholders 1. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS THERE ARE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INVESTMENTS SECURED BY REAL ESTATE, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS We derive most of our income by investing, directly and indirectly, in debt secured by multifamily or commercial properties. Such investments subject us to various types and degrees of risk that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our ability to generate revenue and net income. Multifamily and commercial property values and net operating income derived from such properties are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: o national, regional and local economic conditions (which may be adversely affected by industry slowdowns and other factors); o local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of housing, retail, industrial, office or other commercial space and market demand for condominium units) as well as national, regional and local politics, including current or future rent stabilization and rent control laws and agreements; o stability of the controlling entity of our borrower and managing agent of the borrower's property; o construction quality, age and design; o demographic factors; o retroactive changes to building or similar codes; o increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs); o the potential need to expend additional capital in order to preserve our investment if a mortgage loan is called due to construction not being completed as required in the mortgage loan documents; o the ability to increase rents to generate the funds necessary to maintain the properties securing our investments in proper condition which can depend upon rent limitations imposed by the federal low income housing tax credit ("LIHTC") Program and city, state and federal housing subsidy or similar programs; o if a loan defaults, the value of the property securing the loan (plus, for properties that are financed through the LIHTC Program, the value of the credits) may be less than the unamortized principal amount of the loan; o the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on a property securing our investment; a property operator could be liable for without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances; and o costs to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. These conditions and events may increase the possibility that a property operator or developer may be unable to meet its obligations to us or otherwise expose us to losses, thereby affecting our net income. From time to time, through the foreclosure process, we may also take title to properties as a result of loan defaults by borrowers. While our Advisor would act to improve the operating performance of any such properties and actively market them for sale, the assets tend to be illiquid and there is no assurance that we would realize the full carrying amounts when the properties are sold. 7 COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS THAT ARE NON-INVESTMENT GRADE INVOLVE RISK OF LOSS GENERAL. We intend to continue to originate and acquire non-investment grade mortgage loans and mortgage assets as part of our investment strategy. Such loans and assets may include first mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, construction loans, bridge loans, subordinated interests in first mortgage loans and CMBS. While holding such interests, we will be subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud and losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under mortgage loans we hold, we will bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the mortgage loan. LIMITED RECOURSE LOANS MAY LIMIT OUR RECOVERY TO THE VALUE OF THE MORTGAGED PROPERTY. Our loans are generally non-recourse, although some may have limited recourse provisions for a short period. In addition, limited recourse against the borrower may be further limited by applicable provisions of the laws of the jurisdictions in which the mortgaged properties are located or by the selection of remedies and the impact of those laws on that selection. With respect to our non-recourse mortgage loans, in the event of a borrower default, the value of the specific mortgaged property and other assets, if any, pledged to secure the relevant mortgage loan, may be less than the amount owed under the mortgage loan. As to those mortgage loans that provide for recourse against the borrower and its assets generally, there can be no assurance that such recourse will provide a recovery in respect of a defaulted mortgage loan greater than the liquidation value of the mortgaged property securing that mortgage loan. In addition, investment in subordinated interests in mortgage loans do not provide us with foreclosure remedies upon default. Should an investment default, we may lose our entire investment in such loans. COMPETITION IN ACQUIRING DESIRABLE INVESTMENTS MAY LIMIT THEIR AVAILABILITY WHICH COULD, IN TURN, NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE NET INCOME We compete for loan investments with numerous public and private real estate investment vehicles, such as investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, other REITS, opportunity and private equity funds and pension fund advisors. Mortgages, mezzanine loans, subordinated interests in CMBS and other investments are often obtained through a competitive bidding process. In addition, competitors may seek to establish relationships with the financial institutions and other firms from which we intend to purchase such assets. Many of our competitors are larger than us, may have access to greater capital resources and other resources, and may have other advantages over us and our Advisor in conducting certain business and providing certain services. Competition may result in higher prices for mortgage assets, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs. There can be no assurance that we will achieve investment results that will allow any specified level of cash distribution. INTEREST RATE FLUCTUATIONS WILL AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR ASSETS AND OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE NET INCOME Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate fluctuations can adversely affect our net income in many ways and present a variety of risks, including the risk of a mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates. Our income depends primarily on the spread between income we earn and our borrowing costs to fund investments. Interest rate mismatch occurs because many of our assets generate income at a fixed rate while our borrowings have interest rates that reset relatively rapidly, such as monthly or quarterly. In addition, in periods of declining market rates, income from our variable rate investments would decline. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may influence our net income and could result in operating losses. See also Item 7A, QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK. PREPAYMENT RATES MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR INVESTMENTS. The value of our investments may be affected by prepayment rates. Prepayment rates are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. To the extent we originate mortgage loans, we expect that such mortgage loans will have a measure of protection from prepayment in the form of prepayment lock-out periods or 8 prepayment penalties. In periods of declining mortgage interest rates, prepayments on mortgages generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets yielding less than the yields on the investments that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of mortgage investments may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less from declining interest rates than would other fixed-income securities. Conversely, in periods of rising interest rates, prepayments on mortgages generally decrease, in which case we would not have the prepayment proceeds available to invest in assets with higher yields. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. WE MAY NOT ACCURATELY ASSESS INVESTMENT YIELDS, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS Before making any investment, our Advisor will consider the expected yield of the investment and the factors that may influence the yield actually obtained on such investment. These considerations will affect our or our Advisor's decision whether to purchase such an investment and the price offered for such an investment. No assurances can be given that we or our Advisor will make an accurate assessment of the yield to be produced by an investment. Many factors beyond our and our Advisor's control are likely to influence the yield on the investments, including, but not limited to, competitive conditions in the local real estate market, local and general economic conditions and the quality of management of the underlying property. Our Advisor's inability to accurately assess investment yields may result in our purchasing assets that do not perform as well as expected, which may negatively affect our earnings. PARTICIPATING INTERESTS IN MORTGAGES MAY NOT BE REALIZED In connection with the acquisition and origination of mortgages, we have obtained and may continue to obtain participating interests that may entitle us to payments based upon a property's cash flow, profits or any increase in the value of the property that would be realized upon a refinancing or sale of the property. As the operation of a particular property is subject to numerous variables and risks, there can be no assurance that a participating interest will result in additional payments to us. CONCENTRATION AND THE CREDIT QUALITY OF BORROWERS MAY RESULT IN LOSSES We have not established any limit upon the geographic concentration of properties securing our investments or the credit quality of borrowers of uninsured investments. As a result, properties securing our investments may be overly concentrated in certain geographic areas and the underlying borrowers of our uninsured investments may have low credit quality. As of December 31, 2006, 87.9% of our portfolio was comprised of non-insured investments. Of this group of assets, 19.8%, 19.4% and 11.0% were secured by properties in Texas, California and New York, respectively. We had no borrowers exceeding 10% of our portfolio of investments in mortgage loans, notes receivable and revenue bonds. 2. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ADVISOR WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR ADVISOR AND IF OUR ADVISOR TERMINATES THE ADVISORY AGREEMENT, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FIND AN ADEQUATE REPLACEMENT ADVISOR We have no employees, although we have officers. We have entered into an Advisory Agreement with our Advisor under which it provides us with all of the services necessary for our operations. We are dependent on our Advisor for the management and administration of our business and investments. The results of our operations will be dependent upon the availability of, and our Advisor's ability to identify and capitalize on, investment opportunities. The agreement may be terminated: (i) without cause by our Advisor; or (ii) with or without cause by a majority of our independent trustees. The Advisor can terminate the agreement without penalty, but we are subject to a termination fee, except in certain instances, for termination or non-renewal, equal to four times the asset management fee and four times the incentive management fee that our Advisor would have been entitled to receive from us during the four calendar quarter period immediately proceeding the effective date of such termination. Termination would be effective upon 60 days prior 9 written notice to the non-terminating party. If our Advisor terminates our agreement, we may not be able to find an adequate replacement advisor. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST COULD ARISE AMONG US AND OUR RELATED PARTIES Our Advisor has subcontracted to its affiliates, CharterMac Capital and ASI, its obligation to provide services under the Advisory Agreement, and there are risks involved with this arrangement. Under our Advisory Agreement, the Advisor, CharterMac Capital and ASI are permitted to act as advisor to other entities having investment policies similar to ours, including other REITs. Generally, in conflict situations with non-affiliated entities, our Advisor must present an investment opportunity to us if the opportunity is within our investment objectives and policies, the opportunity is of a character that could be taken by us, and we have the financial resources to take advantage of the opportunity. Additionally, CharterMac, the parent of the Advisor, has in the past, and may in the future, invest in first mortgage loans, including taxable first mortgage revenue bonds or other investments that are similar to those in which we invest. To the extent that these existing entities, as well as affiliated entities which may be formed by affiliates of our Advisor in the future, have funds available for investment at the same time as we do and a potentially suitable investment is offered to us or the affiliated entities, our Advisor will review the affiliated entities' and our investment portfolios and will determine whether or not the investment should be made by one of the affiliated entities or by us based upon factors such as the amount of funds available for investment, yield and portfolio diversification. If the making of a mortgage loan or other mortgage investment appears equally appropriate for us and these affiliated entities, the mortgage loan or other mortgage investment will either be made by a joint venture between two or more of such entities (which may include us), or will be allocated to one of such entities on a basis of rotation with the initial order of priority determined by the dates of formation of the entities. We also have a co-investment agreement with a fund affiliated with (and managed by an affiliate of) our Advisor whereby we invest equally in commercial real estate loans. In the event that there is a default with respect to any of these investments, however, a conflict could exist with respect to claims on underlying assets, proceeds from liquidation, etc. In addition, Stephen M. Ross is the principal owner of The Related Companies L.P ("Related"), as well as the Chairman and an indirect owner of a 20.7% economic interest in CharterMac. Jeff T. Blau, one of our managing trustees, is also President of Related. Affiliates of Related are the borrowers of commercial real estate loans we own (see Notes 2 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements) and any defaults with respect to those loans would present a conflict of interest with respect to exercising our remedies. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST COULD ARISE IN TRANSACTIONS WHERE WE LEND TO OR BORROW FROM AFFILIATES OF OUR ADVISOR Every transaction entered into between us and an affiliate of our Advisor raises a potential conflict of interest. In addition to the initial determination to invest in mortgage investments secured by properties owned by an affiliate of our Advisor, such conflicts of interest with respect to these mortgage investments include, among others, decisions regarding: o whether to waive defaults of such affiliate; o whether to foreclose on a loan; and o whether to permit additional financing on the properties securing our investments other than financing provided by us. We have invested in, and may in the future invest in, mortgage investments secured by properties in which affiliates of our Advisor own equity interests in the borrower. Our declaration of trust requires that any transaction between our Advisor or any of its affiliates and us be approved by a majority of our trustees, including a majority of the independent trustees, not otherwise interested in the transaction, as being fair and reasonable and on terms not less favorable to us than those available from unaffiliated third parties. As of December 31, 2006, we had four first mortgage loans with a total carrying value of approximately $91.9 million, and four multifamily housing first mortgage bonds with a total carrying value of approximately $5.0 million to borrowers that are affiliates of our Advisor, which represents 13.4% of our total assets. 10 In June 2004, we entered into a revolving credit facility with CharterMac, which provides up to $50.0 million in borrowings and bears interest at LIBOR plus 3.0% basis points. This facility was extended through June 2007 and contains terms that are similar to those we would obtain from a third-party lender. In June 2007, we will have the option to extend the maturity date one year, which we expect to do. As of December 31, 2006, there was approximately $15.0 million outstanding on this facility. 3. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS SHORT-TERM REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS INVOLVE RISK OF LOSS We finance, and expect to continue to finance, a portion of our investments through collateralized borrowing in the form of repurchase agreements, which involve us selling assets concurrently with our agreement to repurchase them at a later date and at a fixed price. During the repurchase agreement period, we continue to receive principal and interest payments on the assets. The use of borrowing, or "leverage," to finance our assets involves a number of risks, including the following: IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RENEW OUR BORROWINGS AT FAVORABLE RATES, WE MAY BE FORCED TO SELL ASSETS, AND OUR PROFITABILITY MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We rely on short-term repurchase agreements to finance a portion of our assets. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms and our ability to renew or replace these short-term borrowings on a continuous basis as they mature. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we would be forced to sell some of our assets under possibly adverse market conditions, which may adversely affect our profitability. As of December 31, 2006, we had borrowings of approximately $163.6 million outstanding under our repurchase facilities. A DECLINE IN THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR ASSETS MAY RESULT IN MARGIN CALLS THAT MAY FORCE US TO SELL ASSETS UNDER ADVERSE MARKET CONDITIONS. Repurchase agreements involve the risk that the market value of the securities sold by us may decline and that we will be required to post additional collateral, reduce the amount borrowed or suffer forced sales of the collateral. If forced sales were made at prices lower than the carrying value of the collateral, we would experience additional losses. If we are forced to liquidate our assets to repay borrowings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the REIT asset and source of income requirements. OUR USE OF REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS TO BORROW MONEY MAY GIVE OUR LENDERS GREATER RIGHTS IN THE EVENT OF BANKRUPTCY. Our repurchase agreements require us to pledge certain of our assets to the lender to secure our obligations thereunder. Borrowings made under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets if a lender files for bankruptcy. In addition, if we were to file for bankruptcy, lenders under our repurchase agreements may be able to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and take possession of, and liquidate, the assets we pledged under these agreements without delay. THERE ARE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR CDO TRANSACTIONS We are exposed to additional risks when we finance a portion of our investment portfolio through a CDO transaction. Risks associated with financing investments through a CDO include the following: WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ACQUIRE ELIGIBLE INVESTMENTS FOR A CDO ISSUANCE, OR MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ISSUE CDO SECURITIES ON ATTRACTIVE TERMS, WHICH MAY REQUIRE US TO UTILIZE MORE COSTLY FINANCING FOR OUR INVESTMENTS, OR TO LIQUIDATE THE INVESTMENTS. We have begun to finance certain of our investments on a non-recourse, long-term basis through the issuance of CDOs. During the period that we are acquiring these investments, we finance our purchases through warehouse facilities. We use these facilities to finance our acquisition of investments until we have accumulated a sufficient quantity of them, at 11 which time we may refinance these lines through a securitization, such as a CDO issuance, or other types of long-term financing. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire a sufficient amount of eligible investments to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of CDOs less attractive to us when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these investments, we may be required to utilize other forms of potentially less attractive financing, or otherwise liquidate the collateral. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FIND SUITABLE REPLACEMENT INVESTMENTS IN COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS WITH REINVESTMENT PERIODS. Some CDOs have periods where principal proceeds received from assets securing the obligation can be reinvested for a defined period of time, commonly referred to as a reinvestment period. Our ability to find suitable investments during any reinvestment period that meet the criteria set forth in the CDO documentation and by rating agencies may determine the success of our CDO investments. Our potential inability to find suitable investments may, among other things: o cause interest deficiencies; o cause hyper-amortization of the senior CDO liabilities; and o cause us to reduce the life of our CDOs and accelerate the amortization of certain fees and expenses. THE USE OF CDO FINANCINGS WITH OVER-COLLATERALIZATION AND INTEREST COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR CASH FLOW. The terms governing CDOs generally provide that the principal amount of investments must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount and that interest income exceed interest expense by a certain amount. If delinquencies and/or losses or other factors cause a decline in collateral or cash flow levels, the cash flow otherwise payable on our investment may be redirected to repay the senior classes of debt until such point as the CDO is in compliance with the terms of the CDO. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. If our investments fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization, interest coverage or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDO financings will increase. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REPURCHASE LOANS THAT WE HAVE SOLD OR TO INDEMNIFY HOLDERS OF OUR CDOS. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize through CDOs do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchases or indemnification payments could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. HEDGING TRANSACTIONS CAN LIMIT GAINS AND INCREASE EXPOSURE TO LOSSES Hedging involves risk and hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates and prepayment rates. We intend generally to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as our Advisor determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and related borrowings. Any limitation on our use of hedging techniques may result in greater interest rate risk. 12 4. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CLASSIFICATION AS A REIT AND NOT AS AN INVESTMENT COMPANY There are risks associated with being a REIT, which include the following: FAILURE TO QUALIFY AS A REIT WOULD SUBJECT US TO FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL INCOME TAXES, WHICH WOULD REDUCE THE NET INCOME AND CASH AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. We offer investors the opportunity to invest through an entity intended to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing REIT qualification are limited. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, including the tax treatment of participation interests in mortgage loans and mezzanine loans, and the possibility of future changes in its circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay federal, state and local income taxes on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused or cured under federal tax laws, we would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. AS A REIT, OUR INCOME CAN ONLY COME FROM LIMITED TYPES OF SOURCES. To qualify as a REIT, at least 75% of our gross income must come from qualified real estate sources and at least 95% of our gross income must come from qualified real estate sources and certain other sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. In addition to these income tests, we must satisfy certain requirements concerning our assets on a quarterly basis, including the requirement that at least 75% of our assets qualify as real estate assets. Therefore, we may have to forego opportunities to invest in potentially profitable businesses or assets because they would produce income that could jeopardize our status as a REIT. FAILURE TO MAKE REQUIRED DISTRIBUTIONS WOULD SUBJECT US TO TAX, WHICH WOULD REDUCE THE CASH AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our taxable income (including certain items of non-cash income), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. In addition, we may be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than certain specified amounts. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining the REIT's GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of net income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets. To the extent that we generate such non-cash taxable income, or "phantom" income, in a taxable year, we may incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax on that income if we do not distribute such income to our shareholders in that year or we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. WE ARE ALSO SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX LIABILITIES. As a REIT, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes on certain types of income, property and transactions. Any of these taxes would reduce our operating cash flow. 13 LIQUIDATION OF COLLATERAL MAY JEOPARDIZE OUR REIT STATUS. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our mortgage investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT. CHANGES IN TAX LAWS REGARDING REITS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME. Congress, and to some extent the United States Department of Treasury, as well as state legislatures and regulatory authorities, could at any time adversely change the way in which a REIT and its stockholders are taxed, by imposing additional entity-level taxes, further restricting the permissible beneficial ownership and types of assets and income of a REIT, requiring additional distributions, or changing the law in any other respect. Moreover, such changes could apply retroactively. Should any such changes be implemented, they may cause our net income to decline. LOSS OF INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT EXCLUSION WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. We intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"). Towards this end, we rely on an exclusion from regulation as an investment company available to entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. Under the current interpretation of the SEC staff, in order to qualify for this exclusion, we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in these qualifying real estate interests, and 80% of our assets in qualifying real estate interests and real estate-related interests. In meeting the 55% requirement, we treat as qualifying real estate interests our investments in whole mortgage loans and revenue bonds that are secured by first mortgages on affordable multifamily housing properties. We also treat as qualifying real estate interests our investments in mortgage-backed securities issued with respect to an underlying pool as to which we hold all issued certificates. Mortgage-backed securities that do not represent all the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not be considered qualifying real estate interests for purposes of the 55% requirement. Instead, we treat our interests in these mortgage-backed securities as real estate-related interests. Therefore, our ownership of these mortgage-backed securities is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. If we fail to qualify for the exclusion for real estate companies, we would be regulated as an investment company and our business would be materially adversely affected. As a regulated investment company, we would be prevented from conducting our business as described in this document because the Investment Company Act contains various restrictions that, among other things, would reduce our ability to borrow. If the SEC or its staff adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to the treatment of investments in mortgage backed securities, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our mortgage-backed securities under potentially adverse market conditions. In addition, in order to insure that we at all times qualify for the exclusion from the Investment Company Act, we may be precluded from acquiring mortgage-backed securities whose yield is somewhat higher than the yield on those that could be purchased in a manner consistent with the exemption. The net effect of these factors may be to lower our net income. 5. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON SHARES AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS RESTRICTIONS ON SHARE ACCUMULATION IN REITS COULD DISCOURAGE A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% of the number or value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of a taxable year or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. In order to prevent five or fewer individuals from acquiring more than 50% of our outstanding shares and a resulting failure to qualify as a REIT, our declaration of trust provides that, no person may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares. The shares most recently acquired by a person that are in excess of the 9.8% limit will not have any voting rights and will be deemed to have been offered for sale to us for a period subsequent to the acquisition. Any person who acquires shares in excess of the 9.8% limit is obliged to immediately give written notice to us and provide us with any information we may request in order to determine the effect of the acquisition on our status as a REIT. 14 While these restrictions are designed to prevent any five individuals from owning more than 50% of our shares, preserving our status as a REIT, they also discourage a change in control of our company. These restrictions may also deter tender offers that may be attractive to shareholders or limit the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares if an investor makes purchases of shares to acquire a block of shares. SUPERMAJORITY VOTING REQUIREMENTS FOR ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS COULD DISCOURAGE A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY. Our declaration of trust requires that 80% of our shareholders and all of our independent trustees approve exchange offers, mergers, consolidations or similar transactions involving us in which our shareholders receive securities in a surviving entity having materially different investment objectives and policies, or that is anticipated to provide significantly greater compensation to management, except for transactions affected because of changes in applicable law, or to preserve tax advantages for a majority in interest of our shareholders. These restrictions may also deter tender offers that may be attractive to shareholders or limit the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares if an investor makes purchases of shares to acquire a block of shares. ISSUANCES OF LARGE AMOUNTS OF OUR COMMON SHARES COULD CAUSE OUR SHARE PRICE TO DECLINE. Our declaration of trust permits our trustees to issue an unlimited number of shares (subject to SEC registration requirements and the consent of shareholders if required pursuant to the rules of the American Stock Exchange). The issuance of common shares could cause dilution of our existing common shares and a decrease in the market price of our common shares. OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAY HAVE PERSONAL LIABILITY FOR OUR ACTS AND OBLIGATIONS. It is possible that certain states may not recognize the limited liability of shareholders, although our declaration of trust provides that our shareholders shall not be subject to any personal liability for our acts or obligations. In certain states, our shareholders may be held personally liable for contract claims where the underlying agreement does not specifically exclude shareholder liability. Our shareholders may also be held personally liable for other claims against us, such as tort claims, claims for taxes and certain statutory liability. Upon payment of any such liability, however, the shareholder will, in the absence of willful misconduct on the shareholder's part, be entitled to reimbursement from our general assets, to the extent such assets are sufficient to satisfy the claim. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 