Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to significant risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. Risks Related to Our Business We face a number of risks in opening new stores and relocating or expanding existing stores. As part of our growth strategy, we will primarily pursue expansion and relocation opportunities in our existing store base. For both new stores and relocations, we are negotiating for upgraded sites. With the expansion opportunities, we are working with high producing stores and increasing the selling square footage. To that end, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2010 we plan to add slightly fewer stores than in prior years and expand or relocate existing stores as we locate profitable opportunities to do so. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to achieve our relocation or expansion goals or that we will be able to operate our new stores profitably. Further, we cannot assure that any new, relocated or expanded store will achieve similar operating results to those of our existing stores or that new, relocated or expanded stores opened in markets in which we operate will not have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our existing stores. The success of our planned expansion will be dependent upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: the ability of our personnel to adequately analyze and identify suitable markets and individual store sites within those markets; the competition for suitable store sites; our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords; our ability to obtain governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate our stores; the availability of employees to staff new stores and our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain store personnel; the availability of adequate management and financial resources to properly manage a large volume of stores; our ability to adapt our distribution and other operational and management systems to a changing network of stores; and our ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new stores profitably. 10 We opened stores in new markets during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, and the six-month period ended June 30, 2007. We intend to enter into additional new markets in fiscal 2010 and beyond. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. Poor economic conditions affect consumer spending and may significantly harm our business. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors beyond our control affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that we offer, including, among other things: general economic and industry conditions; the housing market; crude oil prices, that affect gasoline and heating oil prices; food prices and their effect on consumer discretionary spending; the level of consumer debt; interest rates; tax rates and policies; war, terrorism and other hostilities; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The merchandise we sell generally consists of discretionary items. Reduced consumer confidence and spending cut backs may result in reduced demand for our discretionary items and may force us to take significant inventory markdowns. Reduced demand also may require increased selling and promotional expenses. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in consumer demand for discretionary items could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on us. The retail home furnishings and housewares industry is intensely competitive. As a closeout retailer of home furnishings and housewares, we currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including department and discount stores, specialty and e-commerce retailers and mass merchants, which sell, among other products, home furnishing and housewares products similar and often identical to those we sell. We also compete in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of home furnishing and houseware products that we sell. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources that may allow them to initiate and sustain aggressive price competition. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: increased operational efficiencies of competitors; competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability; continued and prolonged promotional activity by competitors; liquidation sales by a number of our competitors who have filed or will file for bankruptcy; expansion by existing competitors; entry by new competitors into markets in which we currently operate; and adoption by existing competitors of innovative store formats or retail sales methods. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, or that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors will not materially harm our business. We compete for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional, national and international retailers. We also face competition from alternative retail distribution channels such as catalogues and internet websites. Changes in the merchandising, pricing and promotional activities of those competitors, and in the retail industry generally, may adversely affect our performance. 11 We must continuously attract buying opportunities for closeout merchandise and anticipate consumer demand as closeout merchandise becomes available. By its nature, specific closeout merchandise items are available from manufacturers or vendors generally on a non-recurring basis. As a result, we do not have long-term contracts with our vendors for supply, pricing or access to products, but make individual purchase decisions, which are often for large quantities. With the current disruption in the credit markets, certain of our manufacturers and suppliers have ceased operations or have otherwise become unable to continue supplying closeout merchandise on terms acceptable to us. We further cannot assure that manufacturers or vendors will continue to make closeout merchandise available to us in quantities acceptable to us or that our buyers will continue to identify and take advantage of appropriate buying opportunities. In addition, if we misjudge consumer demand for products, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant markdowns and miss opportunities to sell more popular products. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or to accurately anticipate consumer demand for such merchandise would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of, or disruption in the operations of, our centralized distribution center would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. With minor exceptions, all inventory is shipped directly from suppliers to our centralized distribution center in the Dallas, Texas metropolitan area, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to our stores. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. We cannot assure that we have anticipated all of the changing demands which our expanding operations will impose on our receiving and distribution system or that events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, will not result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. We also cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution center is shut down for any reason. Our freight costs and thus our cost of goods sold are impacted by changes in fuel prices. Our freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. Fuel prices and surcharges affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to our distribution center and outbound freight from our distribution center to our stores. In addition, the U.S. government requires drivers of over-the-road trucks to take certain rest periods which reduce the available amount of time they can drive during a 24-hour period. High fuel prices or surcharges, as well as stringent driver regulations, may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of goods sold. The loss or departure of one or more members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future performance will depend in large part upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Kathleen Mason, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and our other key employees, including our buyers. The loss of service of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. We do not maintain key person life insurance for Ms. Mason or our other senior management. We only have employment agreements with Ms. Mason and Mr. Michael Marchetti, our Chief Operating Officer, and have no such agreements with any of our other members of senior management. 12 If we are not able to generate strong cash flows from our operations, we will not be able to support capital expansion, operations and debt repayment. Our business is dependent upon our operations generating strong cash flows to support our capital expansion requirements, our general operating activities and our debt repayments. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could adversely affect our financial performance and our earnings per share growth. An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. Merchandise manufactured and imported from overseas is the majority of our total product purchases acquired both domestically and internationally. A disruption in the shipping of our imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. In addition, if imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Products from alternative sources may also be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Risks associated with our reliance on imported products include disruptions in the shipping and importation or increases in the costs of imported products because of factors such as: raw material shortages; work stoppages; strikes and political unrest; problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; increased customs inspections of import shipments or other factors causing delays in shipments; economic crises; international disputes and wars; loss of "most favored nation" trading status by the United States in relation to a particular foreign country; import duties; import quotas and other trade sanctions; and increases in shipping rates. The products we buy abroad are sometimes priced in foreign currencies and, therefore, we are affected by fluctuating exchange rates. In the past, we have entered into foreign currency exchange contracts with major financial institutions to hedge these fluctuations. We might not be able to successfully protect ourselves in the future against currency rate fluctuations, and our financial performance could suffer as a result. You should read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for more information about our foreign currency exchange rate exposure and hedging activities. Our success depends upon our marketing, advertising and promotional efforts. If we are unable to implement them successfully, or if our competitors are more effective than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. We use marketing and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores and to encourage purchases by our customers. We use various media for our promotional efforts, including print, television, database marketing, email and direct marketing. If we fail to choose the appropriate medium for our efforts, or fail to implement and execute new marketing opportunities, our competitors may be able to attract some of our customers and cause them to decrease purchases in our stores and increase purchases elsewhere, which could negatively impact our revenues. Changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy by our competitors could cause us to have difficulties in retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. 13 If we do not attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers, as well as, experienced buying and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. Our performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers, as well as, experienced buying and management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. In the event of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages competitively, our customer service could suffer because of a declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings would decrease if we increase our wage rates. Changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality associates and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. Our results of operations are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. Our business is highly seasonal, with a significant portion of our net sales and operating income generated during the quarter ended December 31, which includes the holiday shopping season. Net sales in the quarters ended December 31 of 2008, 2007, and 2006 accounted for approximately 34%, 35%, and 35%, respectively, of our annual net sales for such years. Operating income for the quarters ended December 31 of 2008, 2007, and 2006 accounted for approximately 845.2%, 142%, and 64%, respectively, of our annual operating income for such years. For more information about our seasonality, please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationQuarterly Results and Seasonality." Because a significant percentage of our net sales and operating income are generated in the quarter ending December 31, we have limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in December quarter sales or earnings by changes in our operations or strategies in other quarters. A significant shortfall in results for the quarter ending December 31 of any year could have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly based on such factors as: the timing of new store openings; the amount of net sales contributed by new and existing stores; the success of our store relocation program; the timing of certain holidays and sales events; changes in our merchandise mix; general economic, industry and weather conditions that affect consumer spending; and actions of competitors, including promotional activity. A failure to grow or maintain our comparable store sales may adversely affect our results of operations. Our comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe such fluctuations may continue given the current economic climate and uncertainty of consumer spending. Our comparable store sales decreased 12.5% and 7.6% for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, decreased 2.5% in the six-month period ended June 30, 2007, and decreased 7.9% in the calendar year ended December 31, 2006. The unpredictability of our comparable store sales may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or operating income may cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. A failure to grow or maintain our comparable store sales results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: competition; general regional and national economic conditions; inclement weather; consumer trends, such as less spending due the impact of high unemployment rates; changes in our merchandise mix; our ability to distribute merchandise efficiently to our stores; timing and type 14 of sales events, promotional activities or other advertising; new merchandise introductions; and our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation, and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; a requirement that stockholder meetings may only be called by the President and Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board or at the written request of a majority of the directors then in office and not the stockholders; a prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our Board of Directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws without further stockholder approval; and the requirement for advance notice for nominations for directors to our board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. Our largest stockholder has significant influence over us, which may affect the rights of other stockholders. At August 26, 2009, Madison Dearborn Capital Partners II, L.P. and its affiliates (collectively, "Madison Dearborn") beneficially owned approximately 26% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and thus, has a significant influence over election of our directors, approval of mergers, sales of assets and other matters. The interests of Madison Dearborn may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Sales of our common stock by our largest stockholder could depress our stock price. If our largest stockholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. Such sales might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future. As of August 26, 2009, Madison Dearborn beneficially owned approximately 26% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Pursuant to registration rights we granted to Madison Dearborn, we have filed, and the SEC has declared effective, a registration statement that would enable Madison Dearborn, from time to time, to sell some or all of its shares of common stock, in the public market or otherwise. Because we do not presently have plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. On February 1, 2008, our Board of Directors voted to terminate the declaration of an annual cash dividend. The Board of Directors indicated that it will consider the full range of alternatives with regard to the use of any excess cash flow in the future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. 15 The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially over the past several years and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. From December 31, 2006 to June 30, 2009, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $0.51 per share to a high of $17.87 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control, which have been included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 