Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to significant risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We face a number of risks in opening new stores. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to increase our total number of stores. To do so successfully, we must open stores in new and existing markets and operate these stores on a profitable basis. We increased our net store base by 62 in 2003, 85 in 2004 and 70 in 2005 and currently plan to increase our net store base by approximately 65 to 70 net stores in 2006. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that we will be able to operate our new stores profitably. Further, we cannot assure you that any new store will achieve similar operating results to those of our existing stores or that new stores opened in markets in which we operate will not have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our existing stores. The success of our planned expansion will be dependent upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · the ability of our personnel to adequately analyze and identify suitable markets and individual store sites within those markets; · the competition for suitable store sites; · our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords; · our ability to obtain governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate our stores; · the availability of employees to staff new stores and our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain store personnel; · the availability of adequate management and financial resources to properly manage an increased number of stores; · our ability to adapt our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; and · our ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new stores profitably. We opened stores in several new markets during 2005 and intend to enter into additional new markets in 2006 and beyond. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. 10 Poor economic conditions affect consumer spending and may significantly harm our business. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that we offer, including, among other things: · general economic, industry and weather conditions; · high crude oil prices, that affect gasoline and heating oil prices; · the level of consumer debt; · interest rates; · tax rates and policies; · war, terrorism and other hostilities; and · consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The merchandise we sell generally consists of discretionary items. Reduced consumer confidence and spending may result in reduced demand for our discretionary items and may force us to take significant inventory markdowns. Reduced demand also may require increased selling and promotional expenses. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in consumer demand for discretionary items could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and results of operations are subject to a broad range of uncertainties arising out of world events. Our business and results of operations are subject to uncertainties arising out of world events. These uncertainties may include a global economy slowdown, changes in consumer spending or travel, the increase in gasoline and natural gas prices, the outbreak of illnesses such as Bird Flu and the economic consequences of military action or additional terrorist activities. Any future events arising as a result of terrorist activity or other world events may have a material impact on our business, our ability to source products, results of operations and financial condition in the future. Our business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on us. The retail home furnishings industry is intensely competitive. As a closeout retailer of home furnishings, we currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including department and discount stores and e-commerce retailers, which sell, among other products, home furnishing products similar and often identical to those we sell. We also compete in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of home furnishing products that we sell. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources that may allow them to initiate and sustain aggressive price competition. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: · increased operational efficiencies of competitors; · competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability; · expansion by existing competitors; · entry by new competitors into markets in which we currently operate; and 11 · adoption by existing competitors of innovative store formats or retail sales methods, including e-commerce and gift cards. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, or that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors will not materially harm our business. We must continuously attract buying opportunities for closeout merchandise and anticipate consumer demand as closeout merchandise becomes available. By its nature, specific closeout merchandise items are available from manufacturers or vendors generally on a non-recurring basis. As a result, we do not have long-term contracts with our vendors for supply, pricing or access to products, but make individual purchase decisions, which are often for large quantities. Although we have many sources of merchandise and do not foresee any shortages of closeout merchandise in the near future, we cannot assure you that manufacturers or vendors will continue to make closeout merchandise available to us in quantities or on terms acceptable to us or that our buyers will continue to identify and take advantage of appropriate buying opportunities. In addition, if we misjudge consumer demand for products, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant markdowns and miss opportunities to sell more popular products. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or to accurately anticipate consumer demand for such merchandise would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of, or disruption in, our centralized distribution center would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. With minor exceptions, all inventory is shipped directly from suppliers to our centralized distribution center in the Dallas, Texas metropolitan area, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to our stores. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. Although we believe that our receiving and distribution process is efficient and well positioned to support our expansion plans, we cannot assure you that we have anticipated all of the changing demands which our expanding operations will impose on our receiving and distribution system or that events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, will not result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. Our freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. Fuel prices and surcharges affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to our distribution center and outbound freight from our distribution center to our stores. In addition, effective January 1, 2004, the U.S. government mandated certain changes requiring drivers of over-the-road trucks to take certain rest periods which reduce the available amount of time they can drive during a 24 hour period. Increases in fuel prices and surcharges, as well as the new driver regulations, may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of goods sold. Although we maintain business interruption and property insurance, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution center is shut down for any reason. The loss or departure of one or more members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future performance will depend in large part upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Kathleen Mason, our Chief Executive Officer, and our other key employees, including our buyers. The loss of service of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our 12 business and future prospects. We do not maintain key person life insurance for Ms. Mason or our other senior management. We are dependent on external funding sources, which may not make available to us sufficient funds when we need them. We, like other retailers, rely on external funding sources to finance our operations and growth. We currently believe that our cash flow from operations and funds available under our revolving credit facility will satisfy our capital requirements for the next 12 months. Our ability to obtain additional financing is dependent upon our future operating performance, general economic and competitive conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. Merchandise originally manufactured and imported from overseas is a large proportion of our total product purchases. A disruption in the shipping of our imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. In addition, if imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Products from alternative sources may also be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Risks associated with our reliance on imported products include: · disruptions in the shipping and importation of imported products because of factors such as: · raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; · problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; · increased custom inspections of import shipments or other factors causing delays in shipments; · economic crises, international disputes and wars; and · increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise resulting from: · loss of “most favored nation” trading status by the United States in relation to a particular foreign country; · import duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions; and · increases in shipping rates. The products we buy abroad are often priced in foreign currencies and, therefore, we are affected by fluctuating exchange rates. In the past, we have entered into foreign currency exchange contracts with major financial institutions to hedge these fluctuations. We might not be able to successfully protect ourselves in the future against currency rate fluctuations, and our financial performance could suffer as a result. You should read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for more information about our foreign currency exchange rate exposure and hedging activities. We are subject to environmental regulations. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, current or previous owners or occupants of property may become liable for the costs of removing any hazardous substances found on the property. These laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to fault. As of December 31, 2005, we leased all but one of our stores and 302,000 square feet of land and own 1,352,000 square feet of distribution facilities. In addition, we operate three aboveground diesel storage tanks at our distributions 13 facilities. We have adopted policies regarding the handling and disposal of these products, and we train our employees on how to handle and dispose of them. Although we have not been notified of, and are not aware of, any current environmental liability, claim or non-compliance, we could incur costs in the future related to our leased properties, owned buildings or our storage tanks. We cannot assure you that our policies and training will successfully help us avoid potential violations of these environmental laws and regulations in the future. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our results of operations are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our business is highly seasonal, with a significant portion of our net sales and operating income generated during the fourth quarter, which includes the holiday shopping season. Net sales in the fourth quarters of 2005, 2004 and 2003 accounted for approximately 36%, 37% and 39%, respectively, of annual net sales for such years. Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2005, 2004 and 2003 accounted for approximately 58%, 59% and 63%, respectively, of annual operating income for such years. For more information about our seasonality, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Quarterly Results and Seasonality.” Because a significant percentage of our net sales and operating income are generated in the fourth quarter, we have limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in fourth quarter sales or earnings by changes in our operations or strategies in other quarters. A significant shortfall in results for the fourth quarter of any year could have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate significantly based on such factors as: · the timing of new store openings; · the amount of net sales contributed by new and existing stores; · the timing of certain holidays and sales events; · changes in our merchandise mix; · general economic, industry and weather conditions that affect consumer spending; and · actions of competitors, including promotional activity. A failure to grow or maintain our comparable store sales may adversely affect our stock price and impact our results of operations. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: · competition; · general regional and national economic conditions; · inclement weather such as hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma that affected the Southern U.S. in the fall of 2005; · consumer trends, such as less spending due the impact of higher gasoline prices; · changes in our merchandise mix; · our ability to distribute merchandise efficiently to our stores; · timing and type of sales events, promotional activities or other advertising; · new merchandise introductions; and 14 · our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Our comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe such fluctuations may continue. Our comparable store sales decreased 4.0% in 2005 and 1.7% in 2004 and increased 3.4% in 2003. The unpredictability of our comparable store sales may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or operating income may cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. A failure to grow or maintain our comparable store sales results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decrease significantly. Our largest shareholder has significant influence over us, which may affect the rights of other shareholders. At December 31, 2005, Madison Dearborn Capital Partners II, L.P. held a 28% shareholder interest in us. This percentage represents a substantial amount of our common stock and Madison Dearborn will continue to have significant influence over election of our directors, approval of mergers, sales of assets and other matters. The interests of Madison Dearborn may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock on the public market could depress our stock price. If our largest shareholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Such sales might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future. As of February 24, 2006, Madison Dearborn beneficially owned 11,388,526 shares of common stock, or approximately 28% of our outstanding shares. Madison Dearborn has advised us that it expects to continue to reduce its ownership interest in our company over time, subject to prevailing market conditions. We have granted Madison Dearborn certain rights with respect to the registration of shares of our common stock held by it, including the right to require that we register the sale of all or part of the shares it holds. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, subject to any limitations prescribed by law and our revolving credit facility, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 