Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Information and Risk Factors that May Affect Future Results Set forth below are certain important risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements made by us. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 for additional risk factors. The loss of our relationship with Macy’s, or significant store closures by our host store groups, would materially adversely affect our business. We operate licensed fine jewelry departments in major department stores and, as such, our business is substantially dependent on our relationships with our host store groups, especially Macy’s. A decision by Macy’s, or certain of our other host store groups, to terminate existing relationships, transfer the operation of some or all of their departments to a competitor, assume the operation of those departments themselves, or close a significant number of stores, would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In 2007, our department store based fine jewelry sales constituted 73% of our total sales, and approximately 52% of our total sales were generated by departments operated in store groups owned by Macy’s. As of February 2, 2008, we operated a total of 350 departments in five of Macy’s eight divisions. In February 2008, Macy’s announced corporate restructuring initiatives impacting three divisional changes including the consolidation of Macy's North into Macy's East, Macy's Northwest into Macy's West, and Macy's Midwest into Macy's South. The consolidation of Macy's North as well as that of Macy's Northwest, will result in the non-renewal of license agreements with Finlay Jewelry and the loss of 57 departments and 37 departments, respectively. In March 2008, Macy's signed a two-year extension of Finlay Jewelry’s license agreement for Macy’s Central (the newly-merged division of Macy's Midwest and Macy's South), which consists of 222 departments, through January 29, 2011. In 2007, the Macy's North and Macy's Northwest locations generated approximately $120.0 million in combined revenue for Finlay. The total revenue generated from all of the Macy's locations (including Bloomingdale’s) in 2007 was approximately $438.6 million. In February 2008, we received notification from NRDC that Finlay Jewelry’s license agreement for Lord & Taylor would not be renewed upon its expiration on January 31, 2009. Finlay Jewelry will close a total of 47 Lord & Taylor departments at the end of 2008. In 2007, the Lord & Taylor departments generated approximately $44.0 million in sales. In May 2006, the Company announced that Belk would not renew Finlay Jewelry’s license agreement due to Belk’s acquisition of a privately-held company that licensed fine jewelry departments in certain of the Belk stores. The termination of the license agreement, effective at the end of 2006, resulted in the closure of 75 departments. In 2006, we generated sales of approximately $51.9 million from the Belk departments. Further, in October 2006, Belk acquired Parisian from Saks. We operated 33 Parisian departments through August 4, 2007. In 2007 and 2006, we generated sales of approximately $9.8 million and $22.8 million, respectively, from our Parisian departments. We may not be able to successfully expand our business or increase the number of departments we operate. A significant portion of our historical growth in sales and income from operations has resulted from our ability to obtain licenses to operate departments in new host store groups and the addition of new departments in existing host store groups. We cannot predict the number of departments we will operate in the future. 13 The seasonality of the retail jewelry business makes our profitability substantially dependent on our fourth quarter results. Our business is highly seasonal, with a significant portion of our sales and income from operations generated during the fourth quarter of each year, which includes the year-end holiday season. We have typically experienced net losses in the first three quarters of our fiscal year. During these periods, working capital requirements have been funded by borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement. This pattern is expected to continue. A substantial decrease in sales during the fourth quarter, whether resulting from adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, supply chain problems or any other cause, would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and our financial condition. Our locations are heavily dependent on customer traffic and the continued popularity of our host stores and malls. The success of our licensed fine jewelry departments depends, in part, on the ability of host stores to generate customer traffic in their stores, and the continuing popularity of malls and department stores as shopping destinations. Customer traffic, sales volume and earnings may be adversely affected by economic slowdowns or adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic area, the closing of anchor tenants, or competition from retailers such as discount and mass merchandise stores and other department and specialty jewelry stores where we do not have locations. We may not be able to successfully identify, finance, integrate or make acquisitions outside of the licensed jewelry department business. We may from time to time examine opportunities to acquire or invest in companies or businesses that complement our existing core business, such as the acquisition of Bailey Banks & Biddle in November 2007, Congress in November 2006 and Carlyle in May 2005. There can be no assurance that these acquisitions or any other future acquisitions by us will be successful or improve our operating results. In addition, our ability to complete acquisitions will depend on the availability of both suitable target businesses and acceptable financing. Any acquisitions may result in a potentially dilutive issuance of additional equity securities, the incurrence of additional debt or increased working capital requirements. Such acquisitions could involve numerous additional risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, products, services and personnel of any acquired company, diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns, and expansion into new businesses with which we may have no prior experience. Our substantial debt and the terms of our debt instruments could adversely affect our business. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of February 2, 2008, we had $200.0 million of debt outstanding under our 8 3/8% Senior Notes due June 1, 2012 (the “Senior Notes”). Additionally, at February 2, 2008, borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement were $224.2 million and we had letters of credit outstanding totaling $6.2 million under our Revolving Credit Facility. During 2007, our average revolver balance was $146.7 million and we peaked in usage at $368.2 million, at which point the available borrowings were an additional $81.4 million. The excess availability was in addition to the $30.0 million minimum availability that we are required to maintain. Our high leverage could make us more vulnerable to general changes in the economy. 14 Our profitability depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to obtain substantial amounts of merchandise on consignment. The willingness of vendors to enter into consignment arrangements may vary substantially from time to time based on a number of factors, including the type of merchandise involved, the vendors’ financial resources, interest rates, availability of financing, fluctuations in gem and gold prices, inflation, our financial condition and a number of other economic or competitive conditions in the jewelry business or generally. A decline in discretionary consumer spending may adversely affect our industry, our operations and our profitability. Luxury products, such as fine jewelry, are discretionary purchases for consumers. Any reduction in consumer discretionary spending or disposable income may affect our industry more significantly than other industries. Many economic factors outside of our control could affect consumer discretionary spending, including the financial markets, consumer credit availability, prevailing interest rates, energy costs, employment levels, salary levels and tax rates. Any reduction in discretionary consumer spending could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition, especially if such changes were to occur in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Volatility in the availability and cost of precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones could adversely affect our business. The jewelry industry in general is affected by fluctuations in the prices of precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones. The availability and prices of gold, diamonds and other precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones may be influenced by cartels, political instability in exporting countries and inflation. Shortages of these materials or sharp changes in their prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. A significant change in prices of key commodities, including gold and diamonds, could adversely affect our business by reducing operating margins and impacting consumer demand if retail prices are increased significantly. Moreover, human rights issues in countries exporting diamonds and other precious gemstones may affect consumer demand for these products. The retail jewelry business is highly competitive. We face competition for retail jewelry sales from national and regional jewelry chains, other department stores in which we do not operate the fine jewelry departments, local independently owned jewelry stores, specialty stores, mass merchandisers, catalog showrooms, discounters, direct mail suppliers, internet merchants and televised home shopping. Some of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than us. Competition may result in price pressure, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We may not be able to collect proceeds from our host stores. Our license agreements typically require the host stores to remit the net sales proceeds for each month to us approximately three weeks after the end of such month. However, we cannot assure you that we will timely collect the net sales proceeds due to us from our host stores. If one or more host stores fail to remit the net sales proceeds for a substantial period of time or during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year due to financial instability, insolvency or otherwise, this could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. 15 We are dependent on several key vendors and other suppliers. In 2007, approximately 43.3% of sales were generated by merchandise obtained from our ten largest vendors, and approximately 6.7% of sales were generated by merchandise obtained from our largest vendor. There can be no assurance that we can identify, on a timely basis, alternate sources of merchandise supply in the case of an abrupt loss of any of our significant suppliers. Additionally, we receive allowances from our vendors through a variety of programs and arrangements, including cooperative advertising. A significant reduction in the collection of such allowances may negatively impact our future gross margins and/or increase future selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”), and may reduce future net income. Our success depends on our ability to identify and rapidly respond to fashion trends. The jewelry industry is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our success depends on the priority that our target customers place on fashion and our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize upon emerging fashion trends. If we misjudge fashion trends and are unable to adjust our product offerings in a timely manner, our net sales may decline or fail to meet expectations and any excessive inventory may need to be sold at lower prices. We could be materially adversely affected if our distribution operations are disrupted. In the event that our distribution facilities were to shut down or otherwise become inoperable or inaccessible for any reason, we could incur higher costs and longer lead times to distribute merchandise to our stores during the time it takes to reopen or replace the affected facility. We are heavily dependent on our management information systems and our ability to maintain and upgrade these systems from time to time. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on our management information systems. In particular, we rely on our inventory and merchandising control systems, which allow us to make better decisions in the allocation and distribution of our merchandise. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected if our systems were inoperable or inaccessible or if we were not able, for any reason, to successfully restore our systems and fully execute our disaster recovery plan. From time to time, we improve and upgrade our management information systems. If we are unable to maintain and upgrade our systems or to integrate new and updated systems in an efficient and timely manner, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to retain key personnel, particularly Arthur E. Reiner, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Reiner’s services or those of our current members of senior management, or our failure to attract talented new employees, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The terms of our debt instruments and other obligations impose financial and operating restrictions. The Revolving Credit Agreement and the indenture relating to the Senior Notes contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants include limitations on, or relating to, liens, indebtedness, investments, mergers, acquisitions, affiliated transactions, management compensation and the payment of dividends and other restricted payments. As of February 2, 2008, we are in compliance with all of our covenants. 16 The future impact of legal and regulatory issues is unknown. Our business is subject to government laws and regulations including, but not limited to, employment laws and regulations, state advertising regulations, quality standards imposed by federal law, and other laws and regulations. A violation or change of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the future impact of litigation arising in the ordinary course of business may have an adverse effect on our financial results or reputation. Our stand-alone jewelry store business could be adversely affected if it is unable to successfully negotiate favorable lease terms. All of our stand-alone stores are leased with most having a term of ten years. Rent for those stores is a fixed minimum base plus, for certain of the stores, a percentage of store sales in excess of a specified threshold. We have generally been successful in negotiating leases for new stores and lease renewals. However, our stand-alone jewelry store business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to continue to negotiate favorable new and renewal lease terms. We could have failures in our system of internal control over financial reporting. We maintain a documented system of internal control over financial reporting which is reviewed and monitored by management, who meet regularly with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal control; however, there can be no assurances that control deficiencies will not arise in the future. Although we have devoted significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal control, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls will be adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on the accuracy of our financial statements and our ability to detect fraud and could cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. Item 