Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Information and Risk Factors that May Affect Future Results Set forth below are certain important risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements made by us. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in Item 7 for additional risk factors. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on the successful implementation of our strategic plan, the repayment of the amounts due under the Revolving Credit Facility and our ability to secure a new line of credit on or before the maturity date of the Revolving Credit Agreement. In addition, we experienced a significant operating loss in 2008 and are expected to have an operating loss in 2009. As discussed above, we are in default of certain covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement. These uncertainties raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As such, the independent auditor’s report accompanying our January 31, 2009 financial statements contains an explanatory paragraph regarding these factors, which also constitutes a default under our Revolving Credit Agreement. If we cannot resolve some or all of these factors, we may be unable to maintain a level of liquidity necessary to continue to operate our business. If we are unable to implement our strategic plan, we may be required to further curtail our operations or pursue other available options, although we can provide no assurance that any such steps will allow us to meet our obligations as they become due. The current banking and credit crisis, the high unemployment rate, continued home foreclosures, the rising cost of basic necessities, and the reality that the U.S. has entered a recession created a highly challenging retail environment during 2008 that we anticipate will continue through 2009. These current conditions have negatively impacted our liquidity position and operating performance. There can be no assurances that the implementation of our strategic plan or that the net sales proceeds from the liquidation of inventory in the closing locations will be sufficient to repay the outstanding balance under Finlay Jewelry’s Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, there can be no assurances that our business operations, working capital and borrowing availability will be sufficient to meet current estimates of working capital requirements as well as allow Finlay Jewelry to maintain compliance with the $30.0 million minimum unused balance and other covenants required by the Revolving Credit Agreement. If we are unable to implement our strategic plan and repay the outstanding balance under the Revolving Credit Facility or to improve our liquidity and/or operating performance, we may be required to further curtail our operations or pursue other available options, although we can provide no assurance that any such steps will allow us to meet our obligations as they become due. We are highly leveraged and we may not be able to refinance or restructure our long-term debt before it becomes due in 2012 or identify a new banking relationship to provide a revolving line of credit in 2009. In addition, the terms of our debt instruments impose financial and operating restrictions and we are currently in default with certain covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of January 31, 2009, we had $232.9 million of long-term debt due 2012, which includes the amounts outstanding on the Senior Notes and the Secured Notes, and $236.2 million outstanding under Finlay Jewelry’s Revolving Credit Facility due 2010. We may not be able to refinance or restructure our long-term debt before it becomes due. Additionally, we may not be able to identify a new banking relationship to provide a revolving line of credit after we repay the outstanding balance under Finlay Jewelry’s Revolving Credit Facility in 2009. 11 In addition, the Revolving Credit Agreement and the indentures relating to our long-term debt each contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants include limitations on, or relating to, liens, indebtedness, investments, mergers, acquisitions, affiliated transactions, management compensation and the payment of dividends and other restricted payments. As of January 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all of our covenants. Effective with the February 2009 amendment to the Revolving Credit Agreement, we now are required to achieve certain weekly targeted percentages of our sales and cash receipts and maintain cash disbursements below certain targeted percentages as set forth in our operating plan. We are currently in default of this covenant. Although the lenders reserve all rights and remedies under the Revolving Credit Agreement and can accelerate repayment of the outstanding balance at any time, they have not exercised such rights at this time. As a result of cross-default provisions, such acceleration would enable the holders of our long-term debt to declare a default and demand repayment as well. Our senior management team is in transition. The employment agreement of Arthur E. Reiner, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, expired on January 31, 2009 and Mr. Reiner is currently an employee at will. Joseph M. Melvin, our Chief Operating Officer, plans to retire at the end of June 2009 and Leslie A. Philip, our Chief Merchandising Officer, plans to retire at the end of May 2009. Accordingly, our go forward management team is in transition. Moreover, once the go forward management team is established, there is no assurance that its members will be able to successfully implement our strategic plan. Their failure to do so or our failure to effectively manage changes in senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. A continuation of the recent deterioration of significant portions of the global financial markets, particularly if it worsens, could further negatively impact our performance, both by affecting the levels of sales to our customers and by affecting our counterparties and the U.S. economy generally. Declines in discretionary spending or in the availability of consumer credit could further reduce the volume of merchandise we sell, as well as the sales prices for the merchandise offered, and accordingly, our gross margin. In addition, concerns about the stability of the U.S. financial markets generally have reduced the availability of funding to certain financial institutions, leading to a tightening of credit, reduction of business activity, and increased market volatility. These negative economic conditions may result in financial difficulties for our vendors and the financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities, which could negatively affect us. It is not clear at this time what impact the federal government’s liquidity and funding initiatives that have been announced or that may be initiated in the future will have on the financial markets, on the broader U.S. and global economies, or ultimately on us. Our stand-alone jewelry store business could be adversely affected if it is unable to successfully renegotiate certain on going leases on more favorable lease terms as well as negotiate new leases on acceptable lease terms. All of our stand-alone stores are leased with most having a term of ten years. Rent for those stores is a fixed minimum base plus, for certain of the stores, a percentage of store sales in excess of a specified threshold. We have a number of leases for go forward stores that we intend to renegotiate with landlords in order to operate them in a profitable manner. We have generally been successful in negotiating leases for new stores and lease renewals. However, our stand-alone jewelry store business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected if we are unable to renegotiate certain on going leases on more favorable lease terms as well as negotiate acceptable new and renewal lease terms. 12 We are highly dependent on several key vendors and other suppliers. In 2008, approximately 41.9% of sales were generated by merchandise obtained from our ten largest vendors, and approximately 6.2% of sales were generated by merchandise obtained from our largest vendor. There can be no assurance that we can identify, on a timely basis, alternate sources of merchandise supply in the case of an abrupt loss of any of our significant suppliers. Additionally, we receive allowances from our vendors through a variety of programs and arrangements, including cooperative advertising, and we expect to earn significantly lower levels of these allowances in 2009. During 2008, many of our key vendors were unable to maintain their historical credit terms with us as a result of our deteriorating liquidity. Many of these vendors became party to the Third Lien Notes for $24.9 million of trade payable balances in February 2009. Additional restrictions on the credit limits or payment terms that we have with our vendors could have a further adverse impact on our liquidity position. The seasonality of the retail jewelry business makes our profitability substantially dependent on our fourth quarter results. Our business is highly seasonal, with a significant portion of our sales and income from operations generated during the fourth quarter of each year, which includes the year-end holiday season. We have typically experienced net losses in the first three quarters of our fiscal year. During these periods, working capital requirements have been funded by borrowings under our Revolving Credit Agreement. This pattern is expected to continue. A substantial decrease in sales during the fourth quarter, whether resulting from adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, supply chain problems or any other cause, would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and our financial condition. A continuing decline in discretionary consumer spending has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our industry, our operations and our profitability. Luxury products, such as fine jewelry, are discretionary purchases for consumers. Any reduction in consumer discretionary spending or disposable income may affect our industry more significantly than other industries. Many economic factors outside of our control have affected and could continue to affect consumer discretionary spending, including the financial markets, consumer credit availability, prevailing interest rates, energy costs, employment levels, salary levels and tax rates. A continued reduction in discretionary consumer spending could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition, especially if such changes were to occur in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Our locations are heavily dependent on customer traffic and the continued popularity of malls. The success of our specialty jewelry stores depends, in part, on our ability to generate customer traffic in our stores, and on the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations. Customer traffic, sales volume and earnings have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic slowdowns or adverse weather conditions in a particular geographic area, the closing of anchor tenants, or competition from retailers such as discount and mass merchandise stores and other specialty jewelry stores. Volatility in the availability and cost of precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones could adversely affect our business. The jewelry industry in general is affected by fluctuations in the prices of precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones. The availability and prices of gold, diamonds and other precious metals and precious and semi-precious stones may be influenced by cartels, political instability in exporting countries and inflation. Shortages of these materials or sharp changes in their prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. A significant change in prices of key commodities, including gold and diamonds, could adversely affect our business by reducing operating margins and impacting consumer demand if retail prices are increased significantly. Moreover, human rights issues in countries exporting diamonds and other precious gemstones may affect consumer demand for these products. 13 The retail jewelry business is highly competitive. We face competition for retail jewelry sales from national and regional jewelry chains, department stores which operate their own fine jewelry departments, local independently owned jewelry stores, specialty stores, mass merchandisers, catalog showrooms, discounters, direct mail suppliers, internet merchants and televised home shopping. Some of our competitors are substantially larger and have greater financial resources than us. Competition may result in price pressure, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to identify and rapidly respond to fashion trends. The jewelry industry is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and shifting consumer demands. Accordingly, our success depends on the priority that our target customers place on fashion and our ability to anticipate, identify and capitalize upon emerging fashion trends. If we misjudge fashion trends and are unable to adjust our product offerings in a timely manner, our net sales may decline or fail to meet expectations and any excessive inventory may need to be sold at lower prices. We could be materially adversely affected if our distribution operations are disrupted. In conjunction with our strategic plan, we are currently evaluating alternatives to move the distribution of merchandise for our go forward specialty store business to a new location. During the transition to a new facility, we could incur higher costs and longer lead times to distribute merchandise to our stores. We are heavily dependent on our management information systems and our ability to maintain and upgrade these systems from time to time. The efficient operation of our business is heavily dependent on our management information systems. In particular, we rely on our inventory and merchandising control systems, which allow us to make better decisions in the allocation and distribution of our merchandise. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected if our systems were inoperable or inaccessible or if we were not able, for any reason, to successfully restore our systems and fully execute our disaster recovery plan. From time to time, we improve and upgrade our management information systems. If we are unable to maintain and upgrade our systems or to integrate new and updated systems in an efficient and timely manner, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The future impact of legal and regulatory issues is unknown. Our business is subject to government laws and regulations including, but not limited to, employment laws and regulations, state advertising regulations, quality standards imposed by federal law, and other laws and regulations. A violation or change of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the future impact of litigation arising in the ordinary course of business may have an adverse effect on our financial results or reputation. We could have failures in our system of internal control over financial reporting. We maintain a documented system of internal control over financial reporting which is reviewed and monitored by management, who meet regularly with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe we have a well-designed system to maintain adequate internal control; however, there can be no assurances that control deficiencies will not arise in the future. Although we have devoted significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal control, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls will be adequate in the future or that adequate controls will be effective in preventing fraud. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on the accuracy of our financial statements and our ability to detect fraud and could cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. 14 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 