Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to significant risks. The risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements, should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. Risks Related to Our Business Current economic conditions may affect consumer spending and could significantly harm our business. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors beyond our control affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that we offer, including, among other things: general economic and industry conditions; unemployment; the housing market; current deterioration in consumer confidence; crude oil prices that affect gasoline and diesel fuel, as well as, increases in other fuels used to support utilities; food prices and their effect on consumer discretionary spending; efforts by our customers to reduce debt levels; interest rates; fluctuations in the financial markets; tax rates and policies; war, terrorism and other hostilities; and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The merchandise we sell generally consists of discretionary items. Reduced consumer confidence and spending cut backs may result in reduced demand for our merchandise, including discretionary items, and may force us to take significant inventory markdowns. Reduced demand also may require increased selling and promotional expenses. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in consumer demand for our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face a number of risks in opening new stores and relocating or expanding existing stores. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue expansion and relocation opportunities in our existing store base as well as open new stores. For both new stores and relocations, we negotiate for upgraded sites. With the expansion opportunities, we are working with high producing stores to increase the selling square footage. To that end, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012 we plan to add more stores than in prior years and expand or relocate existing stores if we locate attractive opportunities to do so. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to achieve our relocation or expansion goals or that we will be able to operate any new or relocated stores profitably. Further, we cannot assure that any new, relocated or expanded store will achieve similar operating results to those of our existing stores or that new, relocated or expanded stores opened in markets in which we operate will not have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our existing store base. The success of our planned expansion will be dependent upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: the ability of our personnel to adequately analyze and identify suitable markets and individual store sites within those markets; the competition for suitable store sites; our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords; our ability to obtain governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate our stores; the availability of employees to staff new stores and our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain store personnel; the availability of adequate management and financial resources to properly manage a large volume of stores; our ability to adapt our distribution and other operational and management systems to a changing network of stores; and our ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new, relocated or expanded stores profitably. 12 Table of Contents We opened stores in new markets during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and intend to enter into additional new markets in fiscal 2012 and beyond. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. Our business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on us. The retail home furnishings and housewares industry is intensely competitive. As a closeout retailer of home furnishings and housewares, we currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including department and discount stores, specialty and e-commerce retailers and mass merchants, which sell, among other products, home furnishing and houseware products similar and often identical to those we sell. We also compete in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of home furnishing and houseware products that we sell. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources that may allow them to initiate and sustain aggressive price competition. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: increased operational efficiencies of competitors; competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic uncertainty; continued and prolonged promotional activity by competitors; liquidation sales by a number of our competitors who have filed or will file for bankruptcy; expansion by existing competitors; entry by new competitors into markets in which we currently operate; and adoption by existing competitors of innovative store formats or retail sales methods. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, or that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors will not materially harm our business. We compete for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional, national and international retailers. We also face competition from alternative retail distribution channels such as catalogues and, increasingly, internet websites. Changes in the merchandising, pricing and promotional activities of those competitors, and in the retail industry, in general, may adversely affect our performance. Our operating results depend on our website, network infrastructure and transaction-processing systems. Capacity constraints or system failures would harm our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Any system interruptions that result in the reduced performance of our transaction systems, including our point of sale systems, merchandising systems, or website, could reduce our transaction volume and the attractiveness of the services that we provide to customers and could harm our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. We use internally developed systems for our website and certain aspects of transaction processing, including personalization databases utilized for internal analytics, recommendations and order verifications. We have experienced periodic systems interruptions due to server failure and power failure, which we believe will continue to occur from time to time. If the volume of traffic on our website or the number of purchases made by customers increases substantially, we will need to further expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience temporary capacity constraints due to sharply increased traffic during sales or other promotions and during the holiday shopping season. Capacity constraints can cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, delayed page presentation, degradation in levels of customer service, impaired quality and delays in reporting accurate financial information. 13 Table of Contents Our transaction processing systems and network infrastructure may be unable to accommodate increases in traffic in the future. We may be unable to project accurately the rate or timing of traffic increases or successfully upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate future traffic levels on our website. In addition, we may be unable to upgrade and expand our transaction processing systems in an effective and timely manner or to integrate any newly developed or purchased functionality within our existing systems. Any such difficulties with our transaction processing systems or other difficulties upgrading, expanding or integrating various aspects of our systems may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, and degradation in levels of customer service, additional expense, impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment or delays in reporting accurate financial information. Failure to adequately maintain security and prevent unauthorized access to electronic and other confidential information could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results We are heavily dependent upon automated technology processes. Third parties that can penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers' personal information or credit card information could subject us to certain negative repercussions. These repercussions could negatively impact our competitive advantage, our customers' confidence level, and subject us to potential litigation and fines/penalties. While we remain in compliance with Payment Card Industry requirements, we cannot assure you that our security measures will prevent security breaches or that failure to prevent such security breaches will not harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Compromises of our data security could materially harm our reputation and business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and associates, and we process customer payment card and check information. We may suffer unauthorized intrusions into portions of our computer system that process and store information related to customer transactions. We have taken steps designed to strengthen the security of our computer system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to data security. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a data compromise. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential information. Further, the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. This is also true for check information and approval. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential Company business information. In addition, a Company associate, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information and inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption technology, new tools and other developments may increase the risk of such a breach. Any such compromise of our data security and loss of personal or business information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and customers' willingness to shop in our stores, violate applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material. We must continuously attract buying opportunities for closeout merchandise and anticipate consumer demand as closeout merchandise becomes available. By its nature, specific closeout merchandise items are available from manufacturers or vendors generally on a non-recurring basis. As a result, we do not have long-term contracts with our vendors for supply, pricing or access to products, but make individual purchase decisions, which are often for 14 Table of Contents large quantities. With the disruption in the financial and credit markets, certain of our manufacturers and suppliers may cease operations or may otherwise become unable to continue supplying closeout merchandise on terms acceptable to us. We further cannot assure that manufacturers or vendors will continue to make closeout merchandise available to us in quantities acceptable to us or that our buyers will continue to identify and take advantage of appropriate buying opportunities. In addition, if we misjudge consumer demand for products, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant markdowns and miss opportunities to sell more popular products. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or to accurately anticipate consumer demand for such merchandise would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of, or disruption in the operations of, our centralized distribution center would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. With minor exceptions, all inventory is shipped directly from suppliers to our centralized distribution center in the Dallas, Texas metropolitan area, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to our stores or shipped directly to our customers who purchase merchandise from our online website. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. We cannot assure that we have anticipated all of the changing demands which our expanding operations will impose on our receiving and distribution system or that events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, will not result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. We also cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution center is shut down for any reason. Our freight costs and thus our cost of goods sold are impacted by changes in fuel prices. Our freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. Fuel prices and surcharges affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to our distribution center and outbound freight from our distribution center to our stores. In addition, the U.S. government requires drivers of over-the-road trucks to take certain rest periods which reduce the available amount of time they can drive during a 24-hour period. High fuel prices or surcharges, as well as stringent driver regulations, may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of goods sold. The loss or departure of one or more members of our senior management or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future performance will depend in large part upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Kathleen Mason, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and our other key employees, including our buyers. The loss of service of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. We do not maintain key person life insurance for Ms. Mason or our other senior management. We only have employment agreements with Ms. Mason and Mr. Michael Marchetti, our Chief Operating Officer, and have no such agreements with any other members of senior management or our buyers. If we are not able to generate strong cash flows from our operations, we will not be able to support capital expansion, operations and debt repayment. Our business is dependent upon our operations generating strong cash flows to support our capital expansion requirements and our general operating activities. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could adversely affect our financial performance. 15 Table of Contents An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. Merchandise manufactured and imported from overseas represents the majority of our total product purchases acquired both domestically and internationally. A disruption in the shipping of imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. In addition, if imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Products from alternative sources may also be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Risks associated with our reliance on imported products include disruptions in the shipping and importation or increases in the costs of imported products because of factors such as: raw material shortages; work stoppages; strikes and political unrest; problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; increased customs inspections of import shipments or other factors causing delays in shipments; economic crises; international disputes and wars; loss of "most favored nation" trading status by the United States in relation to a particular foreign country; import duties; import quotas and other trade sanctions; and increases in shipping rates. The products we buy abroad are sometimes priced in foreign currencies and, therefore, we are affected by fluctuating exchange rates. In the past, we have entered into foreign currency exchange contracts with major financial institutions to hedge these fluctuations. We might not be able to successfully protect ourselves in the future against currency rate fluctuations, and our financial performance could suffer as a result. You should read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for more information about our foreign currency exchange rate exposure and hedging activities. Our success depends upon our marketing, advertising and promotional efforts. If we are unable to implement them successfully, or if our competitors are more effective than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. We use marketing and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores and to encourage purchases by our customers. We use various media for our promotional efforts, including print, television, database marketing, email, direct marketing, and other electronic communications such as online social networks. If we fail to choose the appropriate medium for our efforts, or fail to implement and execute new marketing opportunities, our competitors may be able to attract some of our customers and cause them to decrease purchases from us and increase purchases elsewhere, which would negatively impact our revenues. Changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy by our competitors could cause us to have difficulties in retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. If we do not attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers, as well as, experienced buying and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. Our performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers, as well as, experienced buying and management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors, such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. In the event of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages competitively, our customer service could suffer because of a declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings would decrease if we increase our wage rates. Changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality associates and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. 16 Table of Contents Our results of operations are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. Our business is subject to seasonality with a higher level of our net sales and operating income generated during the quarter ended December 31, which includes the holiday shopping season. Net sales in the quarters ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 accounted for approximately 34%, 35%, and 34%, respectively, of our annual net sales for such years. Operating income for the quarters ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 accounted for approximately 157%, 150%, and 845%, respectively, of our annual operating income for such years. For more information about our seasonality, please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationQuarterly Results and Seasonality." Because a significant percentage of our net sales and operating income are generated in the quarter ending December 31, we have limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in December quarter sales or earnings by changes in our operations or strategies in other quarters. A significant shortfall in results for the quarter ending December 31 of any year could have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations may also fluctuate significantly based on such factors as: the timing of new store openings; the amount of net sales contributed by new and existing stores; the success of our store expansion and relocation program; the timing of certain holidays and sales events; changes in our merchandise mix; general economic, industry and weather conditions that affect consumer spending; and actions of competitors, including promotional activity. A failure to grow or maintain our comparable store sales may adversely affect our results of operations. Our comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe such fluctuations may continue given the current economic climate and uncertainty of consumer spending. Our comparable store sales decreased 1.2% for fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, increased 2.2% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, and decreased 12.5% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The unpredictability of our comparable store sales may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or operating income may cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. A failure to grow or maintain our comparable store sales results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: competition; general regional and national economic conditions; inclement weather; consumer trends, such as less spending due the impact of high unemployment rates; changes in our merchandise mix; our ability to distribute merchandise efficiently to our stores; timing and type of sales events, promotional activities or other advertising; new merchandise introductions; and our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our certificate of incorporation, and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws will have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; a requirement that stockholder meetings may only be called by our President and Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board or at the written request of a majority of the directors then in office and not our stockholders; a prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; the ability of our Board of Directors to make, alter or repeal our bylaws without further stockholder 17 Table of Contents approval; and the requirement for advance notice for nominations for directors to our Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. Because we do not presently have plans to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. On February 1, 2008, our Board of Directors voted to terminate the declaration of an annual cash dividend. The Board of Directors will consider the full range of alternatives with regard to the use of any excess cash flow in the future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon various factors, including our business, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and investment opportunities. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. The price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially over the past several years and may continue to fluctuate substantially in the future. From June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2011, the trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $3.51 per share to a high of $5.93 per share. We expect our stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including factors beyond our control, which have been included throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or securities analysts at some time in the future, and our stock price could decline as a result. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 