risk factors, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide whether to purchase our common stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We could experience significantly reduced revenues and profits if payers change, delay or deny reimbursement Sales of a significant portion of our operating segments depend on the continued availability of reimbursement by government and private insurance plans. Any reduction in Medicare or other government program or private plan reimbursements currently available for our products would reduce our revenues. Certain significant reimbursement reductions that became effective January 1, 2005 under the Medicare Modernization Act are discussed in Item 2 of Part I “Overview.” Other future reimbursement reductions are possible. Without a corresponding reduction in the cost of such products, the result would be a reduction in our overall profit margin. Similarly, any increase in the cost of such products would reduce our overall profit margin unless there was a corresponding increase in Medicare or other government program reimbursement. Our profits also could be affected by the imposition of more stringent regulatory requirements for Medicare or other government program reimbursement or adjustments to previously reimbursed amounts. The government’s Medicare regulations are complex and sometimes subjective and therefore may require management’s interpretation. Overpayments by Medicare and others occur in the normal course of business and reserves are recorded when, based upon our assessment of the facts and circumstances, we believe that the amounts due to Medicare and others are probable and estimable. The impact of Medicare Part D on the Pharmacy segment is unclear The Medicare Modernization Act provides for a voluntary prescription drug benefit, the Medicare Prescription Drug program (“Part D”), which gives beneficiaries access to prescription drug coverage. We are currently unable to assess the impact of Part D on our operating results. The program is in its infancy and involves many challenges. We will continue to closely monitor the implementation of Part D, the cost of coordinating Part D benefits for our Diabetes patients and their spouses, and the potential net revenue and earnings impact. While we are committed to investing in this long term opportunity, the ultimate impact of such investment depends upon many factors, specifically upon our success in continuing to enroll new patients at the current rate and our ability to successfully adjudicate claims and order timing. If we prove unsuccessful in our efforts to enroll patients in the program at a level sufficient to support our investment, the operating results of our Pharmacy segment will be negatively impacted. In addition, we presently are a participating pharmacy in approximately 80% of the 2,172 prescription drug plans and the 36,348 Medicare Advantage-Prescription Drug Plans that have been approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services under Part D through Leader Drug Stores, Inc. While the “any willing pharmacy” provisions of the Medicare Modernization Act would allow us to contract directly with these plans in the event we were no longer permitted to participate in this retail pharmacy network, entering into individual contracts with those prescription drug plans of which our patients are members could be time-consuming and we could suffer patient attrition as a result. In addition, certain prescription drug plans have excluded Liberty as a participating pharmacy in their plans which we believe is a violation of the “any willing pharmacy” provisions of the Medicare Modernization Act. We are presently working to resolve these issues. Competitive bidding for durable medical equipment suppliers could negatively affect our Diabetes segment The Medicare Modernization Act further provides for a program for competitive bidding of certain durable medical equipment items, which are expected to include diabetes test strips and other diabetes testing items, beginning in calendar year 2007. The competitive bidding program is expected to be implemented in up to ten metropolitan areas in 2007 and then gradually implemented in additional competitive bid areas. Under the proposed competitive bidding regulations, a regional or national mail order DMEPOS competitive bidding program may be implemented in 2010. If the Diabetes segment is excluded from the bid award or the bid does not place value on Liberty’s patient service model, our operating results could be negatively affected. If CMS uses its inherent reasonableness authority to reduce payment amounts in areas that are not competitively bid based on competitive bidding results, our operating results could be negatively affected. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to a corporate integrity agreement As part of the civil settlement with the DOJ and OIG, we entered into a five-year corporate integrity agreement on November 8, 2004. This agreement provides for an annual review of a sample of our Medicare claims by an independent review organization for a 5-year period, which could be reduced to a shorter period at the discretion of the OIG, and obligates us to continue our compliance program and the measures we have implemented to promote our compliance with Medicare regulations. Should the financial error rate of the sample reviewed by the independent review organization for any given period, exceed the acceptable error rate, we could be subject to a potentially material overpayment assessment for that period. We are currently involved in litigation and could experience reduced net income if this litigation is not resolved in our favor PolyMedica and three former officers of PolyMedica are defendants in a lawsuit alleging violations of certain sections and rules of the Exchange Act, which was initiated in U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts in November 2000. PolyMedica believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims made against it in this action in which it is a defendant and intends to contest the claims vigorously. We cannot accurately predict the outcome of this proceeding at this time, and have therefore not recorded any charges relating to this proceeding. An unfavorable outcome could cause us to be liable for damages, which would reduce our net income in any such period. Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage for such damages. Please see Note J, Commitments and Contingencies, for a more complete description of this claim. We could experience significantly reduced profits from our Diabetes segment if new technologies that reduce or eliminate the need for consumable testing supplies are developed for glucose monitoring The majority of our Diabetes net revenues are from consumable testing supplies, used to draw and test small quantities of blood for the purpose of measuring and monitoring glucose levels. Numerous research efforts are underway to develop more convenient and less intrusive glucose measurement techniques. The commercialization and widespread acceptance of new technologies that eliminate or reduce the need for consumable testing supplies could negatively affect our Diabetes segment. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a materially adverse effect on our stock price We must continue to document, test and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual reports by management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to management’s assessment and the effectiveness of the internal control. We have expended and expect that we will continue to expend significant time and resources documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting. While management’s evaluation as of March 31, 2006 resulted in the conclusion that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of that date, we cannot predict the outcome of testing in future periods. If we conclude in future periods that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is not able to render the required attestations, it could result in lost investor confidence in the accuracy, reliability and completeness of our financial reports. Any such events could have a materially adverse effect on our stock price. The market price of our common stock may experience substantial fluctuations for reasons over which we have little control Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market System. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially based on a variety of factors, including, among others: • fluctuations in our quarterly results; • announcements concerning us, our competitors, or manufacturers with whom we have relationships or the healthcare market; • overall volatility of the stock market; • changes in government regulations; • changes in the financial estimates we provide to the market or estimates by analysts; and 12 Table of Contents • loss of key executives. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. These fluctuations, coupled with changes in our results of operations and general economic, political and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We plan to continue our expansion; if we do not manage our growth successfully, our growth and profitability may slow or stop The expansion of our operations has created significant demand on our administrative, operational and financial personnel and other resources. Additional expansion in existing or new markets including Part D could strain these resources and increase our need for capital. Our personnel, systems, procedures, controls and existing space may not be adequate to support further expansion. Geopolitical events may reduce our ability to obtain favorable advertising rates for our direct-response advertising efforts, which may increase our expenses and/or lead to a reduction in revenues The effectiveness of our direct-response advertising is subject to the risks arising from geopolitical events. For example, around the clock news coverage at the onset of the war in Iraq and the war on terrorism affected our ability to obtain favorable rates for our product advertisements and thus affected our ability to obtain new patients since we reduced our advertising. Such geopolitical events may in the foreseeable future have a negative impact on our results of operations by increasing our expenses and/or leading to a reduction in our revenues. The profitability of our segments will decrease if we do not receive recurring orders from patients The profitability of our segments depends in large part on recurring and sustained reorders. Reorder rates are inherently uncertain due to several factors, many of which are outside our control, including changing patient preferences, competitive price pressures, patient transition to extended care facilities, patient mortality and general economic conditions. We generally incur losses and negative cash flow with respect to the first order from a new patient, due primarily to the marketing and regulatory compliance costs associated with initial patient qualification. We could experience a charge to earnings as a result of an impairment of our goodwill, direct-response advertising or other intangible assets We are required to perform impairment tests annually and whenever events or changes in circumstance suggest that the carrying value of goodwill, direct-response advertising or other intangible assets may not be recoverable. The valuation of our goodwill, direct-response advertising and other intangible assets is based upon the results of these impairment tests. Changes in assumptions used and forecasted results of operations for the reporting unit carrying goodwill, direct-response advertising or other intangible assets, could affect the quantification of an impairment value, should one exist. Since our growth strategy may involve the acquisition of other companies, we may record additional goodwill in the future. The possible write-off of this goodwill could negatively impact our future earnings. We will also be required to allocate a portion of the purchase price of any acquisition to the value of non-competition agreements, patient base and contracts that are acquired. The amount allocated to these items could be amortized over a fairly short period. As a result, our earnings and the market price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. We could be liable for harm caused by products that we sell and may incur significant expenses in connection with the defense of any product liability claims The sale of medical products entails the risk that users will make product liability claims. If any such product liability claim is successful, we could be liable for a significant amount of damages. Even if we are ultimately successful on the merits of any such claim, we could incur significant expenses in connection with the defense of any such claim. Our insurance may not provide adequate coverage for any such damages and/or expenses. We could lose patients and revenues to new or existing competitors Competition from other sellers of products offered through our Diabetes and Pharmacy segments, manufacturers of healthcare products, pharmaceutical companies and other competitors is intense and expected to increase. Many of our competitors and potential competitors are large companies with well-known names and substantial resources. These companies may develop products and services that are more effective or less expensive than any that we are developing or selling. They may also promote and market these 13 Table of Contents products more successfully than we promote and market our products. Loss of use of data storage facilities could significantly reduce revenues and profits from our businesses We process and store most of our patient data in our facilities in Port St. Lucie, Florida. If we cannot use any of these facilities as a result of the FDA, Occupational Safety and Health Administration or other regulatory action, fire, natural disaster or other event, our revenues and profits would decrease significantly. For example, as a result of the disruption caused by the two hurricanes sustained by our Port St. Lucie based facilities in September 2004, excluding amounts that have been reimbursed to us under our property and casualty and business interruption insurance, we experienced reduced revenues of approximately $3.60 million and incurred losses in excess of $1.50 million. If we or our suppliers do not comply with applicable government regulations, we may be prohibited from selling our products and/or may incur fines and other expenses The majority of the products that we sell are regulated by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. If any of these agencies mandate a suspension of production or sales of our products or mandate a recall, we may lose sales and incur fines and other expenses until we are in compliance with the regulations or change to another acceptable supplier. We depend on key employees and the loss of a key employee could adversely affect our business. Our future performance will depend in part on the efforts and abilities of our key employees, and the loss of their services could have an adverse effect on our business. We have no key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. Our quarterly revenues or operating results could vary, which may cause the market price of our securities to decline We have experienced fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and anticipate that such fluctuations could continue. Results may vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including: • changes in reimbursement guidelines and amounts; • changes in regulations affecting the healthcare industry; • changes in suppliers; • the timing of patient orders; • the timing and cost of our advertising campaigns; • the timing of the introduction or acceptance of new products offered by us or our competitors; and • changes in the mix of our products; product costs are significantly influenced by the product brand chosen by the patients of our diabetes segment. We provide a wide range of product brand choices to our patients, purchased at varying costs from suppliers. Our ability to sustain current gross margin levels is dependent both on our ability to continue securing favorable pricing from suppliers and on the brand choices of our patients. A reduction in working capital or a change in our business could prevent us from paying dividends to shareholders A significant decline in our cash balances or a change in our business could cause us to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends to shareholders. We may make acquisitions that will strain our financial and operational resources We regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses’ products and assets. Acquisitions involve a number of risks that might adversely affect our financial and operational resources, including: • diversion of the attention of senior management from important business matters; 14 Table of Contents • amortization of substantial intangible assets; • difficulty in retaining key personnel of an acquired business; • lack of adequate internal control over financial reporting; • failure to assimilate operations of an acquired business; • possible operating losses and expenses of an acquired business; • exposure to legal claims for activities of an acquired business prior to acquisition; and • incurrence of debt and related interest expense. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to obtain the intended benefits of any of these potential acquisitions. We could also require substantial capital resources to acquire complementary products or businesses. We cannot be certain that existing or additional financing would be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We may issue preferred stock with rights senior to our common stock Our articles of organization authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock without shareholder approval. The shares may have dividend, voting, liquidation and other rights and preferences that are senior to the rights of our common stock. The rights and preferences of any such class or series of preferred stock would be established by our Board in its sole discretion. Adverse results in tax audits could result in significant cash expenditures or exposure to unforeseen liabilities We are subject to periodic federal, state and local income tax audits for various tax years. Although we attempt to comply with all taxing authority regulations, adverse findings or assessments made by the taxing authorities as the result of an audit could materially adversely affect us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 