Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to significant risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this Form 10-K/T, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of the events described below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected in a material way. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We face a number of risks in opening new stores. As part of our growth strategy, we will pursue expansion and relocation opportunities in our existing store base as well as open new stores. For both new stores and relocations, we are negotiating for upgraded sites. With the expansion opportunities, we will be working with high producing stores and increasing the selling square footage. We believe this will benefit us and better position us for the long-term while still maintaining a low cost per square foot in rent expense. To that end, for fiscal 2008 we plan to add approximately 50 net new stores representing a 6% growth rate, expand approximately 25 existing stores and relocate approximately 50 existing stores. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to achieve our relocation or expansion goals or that we will be able to operate our new stores profitably. Further, we cannot assure that any new store will achieve similar operating results to those of our existing stores or that new stores opened in markets in which we operate will not have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our existing stores. The success of our planned expansion will be dependent upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: •the ability of our personnel to adequately analyze and identify suitable markets and individual store sites within those markets; •the competition for suitable store sites; •our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms with landlords; •our ability to obtain governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to operate our stores; •the availability of employees to staff new stores and our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain store personnel; •the availability of adequate management and financial resources to properly manage an increased number of stores; •our ability to adapt our distribution and other operational and management systems to an expanded network of stores; and •our ability to attract customers and generate sales sufficient to operate new stores profitably. We opened stores in new markets during the six month period ended June 30, 2007 and in several new markets during calendar year 2006. We intend to enter into additional new markets in fiscal 2008 and beyond. These markets may have different competitive conditions, consumer trends and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new stores in these markets to be less successful than stores in our existing markets. 11 Poor economic conditions affect consumer spending and may significantly harm our business. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the level of consumer spending. A number of factors affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise that we offer, including, among other things: •general economic, industry and weather conditions; •housing market; •high crude oil prices, that affect gasoline and heating oil prices; •the debt market; •the level of consumer debt; •interest rates; •tax rates and policies; •war, terrorism and other hostilities; and •consumer confidence in future economic conditions. The merchandise we sell generally consists of discretionary items. Reduced consumer confidence, lower housing starts and spending cut backs may result in reduced demand for our discretionary items and may force us to take significant inventory markdowns. Reduced demand also may require increased selling and promotional expenses. Adverse economic conditions and any related decrease in consumer demand for discretionary items could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and results of operations are subject to a broad range of uncertainties arising out of world events. Our business and results of operations are subject to uncertainties arising out of world events. These uncertainties may include a global economy slowdown, changes in consumer spending, changes in debt markets, the increase in gasoline and natural gas prices, the outbreak of illnesses and the economic consequences of military action or additional terrorist activities. Any future events arising as a result of terrorist activity or other world events may have a material impact on our business, our ability to source products, results of operations and financial condition in the future. Our business is intensely competitive and increased or new competition could have a material adverse effect on us. The retail home furnishings industry is intensely competitive. As a closeout retailer of home furnishings, we currently compete against a diverse group of retailers, including department and discount stores, specialty and e-commerce retailers and mass merchants, which sell, among other products, home furnishing products similar and often identical to those we sell. We also compete in particular markets with a substantial number of retailers that specialize in one or more types of home furnishing and houseware products that we sell. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources that may allow them to initiate and sustain aggressive price competition. A number of different competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: •increased operational efficiencies of competitors; •competitive pricing strategies, including deep discount pricing by a broad range of retailers during periods of poor consumer confidence or economic instability; 12 •continued and prolonged promotional activity by competitors; •expansion by existing competitors; •entry by new competitors into markets in which we currently operate; and •adoption by existing competitors of innovative store formats or retail sales methods, including e-commerce and gift cards. We cannot assure that we will be able to continue to compete successfully with our existing or new competitors, or that prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors will not materially harm our business. We must continuously attract buying opportunities for closeout merchandise and anticipate consumer demand as closeout merchandise becomes available. By its nature, specific closeout merchandise items are available from manufacturers or vendors generally on a non-recurring basis. As a result, we do not have long-term contracts with our vendors for supply, pricing or access to products, but make individual purchase decisions, which are often for large quantities. Although we have many sources of merchandise and do not foresee any shortages of closeout merchandise in the near future, we cannot assure that manufacturers or vendors will continue to make closeout merchandise available to us in quantities or on terms acceptable to us or that our buyers will continue to identify and take advantage of appropriate buying opportunities. In addition, if we misjudge consumer demand for products, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant markdowns and miss opportunities to sell more popular products. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or to accurately anticipate consumer demand for such merchandise would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of, or disruption in, our centralized distribution center would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. With minor exceptions, all inventory is shipped directly from suppliers to our centralized distribution center in the Dallas, Texas metropolitan area, where the inventory is then processed, sorted and shipped to our stores. We depend in large part on the orderly operation of this receiving and distribution process, which depends, in turn, on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management of the distribution center. We cannot assure that we have anticipated all of the changing demands which our expanding operations will impose on our receiving and distribution system or that events beyond our control, such as disruptions in operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements or shipping problems, will not result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores. We also cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient, or that insurance proceeds will be timely paid to us, in the event our distribution center is shut down for any reason. Our freight cost is impacted by changes in fuel prices through surcharges. Fuel prices and surcharges affect freight cost both on inbound freight from vendors to our distribution center and outbound freight from our distribution center to our stores. In addition, the U.S. government requires drivers of over-the-road trucks to take certain rest periods which reduce the available amount of time they can drive during a 24 hour period. Increases in fuel prices and surcharges, as well as stringent driver regulations, may increase freight costs and thereby increase our cost of goods sold. The loss or departure of one or more members of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future performance will depend in large part upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, particularly Kathleen Mason, our Chief Executive Officer, and our other key employees, 13 including our buyers. The loss of service of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. We do not maintain key person life insurance for Ms. Mason or our other senior management. We are dependent on external funding sources, which may not make available to us sufficient funds when we need them. We, like other retailers, rely on external funding sources to finance our operations and growth. Our ability to obtain additional financing is dependent upon our future operating performance, general economic and competitive conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. An increase in the cost or a disruption in the flow of our imported products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. Merchandise manufactured and imported from overseas is the majority of our total product purchases acquired both domestically and internationally. A disruption in the shipping of our imported merchandise or an increase in the cost of those products may significantly decrease our sales and profits. In addition, if imported merchandise becomes more expensive or unavailable, the transition to alternative sources may not occur in time to meet our demands. Products from alternative sources may also be of lesser quality and more expensive than those we currently import. Risks associated with our reliance on imported products include: •disruptions in the shipping and importation of imported products because of factors such as: •raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; •problems with oceanic shipping, including shipping container shortages; •increased custom inspections of import shipments or other factors causing delays in shipments; •economic crises, international disputes and wars; and •increases in the cost of purchasing or shipping foreign merchandise resulting from: •loss of "most favored nation" trading status by the United States in relation to a particular foreign country; •import duties, import quotas and other trade sanctions; and •increases in shipping rates. The products we buy abroad are often priced in foreign currencies and, therefore, we are affected by fluctuating exchange rates. In the past, we have entered into foreign currency exchange contracts with major financial institutions to hedge these fluctuations. We might not be able to successfully protect ourselves in the future against currency rate fluctuations, and our financial performance could suffer as a result. You should read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for more information about our foreign currency exchange rate exposure and hedging activities. We are subject to environmental regulations. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, current or previous owners or occupants of property may become liable for the costs of removing any hazardous substances found on the property. These laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to fault. As of June 30, 2007, we leased all but one of our stores and 444,000 square feet of land containing a 14 30,000 square foot building. We own 1,318,000 square feet of distribution facilities. In addition, we operate three aboveground diesel storage tanks at our distributions facilities. We could incur costs in the future related to our leased properties, owned buildings or storage tanks. We cannot assure that our policies and training will successfully help us avoid potential violations of these environmental laws and regulations in the future. Our success depends upon our marketing, advertising and promotional efforts. If we are unable to implement them successfully, or if our competitors are more effective than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected. We use marketing and promotional programs to attract customers to our stores and to encourage purchases by our customers. We use various media for our promotional efforts, including print, television, database marketing and direct marketing. If we fail to choose the appropriate medium for our efforts, or fail to implement and execute new marketing opportunities, our competitors may be able to attract some of our customers and cause them to decrease purchases in our stores and increase purchases elsewhere, which could negatively impact our revenues. Changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or merchandising strategy by our competitors could cause us to have difficulties in retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. Inclimate weather in the markets in which our stores operate could adversely affect our operating results. Customers' willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our stores is affected by adverse and inclimate weather. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable temperatures in our markets could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns. We operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete effectively. The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and other important aspects of our business with many other local, regional, national and international retailers. We also face competition from alternative retail distribution channels such as catalogues and internet websites. Changes in the merchandising, pricing and promotional activities of those competitors and in the retail industry generally, may adversely affect our performance. If we do not attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers, as well as, experienced buying and management personnel, our performance could be adversely affected. Our performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other associates in large numbers, as well as, experienced buying and management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. In the event of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages competitively, our customer service could suffer because of a declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings would decrease if we increase our wage rates. Further, our off-price model limits the market for experienced buying and management personnel and requires us to do significant internal training and development. Changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and retain quality associates and management personnel could adversely affect our performance. 15 If we are unable to operate information systems and implement new technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our sales or profitability could be reduced. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and successfully to implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. In addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers' data. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. If we are not able to generate strong cash flows from our operations, we will not be able to support capital expansion, operations and debt repayment. Our business is dependent upon our operations generating strong cash flows to support our capital expansion requirements, our general operating activities and to fund debt repayment. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could adversely affect our financial performance and our earnings per share growth. We maintain internal controls over financial reporting, but they cannot provide absolute assurance that there will not be material errors in our financial reporting. We maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting, but there are limitations inherent in internal control systems. If we are unable to maintain adequate and effective internal control over financial reporting, our financial reporting could be adversely affected. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be appropriate relative to their costs. Changes in Customer Demands Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Sales, Operating Results and Cash Flow. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demands and preferences for products and supplies used in creative activities. If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow. However, shortages of key items could also have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Weak Holiday Sales Would Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results. Our business is highly seasonal. Our inventories and short-term borrowings, if any, grow in the quarters ending June 30 and September 30 as we prepare for our peak selling season in the quarters ending September 30 and December 31. Our most important quarter in terms of sales, profitability and cash flow historically has been the quarter ending December 31. If for any reason our quarter ending December 31 results were substantially below expectations, our operating results for the full year would be materially adversely affected, and we could have substantial excess inventory. 16 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our results of operations are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our business is highly seasonal, with a significant portion of our net sales and operating income generated during the quarter ending December 31, which includes the holiday shopping season. Net sales in the quarters ended December 31 of 2006, 2005 and 2004 accounted for approximately 35%, 36% and 37%, respectively, of annual net sales for such years. Operating income for the quarters ended December 31 of 2006, 2005 and 2004 accounted for approximately 64%, 58% and 59%, respectively, of annual operating income for such years. For more information about our seasonality, please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Quarterly Results and Seasonality." Because a significant percentage of our net sales and operating income are generated in the quarter ending December 31, we have limited ability to compensate for shortfalls in December quarter sales or earnings by changes in our operations or strategies in other quarters. A significant shortfall in results for the quarter ending December 31 of any year could have a material adverse effect on our annual results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations also may fluctuate significantly based on such factors as: •the timing of new store openings; •the amount of net sales contributed by new and existing stores; •the success of our expansion and relocation program; •the timing of certain holidays and sales events; •changes in our merchandise mix; •general economic, industry and weather conditions that affect consumer spending; and •actions of competitors, including promotional activity. A failure to grow or maintain our comparable store sales may adversely affect our stock price and impact our results of operations. A number of factors have historically affected, and will continue to affect, our comparable store sales results, including: •competition; •general regional and national economic conditions; •inclement weather such as hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma that affected the Southern U.S. in the fall of 2005; •consumer trends, such as less spending due the impact of higher gasoline prices; •changes in our merchandise mix; •our ability to distribute merchandise efficiently to our stores; •timing and type of sale events, promotional activities or other advertising; •new merchandise introductions; and •our ability to execute our business strategy effectively. Our comparable store sales results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe such fluctuations may continue. Our comparable store sales decreased 2.5% in the six month period ended June 30, 2007, and 7.9%, 4.0% and 1.7% in the calendar years ended 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 17 unpredictability of our comparable store sales may cause our revenue and results of operations to vary from quarter to quarter, and an unanticipated decline in revenues or operating income may cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. A failure to grow or maintain our comparable store sales results could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decrease significantly. Our largest shareholder has significant influence over us, which may affect the rights of other shareholders. At August 27, 2007, Madison Dearborn Capital Partners II, L.P. held a 27% shareholder interest in us. This percentage represents a substantial amount of our common stock and Madison Dearborn will continue to have significant influence over election of our directors, approval of mergers, sales of assets and other matters. The interests of Madison Dearborn may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Future sales of our common stock on the public market could depress our stock price. If our largest shareholder sells substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. Such sales might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future. As of August 3, 2007, Madison Dearborn beneficially owned 11,388,526 shares of common stock, or approximately 27% of our outstanding shares. Madison Dearborn has advised us that it expects to continue to reduce its ownership interest in our company over time, subject to prevailing market conditions. We have granted Madison Dearborn certain rights with respect to the registration of shares of our common stock held by it, including the right to require that we register the sale of all or part of the shares it holds. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors, subject to any limitations prescribed by law and our revolving credit facility, to issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series without shareholder approval. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 