ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common shares involves a number of risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks described in this document. If any of the risks discussed actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and the value of your investment, could be materially adversely affected. For convenience, we have grouped these risk factors as follows: 1. Risks related to our liquidity 2. Risks related to our debt obligations 3. Risks related to our investments 4. Risks related to our Advisor 5. Risks related to our classification as a REIT and not as an investment company 6. Risks related to our common shares and our shareholders 1. RISKS RELATED TO OUR LIQUIDITY. A FURTHER MARKET DECLINE OF VARIOUS TYPES OF MORTGAGE PRODUCTS MAY FURTHER DECREASE ASSET VALUES AND FINANCING OPTIONS, AFFECTING OUR LIQUIDITY. Recent developments in the market for many types of mortgage products (including mortgage-backed securities) have resulted in reduced liquidity for these assets. Declining interest rates coupled with widening credit spreads have led to reduced values and the inability to find adequate financing for these assets. This has resulted in an overall reduction in liquidity across the credit spectrum of mortgage products and has presented us with financing challenges. As credit spreads widened and the value of our assets declined, we have been called to repay a portion of our debt facilities that collateralize these assets. During 2007, we paid $21.6 million in margin calls to repay borrowings on repurchase facilities and $27.3 million to refinance certain of our assets from a terminated facility using a repurchase facility. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we paid $11.8 million in margin calls to repay borrowings on repurchase facilities. To repay the money borrowed from the terminated facility and as a result of declining financing spreads on other facilities, we began selling assets in 2007 and incurred losses. At December 31, 2007, we sold $283.8 million of assets and 6 realized a loss of $19.1 million related to these sales. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, we sold an additional $58.1 million of assets and realized a loss of $3.1 million, which is recorded as impairment of investments in our 2007 consolidated financial statements. A further decline in market values of our assets would cause us to continue to repay borrowings on our repurchase facilities (see THE MARKET FOR EXECUTING CDO TRANSACTIONS HAS CEASED risk factor below) and we may be forced to sell additional assets to cover these repayments and related costs, which may lead to additional losses. THE MARKET FOR EXECUTING CDO TRANSACTIONS HAS CEASED. To finance our growth, we began utilizing CDO securitizations in 2006 and originated or acquired certain assets to be placed into the securitization program. Prior to a securitization, we would finance our investments on a facility and repay that facility with the proceeds from the CDO securitization. We were pursuing a CDO execution when real estate and credit market conditions began to deteriorate in mid-2007 along with the commercial real estate CDO market and, as a result, we chose not to pursue the CDO securitization, suspended investment activity and terminated the repurchase facility with Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. ("Citigroup") that we had used to finance our investment activity. In December 2007, we entered into an agreement to repay the entire amount of the facility by selling or refinancing the collateral assets. If CDO markets do not recover, we may be forced to find alternative financing strategies. 2. RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS. SHORT-TERM REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS INVOLVE RISK OF LOSS. While we are planning to repay our existing repurchase facilities, we currently finance, and may continue to finance, a portion of our investments through collateralized borrowing in the form of repurchase agreements, which involve us selling assets concurrently with our agreement to repurchase them at a later date and at a fixed price. During the repurchase agreement period, we continue to receive principal and interest payments on the assets. The use of borrowing, or "leverage," to finance our assets involves a number of risks, including the following: IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RENEW OUR BORROWINGS AT FAVORABLE RATES, WE MAY BE FORCED TO SELL ASSETS, AND OUR PROFITABILITY MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We rely on short-term repurchase agreements to finance a portion of our assets. There may be some inherent mismatch between the repurchase agreement terms and the assets that collateralize them causing unfavorable finance terms. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms and our ability to renew or replace these short-term borrowings on a continuous basis as they mature. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we would be forced to sell some of our assets under possibly adverse market conditions, which may affect our profitability. As of December 31, 2007, we had borrowings of approximately $136.4 million outstanding under our repurchase facilities collateralized by investments with an aggregate carrying amount of $175.2 million. A FURTHER DECLINE IN THE MARKET VALUE OF OUR ASSETS MAY RESULT IN ADDITIONAL MARGIN CALLS THAT MAY FORCE US TO SELL ASSETS UNDER ADVERSE MARKET CONDITIONS. Repurchase agreements involve the risk that the market value of the securities we sold under repurchase agreements may decline and that we will be required to post additional collateral, reduce the amount borrowed or suffer forced sales of the collateral. If forced sales were made at prices lower than the carrying value of the collateral, we would experience additional losses. If we are forced to liquidate our assets to repay borrowings, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the REIT asset and source of income requirements. OUR USE OF REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS TO BORROW MONEY MAY GIVE OUR LENDERS GREATER RIGHTS IN THE EVENT OF BANKRUPTCY. Our repurchase agreements require us to pledge certain of our assets to the lender to secure our obligations thereunder. Borrowings made under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets if a lender files for bankruptcy. In addition, if we were to file for bankruptcy, lenders under our repurchase agreements may be able to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and take possession of, and liquidate, the assets we pledged under these agreements without delay. THERE ARE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR CDO TRANSACTIONS. We are exposed to additional risks when we finance a portion of our investment portfolio through a CDO transaction. Risks associated with financing investments through a CDO include the following: 7 WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ISSUE CDO SECURITIES ON ATTRACTIVE TERMS, WHICH MAY REQUIRE US TO UTILIZE MORE COSTLY FINANCING FOR OUR INVESTMENTS, OR TO LIQUIDATE THE INVESTMENTS. We finance certain of our investments on a non-recourse, long-term basis through the issuance of CDOs. During the period that we are acquiring investments for a CDO, we finance our purchases through warehouse facilities. We use these facilities to finance our acquisition of investments until we have accumulated a sufficient quantity of them, at which time we may refinance these lines through a securitization, such as a CDO issuance, or other types of long-term financing. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire a sufficient amount of eligible investments to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of CDOs less attractive to us when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these investments, we may be required to utilize other forms of potentially less attractive financing, or otherwise liquidate the collateral. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FIND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS. When originating or acquiring assets to be financed through the issuance of CDOs, we seek to obtain investments suitable for such an execution. Some CDOs have periods where principal proceeds received from assets securing the obligation can be reinvested for a defined period of time, commonly referred to as a reinvestment period. Our ability to find suitable investments during the origination and acquisition phase or any reinvestment period that meet the criteria set forth in the CDO documentation and by rating agencies may determine the success of our CDO investments. Our potential inability to find suitable investments may cause our net income to decrease due to, but not limited to, the following factors: o interest deficiencies; o acceleration of the amortization of the senior CDO liabilities; and o reduction of the life of our CDOs and acceleration of the amortization of certain fees and expenses. THE USE OF CDO FINANCINGS WITH OVER-COLLATERALIZATION AND INTEREST COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR CASH FLOW. The terms governing CDOs generally provide that the principal amount of investments must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount and that interest income exceed interest expense by a certain amount. If delinquencies and/or losses or other factors cause a decline in collateral or cash flow levels, the cash flow otherwise payable on our investment may be redirected to repay the senior classes of debt until such point as the CDO is in compliance with the terms of the CDO. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. If our investments fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization, interest coverage or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDO financings will increase. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO REPURCHASE LOANS THAT WE HAVE SOLD OR TO INDEMNIFY HOLDERS OF OUR CDOS. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize through CDOs do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, we may be required to repurchase those loans or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, we may be required to indemnify persons for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchases or indemnification payments could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. HEDGING TRANSACTIONS CAN LIMIT GAINS AND INCREASE EXPOSURE TO LOSSES. Hedging involves risk and hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If credit spreads on debt facilities which the transactions are hedging widen, losses may occur. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates and prepayment rates. We intend generally to hedge as much of the interest rate risk as our Advisor determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions. REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and related borrowings. Any limitation on our use of hedging techniques may result in greater interest rate risk. WE MAY BE CALLED TO REPAY OUR DEBT FACILITIES IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH CERTAIN COVENANTS. For certain lines of credit, we must comply with financial covenants in order to prevent defaults on the debt agreements. We may be called to repay the debt facilities in the event of such defaults. We have covenant compliance requirements on our related party line of credit. At December 31, 2007, we failed to meet certain of these requirements, causing us to be in default of the loan agreement. While we have not been called upon to repay this facility, there can be no assurance that we will not be if defaults are not cured. 8 3. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INVESTMENTS. THERE ARE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INVESTMENTS SECURED BY REAL ESTATE, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. We derive most of our income by investing, directly and indirectly, in debt secured by multifamily or commercial properties. Such investments subject us to various types and degrees of risk that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our ability to generate revenue and net income. Multifamily and commercial property values and net operating income derived from such properties are subject to volatility and may be affected adversely by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: o national, regional and local economic conditions (which may be adversely affected by industry slowdowns and other factors); o local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of housing, retail, industrial, office or other commercial space and market demand for condominium units) as well as national, regional and local politics, including current or future rent stabilization and rent control laws and agreements; o stability of the controlling entity of our borrower and managing agent of the borrower's property; o construction quality, age and design; o demographic factors; o retroactive changes to building or similar codes; o increases in operating expenses (such as energy costs); o the potential need to expend additional capital in order to preserve our investment if a mortgage loan is called due to construction not being completed as required in the mortgage loan documents; o the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on a property securing our investment; a property operator could be liable for without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances; and o costs to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. These conditions and events may increase the possibility that a property operator or developer may be unable to meet its obligations to us or otherwise expose us to losses, thereby affecting our net income. From time to time, through the foreclosure process, we may also take title to properties as a result of loan defaults by borrowers. While our Advisor would act to improve the operating performance of any such properties and actively market them for sale, the assets tend to be illiquid and there is no assurance that we would realize the full carrying amounts when the properties are sold. COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS THAT ARE NON-INVESTMENT GRADE INVOLVE RISK OF LOSS. GENERAL. We have originated and acquired non-investment grade mortgage loans and mortgage assets as part of our investment strategy. Such loans and assets may include first mortgage loans, mezzanine loans, construction loans, bridge loans, subordinated interests in first mortgage loans and CMBS. While holding such interests, we will be subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud and losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under mortgage loans we hold, we will bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the mortgage loan. We have invested in subordinated CMBS that typically include "first loss" and non-investment grade subordinated interests. A first loss security is the most subordinate class in a structure and accordingly is the first to bear the loss upon a default, restructuring or liquidation of the underlying collateral, is the last to receive payment of interest and principal and is often not assigned an investment rating. Accordingly, such classes are subject to a greater risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest than more senior, rated classes. The market values of subordinated interests in CMBS and other subordinated securities tend to be more sensitive to changes in economic conditions than more senior, rated classes. As a result of these and other factors, subordinated interests generally are not actively traded and are relatively illiquid investments. In addition, recent volatility in trading markets for CMBS has caused the value of investments to decline significantly. As such, our ability to hold these investments has become impeded and have forced us to record declines in market value as impairment charges on the statement of operations. At December 31, 2007, we recorded $28.2 million of such charges and expect further fluctuations in market values to impact earnings in periods subsequent to December 31, 2007. Furthermore, this circumstance is compounded by the decreased liquidity in the market for such investments and the decreased availability of long-term financing. These factors have led to significant margin calls with respect to our repurchase facilities and have forced us to sell assets to cover these requirements, including periods subsequent to December 31, 2007. Should such margin calls continue we may be forced to sell additional assets, the losses they would realize could be significant and the impact of such losses would negatively impact our net income. 9 LIMITED RECOURSE LOANS MAY LIMIT OUR RECOVERY TO THE VALUE OF THE MORTGAGED PROPERTY. Our loans are generally non-recourse, although some may have limited recourse provisions for a short period. In addition, limited recourse against the borrower may be further limited by applicable provisions of the laws of the jurisdictions in which the mortgaged properties are located or by the selection of remedies and the impact of those laws on that selection. With respect to our non-recourse mortgage loans, in the event of a borrower default, the value of the specific mortgaged property and other assets, if any, pledged to secure the relevant mortgage loan, may be less than the amount owed under the mortgage loan. As to those mortgage loans that provide for recourse against the borrower and its assets generally, there can be no assurance that such recourse will provide a recovery in respect of a defaulted mortgage loan greater than the liquidation value of the mortgaged property securing that mortgage loan. In addition, investment in subordinated interests in mortgage loans do not provide us with foreclosure remedies upon default. Should an investment default, we may lose our entire investment in such loans. OUR INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO INCLUDES UNDER-PERFORMING AND IMPAIRED LOANS, WHICH MAY BE IN DEFAULT OR SUBJECT TO AN INCREASED RISK OF DELINQUENCY, FORECLOSURE OR LOSS. THE OCCURRENCE OF SUCH EVENTS COULD REDUCE OUR EARNINGS AND NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE CASH AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. We have under-performing and impaired mortgage loans in our investment portfolio and we could experience additional under-performing and impaired mortgage loans in the future. We classify mortgage loans as being impaired when we do not expect full repayment of all principal and interest and classify mortgage loans as under-performing when debt service payments on such loans are not current. We accrue interest on under-performing mortgage loans only when we expect to receive all principal and accrued interest. We held impaired mortgage loans in our investment portfolio in the carrying amount (including principal and all accrued and unpaid interest and fees) of $12.2 million as of December 31, 2007, representing 1.8% of our total assets as of that date. We recognized $5.5 million of impairment losses related to two of these loans in 2007. We also recognized $1.3 million of interest income in 2007 related to one of these mortgages prior to determining its impairment. This interest income is included in the impairment amount above. We held one underperforming mortgage loan in our investment portfolio with a carrying amount (including principal and all accrued and unpaid interest and fees) of $1.4 million as of December 31, 2007, representing 0.2% of our total assets as of that date. We recognized no interest income or impairment losses from underperforming loans in 2007. In the event of a default under a mortgage loan we hold, we bear a risk of loss to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral (net of our collection costs) and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations. In cases where we have mortgage loans where we do have recourse to the borrower, in the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law, which could have a negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed loan. Further, foreclosing upon a loan can be very expensive, could subject us to environmental liabilities and may distract our Advisor from our other operations. Our Advisor makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our investment portfolio loans, which may prove to be inaccurate. With respect to individual loans, we write down the value of impaired loans in our financial statements based upon our assessment of the probability that we will recover our principal and interest. Our assessment is based upon our evaluation of the nature of the borrower, the value of the underlying collateral, whether we have a senior or subordinated position and many other objective and subjective factors. As a result, our assessment of the carrying value of an impaired loan could prove to be inaccurate. COMPETITION IN ACQUIRING DESIRABLE INVESTMENTS MAY LIMIT THEIR AVAILABILITY WHICH COULD, IN TURN, NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE NET INCOME. We compete for loan investments with numerous public and private real estate investment vehicles, such as investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, other REITS, opportunity and private equity funds and pension fund advisors. Mortgages, mezzanine loans, subordinated interests in CMBS and other investments are often obtained through a competitive bidding process. In addition, competitors may seek to establish relationships with the financial institutions and other firms from which we intend to purchase such assets. Many of our competitors are larger than us, may have access to greater capital resources and other resources, and may have other advantages over us and our Advisor in conducting certain business and providing certain services. Competition may result in higher prices for mortgage assets, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our borrowing costs. There can be no assurance that we will achieve investment results that will allow any specified level of cash distribution. 10 INTEREST RATE FLUCTUATIONS WILL AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR ASSETS AND OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE NET INCOME. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate fluctuations can adversely affect our net income in many ways and present a variety of risks, including the risk of a mismatch between asset yields and borrowing rates. Our income depends primarily on the spread between income we earn and our borrowing costs to fund investments. Interest rate mismatch occurs because many of our assets generate income at a fixed rate while our borrowings have interest rates that reset relatively rapidly, such as monthly or quarterly. In addition, in periods of declining market rates, income from our variable rate investments would decline. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may influence our net income and could result in operating losses. See also Item 7A, QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK. PREPAYMENT RATES MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT THE VALUE OF OUR INVESTMENTS. The value of our investments may be affected by prepayment rates. Prepayment rates are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. To the extent we originate mortgage loans, we expect that such mortgage loans will have a measure of protection from prepayment in the form of prepayment lock-out periods or prepayment penalties. In periods of declining mortgage interest rates, prepayments on mortgages generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, the proceeds of such prepayments received during such periods are likely to be reinvested by us in assets yielding less than the yields on the investments that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of mortgage investments may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less from declining interest rates than would other fixed-income securities. Conversely, in periods of rising interest rates, prepayments on mortgages generally decrease, in which case we would not have the prepayment proceeds available to invest in assets with higher yields. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. WE MAY NOT ACCURATELY ASSESS INVESTMENT YIELDS, WHICH MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. Before making any investment, our Advisor will consider the expected yield of the investment and the factors that may influence the yield actually obtained on such investment. These considerations will affect our or our Advisor's decision whether to purchase such an investment and the price offered for such an investment. No assurances can be given that we or our Advisor will make an accurate assessment of the yield to be produced by an investment. Many factors beyond our and our Advisor's control are likely to influence the yield on the investments, including, but not limited to, competitive conditions in the local real estate market, local and general economic conditions and the quality of management of the underlying property. Our Advisor's inability to accurately assess investment yields may result in our purchasing assets that do not perform as well as expected, which may negatively affect our earnings. PARTICIPATING INTERESTS IN MORTGAGES MAY NOT BE REALIZED. In connection with the acquisition and origination of mortgages, we have obtained and may continue to obtain participating interests that may entitle us to payments based upon a property's cash flow, profits or any increase in the value of the property that would be realized upon a refinancing or sale of the property. As the operation of a particular property is subject to numerous variables and risks, there can be no assurance that a participating interest will result in additional payments to us. CONCENTRATION AND THE CREDIT QUALITY OF BORROWERS MAY RESULT IN LOSSES. We have not established any limit upon the geographic concentration of properties securing our investments or the credit quality of borrowers of uninsured investments. As a result, properties securing our investments may be overly concentrated in certain geographic areas and the underlying borrowers of our uninsured investments may have low credit quality while CMBS investments are secured by a pool of mortgage loans for which the underlying properties are located throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2007, 19.7%, 15.1% and 13.1% of our investment portfolio (excluding CMBS) were secured by properties in California, New York and Colorado, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, 11.9% of our investment portfolio (excluding CMBS) consisted of first mortgage loans made to one borrower who is an affiliate of our Advisor. 4. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ADVISOR. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR ADVISOR AND IF OUR ADVISOR TERMINATES THE ADVISORY AGREEMENT, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FIND AN ADEQUATE REPLACEMENT ADVISOR. We have no employees, although we have officers. We have entered into an Advisory Agreement with our Advisor under which it provides us with all of the services necessary for our operations. We are dependent on our Advisor for the management and administration of our business and investments. The results of our operations will be dependent upon the availability of, and our Advisor's ability to identify and capitalize on, investment opportunities. The Advisory Agreement may be terminated: 11 (i) without cause by our Advisor; or (ii)with or without cause by a majority of our independent trustees. The Advisor can terminate the agreement without penalty, but we are subject to a termination fee, except in certain instances, for termination or non-renewal, equal to four times the asset management fee and four times the incentive management fee that our Advisor would have been entitled to receive from us during the four calendar quarter period immediately proceeding the effective date of such termination. Termination would be effective upon 60 days prior written notice to the non-terminating party. This termination fee would have been $6.3 million if we had terminated the agreement on December 31, 2007. If our Advisor terminates our agreement, we may not be able to find an adequate replacement advisor. At this time, we are unable to assess the likelihood of our Advisor terminating the agreement. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST COULD ARISE AMONG US AND OUR RELATED PARTIES. Our Advisor has subcontracted to its affiliates, Centerline Capital Group Inc. ("CCG") and Centerline Servicing Inc. ("CSI"), its obligation to provide services under the Advisory Agreement, and there are risks involved with this arrangement. Under our Advisory Agreement, the Advisor, CCG and CSI are permitted to act as advisor to other entities having investment policies similar to ours, including other REITs. Generally, in conflict situations with non-affiliated entities, our Advisor must present an investment opportunity to us if the opportunity is within our investment objectives and policies, the opportunity is of a character that could be taken by us, and we have the financial resources to take advantage of the opportunity. Additionally, Centerline, the parent of the Advisor, has in the past, and may in the future, invest in first mortgage loans, including taxable first mortgage revenue bonds or other investments that are similar to those in which we invest. To the extent that these existing entities, as well as affiliated entities which may be formed by affiliates of our Advisor in the future, have funds available for investment at the same time as we do and a potentially suitable investment is offered to us or the affiliated entities, our Advisor will review the affiliated entities' and our investment portfolios and will determine whether or not the investment should be made by one of the affiliated entities or by us based upon factors such as the amount of funds available for investment, yield and portfolio diversification. If the making of a mortgage loan or other mortgage investment appears equally appropriate for us and these affiliated entities, the mortgage loan or other mortgage investment will either be made by a joint venture between two or more of such entities (which may include us), or will be allocated to one of such entities on a basis of rotation with the initial order of priority determined by the dates of formation of the entities. We also have a co-investment agreement with a fund affiliated with (and managed by an affiliate of) our Advisor whereby we invest together in commercial real estate loans. In the event that there is a default with respect to any of these investments, however, a conflict could exist with respect to claims on underlying assets, proceeds from liquidation, etc. In addition, Stephen M. Ross is the principal owner of The Related Companies L.P ("Related"), as well as the Chairman and an indirect owner of a 21.4% economic interest in Centerline as of January 31, 2008. Jeff T. Blau, one of our managing trustees, is also the President of Related. Affiliates of Related are the borrowers of commercial real estate loans we own (see Notes 2 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements) and any defaults with respect to those loans would present a conflict of interest with respect to exercising our remedies. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST COULD ARISE IN TRANSACTIONS WHERE WE LEND TO OR BORROW FROM AFFILIATES OF OUR ADVISOR. Every transaction entered into between us and an affiliate of our Advisor raises a potential conflict of interest. In addition to the initial determination to invest in mortgage investments secured by properties owned by an affiliate of our Advisor, such conflicts of interest with respect to these mortgage investments include, among others, decisions regarding: o whether to waive defaults of such affiliate; o whether to foreclose on a loan; and o whether to permit additional financing on the properties securing our investments other than financing provided by us. We have invested in, and may in the future invest in, mortgage investments secured by properties in which affiliates of our Advisor own equity interests in the borrower. Our declaration of trust requires that any transaction between our Advisor or any of its affiliates and us be approved by a majority of our trustees, including a majority of the independent trustees, not otherwise interested in the transaction, as being fair and reasonable and on terms not less favorable to us than those available from unaffiliated third parties. As of December 31, 2007, we had six mortgage loans with a total carrying value of approximately $143.3 million, and four multifamily housing first mortgage bonds with a total carrying value of approximately $4.9 million to borrowers that are affiliates of our Advisor, which represents 22.4% of our total assets. We have a revolving credit facility with Centerline, which provides up to $80.0 million in borrowings and bears interest at LIBOR plus 3.0%. This facility was extended through June 2008 and contains terms that are similar to those we would obtain from a third-party lender. In June 2008, we will have the option to extend the maturity date one year, which we expect to do. As of December 31, 2007, there was approximately $77.7 million outstanding on this facility. 12 We have covenant compliance requirements on our related party line of credit. At December 31, 2007, we failed to meet certain of these requirements, causing us to be in default of the loan agreement. While we have not been called upon to repay this facility, there can be no assurance that we will not be. OUR BOARD OF TRUSTEES OR OUR ADVISOR CAN CHANGE OUR BUSINESS POLICIES UNILATERALLY. Our board of trustees or our Advisor may amend or revise our business plan and certain other policies without shareholder approval. Therefore, our shareholders have no control over changes in our policies, including our business policies with respect to acquisitions, financing, growth, debt, capitalization and distributions, which are determined by our board of trustees or our Advisor. 5. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CLASSIFICATION AS A REIT AND NOT AS AN INVESTMENT COMPANY. There are risks associated with being a REIT, which include the following: FAILURE TO QUALIFY AS A REIT WOULD SUBJECT US TO FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL INCOME TAXES, WHICH WOULD REDUCE THE NET INCOME AND CASH AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. We offer investors the opportunity to invest through an entity intended to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing REIT qualification are limited. Given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, including the tax treatment of participation interests in mortgage loans and mezzanine loans, and the possibility of future changes in its circumstances, no assurance can be given that we will qualify for any particular year. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any calendar year and do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would be required to pay federal, state and local income taxes on our taxable income. We might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay that tax. Our payment of income tax would decrease the amount of our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Furthermore, if we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and we do not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we no longer would be required to distribute substantially all of our taxable income to our shareholders. Unless our failure to qualify as a REIT were excused or cured under federal tax laws, we would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. AS A REIT, OUR INCOME CAN ONLY COME FROM LIMITED TYPES OF SOURCES. To qualify as a REIT, at least 75% of our gross income must come from qualified real estate sources and at least 95% of our gross income must come from qualified real estate sources and certain other sources that are itemized in the REIT tax laws. In addition to these income tests, we must satisfy certain requirements concerning our assets on a quarterly basis, including the requirement that at least 75% of our assets qualify as real estate assets. Therefore, we may have to forego opportunities to invest in potentially profitable businesses or assets because they would produce income that could jeopardize our status as a REIT. FAILURE TO MAKE REQUIRED DISTRIBUTIONS WOULD SUBJECT US TO TAX, WHICH WOULD REDUCE THE CASH AVAILABLE FOR DISTRIBUTION TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders, each calendar year, at least 90% of our taxable income (including certain items of non-cash income), determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. In addition, we may be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than certain specified amounts. Our taxable income may substantially exceed our net income as determined based on generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"), because, for example, realized capital losses will be deducted in determining our GAAP net income, but may not be deductible in computing our taxable income. In addition, we may invest in assets that generate taxable income in excess of net income or in advance of the corresponding cash flow from the assets. To the extent that we generate such non-cash taxable income, or "phantom" income, in a taxable year, we may incur corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax on that income if we do not distribute such income to our shareholders in that year or we may be required to use cash reserves, incur debt or liquidate assets at rates or times that we regard as unfavorable in order to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in that year. WE ARE ALSO SUBJECT TO OTHER TAX LIABILITIES. As a REIT, we may be subject to federal, state and local taxes on certain types of income, property and transactions. Any of these taxes would reduce our operating cash flow. 13 LIQUIDATION OF COLLATERAL MAY JEOPARDIZE OUR REIT STATUS. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our mortgage investments to satisfy our obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT. CHANGES IN TAX LAWS REGARDING REITS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR NET INCOME. Congress, and to some extent the United States Department of Treasury, as well as state legislatures and regulatory authorities, could at any time adversely change the way in which a REIT and its stockholders are taxed, by imposing additional entity-level taxes, further restricting the permissible beneficial ownership and types of assets and income of a REIT, requiring additional distributions, or changing the law in any other respect. Moreover, such changes could apply retroactively. Should any such changes be implemented, they may cause our net income to decline. LOSS OF INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT EXCLUSION WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. We intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "Investment Company Act"). Towards this end, we rely on an exclusion from regulation as an investment company available to entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. Under the current interpretation of the SEC staff, in order to qualify for this exclusion, we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in these qualifying real estate interests, and 80% of our assets in qualifying real estate interests and real estate-related interests. In meeting the 55% requirement, we treat as qualifying real estate interests our investments in whole mortgage loans and revenue bonds that are secured by first mortgages on affordable multifamily housing properties. We also treat as qualifying real estate interests our investments in mortgage-backed securities issued with respect to an underlying pool as to which we hold all issued certificates. Mortgage-backed securities that do not represent all the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not be considered qualifying real estate interests for purposes of the 55% requirement. Instead, we treat our interests in these mortgage-backed securities as real estate-related interests. Therefore, our ownership of these mortgage-backed securities is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. If we fail to qualify for the exclusion for real estate companies, we would be regulated as an investment company and our business would be materially adversely affected. As a regulated investment company, we would be prevented from conducting our business as described in this document because the Investment Company Act contains various restrictions that, among other things, would reduce our ability to borrow. If the SEC or its staff adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to the treatment of investments in mortgage backed securities, we could be required to sell a substantial amount of our mortgage-backed securities under potentially adverse market conditions. In addition, in order to insure that we at all times qualify for the exclusion from the Investment Company Act, we may be precluded from acquiring mortgage-backed securities whose yield is somewhat higher than the yield on those that could be purchased in a manner consistent with the exemption. The net effect of these factors may be to lower our net income. DIVIDENDS PAYABLE BY REITS DO NOT QUALIFY FOR THE REDUCED TAX RATES. Tax legislation enacted in 2004 reduced the maximum U.S. federal tax rate on certain corporate dividends paid to individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers to 15% (through 2010). Dividends paid by REITs to these shareholders are generally not eligible for these reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs , the more favorable rates applicable to non-REIT corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the shares of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our preferred and common shares. 6. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OUTSTANDING SHARES AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS. RESTRICTIONS ON SHARE ACCUMULATION IN REITS COULD DISCOURAGE A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, not more than 50% of the number or value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of a taxable year or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year. In order to prevent five or fewer individuals from acquiring more than 50% of our outstanding shares and a resulting failure to qualify as a REIT, our declaration of trust provides that, no person may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, more than 9.8% of the outstanding shares. The shares most recently acquired by a person that are in excess of the 9.8% limit will not have any voting rights and will be deemed to have been offered for sale to us for a period subsequent to the acquisition. Any person who acquires shares in excess of the 9.8% limit is obliged to immediately give written notice to us and provide us with any information we may request in order to determine the effect of the acquisition on our status as a REIT. 14 While these restrictions are designed to prevent any five individuals from owning more than 50% of our shares, preserving our status as a REIT, they also discourage a change in control of our company. These restrictions may also deter tender offers that may be attractive to shareholders or limit the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares if an investor makes purchases of shares to acquire a block of shares. SUPERMAJORITY VOTING REQUIREMENTS FOR ACQUISITIONS, MERGERS AND OTHER FACTORS COULD DISCOURAGE A CHANGE OF CONTROL OF OUR COMPANY. Our declaration of trust requires that 80% of our shareholders and all of our independent trustees approve exchange offers, mergers, consolidations or similar transactions involving us in which our shareholders receive securities in a surviving entity having materially different investment objectives and policies, or that is anticipated to provide significantly greater compensation to management, except for transactions affected because of changes in applicable law, or to preserve tax advantages for a majority in interest of our shareholders. Our Advisory Agreement also requires us to pay a significant termination fee if the termination of the agreement occurs without cause or is not renewed after its one-year term. These restrictions may also deter tender offers that may be attractive to shareholders or limit the opportunity for shareholders to receive a premium for their shares if an investor makes purchases of shares to acquire a block of shares. ISSUANCES OF LARGE AMOUNTS OF OUR COMMON SHARES COULD CAUSE OUR SHARE PRICE TO DECLINE. Our declaration of trust permits our trustees to issue an unlimited number of shares (subject to SEC registration requirements and the consent of shareholders if required pursuant to the rules of the American Stock Exchange). The issuance of common shares could cause dilution of our existing common shares and a decrease in the market price of our common shares. OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAY HAVE PERSONAL LIABILITY FOR OUR ACTS AND OBLIGATIONS. It is possible that certain states may not recognize the limited liability of shareholders, although our declaration of trust provides that our shareholders shall not be subject to any personal liability for our acts or obligations. In certain states, our shareholders may be held personally liable for contract claims where the underlying agreement does not specifically exclude shareholder liability. Our shareholders may also be held personally liable for other claims against us, such as tort claims, claims for taxes and certain statutory liability. Upon payment of any such liability, however, the shareholder will, in the absence of willful misconduct on the shareholder's part, be entitled to reimbursement from our general assets, to the extent such assets are sufficient to satisfy the claim. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 