Item 1A. Risk Factors We face intense competition, which could result in lower revenues, higher research and development expenditures and adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in industries characterized by aggressive competition, rapid technological change, evolving technology standards and short product life cycles. Many of our competitors utilize similar technologies to ours and have substantially greater resources and expertise in financial, technical and marketing areas than we have. Our competitors may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, market and sell new and enhanced products at competitive prices, which will require significant research and development expenditures. If we do not develop new and enhanced products or if we are not able to invest adequately in our research and development activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Unless we keep pace with changing technologies, we could lose customers and fail to win new customers. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new products and services and enhancements to these new products and services in order to address the changing needs of the marketplace. We may not be able to accurately predict which technologies customers will support. If we do not introduce new products, services and enhancements in a timely manner, if we fail to choose correctly among technical alternatives or if we fail to offer innovative products and services at competitive prices, customers may forego purchases of our products and services and purchase those of our competitors. Moreover, Willtek had no binding long-term contractual relationships with its customers at the time of the Willtek acquisition, and orders are made by Willtek's customers as and when their needs arise. Consequently, such customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time and without any notice. The failure of one or more of Willtek's customers to continue purchasing products and services from us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. If our products do not perform as promised, we could experience increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. The failure of our products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. This could result in contract terminations and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The testing of electronic communications equipment and the accurate transmission of information entail a risk of product liability by customers and third parties. Claims may be asserted against us by end-users of any of our products for liability due to a defective or malfunctioning device made by us, and we may be subject to corresponding litigation should one or more of our products fail to perform or meet certain minimum requirements. Such a claim and corresponding litigation could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, termination of customer contracts and harm to our reputation. If we fail to adequately manage our resources, it could have a severe negative impact on our financial results or stock price. We could be subject to fluctuations in technology spending by existing and potential customers. Accordingly, we will have to actively manage expenses in a rapidly changing economic environment. This could require reducing costs during economic downturns and selectively growing in periods of economic expansion. If we do not properly manage our resources in response to these conditions, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 8 Our customers and we are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Our businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the U.S. government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties. Shortages or delay of supplies of component parts may adversely affect our operating results until alternate sources can be developed. Our operations are dependent on the ability of suppliers to deliver quality components, devices and subassemblies in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. If we experience any constrained supply of any such component parts, such constraints, if persistent, may adversely affect operating results until alternate sourcing can be developed. There may be an increased risk of supplier constraints in periods where we are increasing production volume to meet customer demands. Volatility in the prices of these component parts, an inability to secure enough components at reasonable prices to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities and configurations demanded or, conversely, a temporary oversupply of these parts, could adversely affect our future operating results. We could be subject to significant costs related to environmental contamination from past operations, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, or the NJDEP, had conducted an investigation in 1982 concerning disposal at a facility in New Jersey previously leased by our Boonton operations. Involved were certain materials formerly used by Boonton's manufacturing operations at that site and the possible effect of such disposal on the aquifer underlying the property. The disposal practices and the use of the materials in question were discontinued in 1978, prior to our acquisition of Boonton Electronics Corporation in 2000. We and the NJDEP have agreed on a plan to correct ground water contamination at the site, pursuant to which wells have been installed by us. The plan contemplates that the wells will be operated and that soil and water samples will be taken and analyzed until such time, which we are unable to predict, that contamination levels are satisfactory to the NJDEP. While we anticipate that the expenditures in connection with the site will not be substantial in future years, if we fail to continue to comply with the NJDEP plan, we could be subject to significant future liabilities and may incur significant future expenditures in connection with the former Boonton site. Furthermore, the determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us at any of our U.S. or foreign sites could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with any potential contamination at any of our respective properties, subsurface contamination may exist, and we may be exposed to material liability as a result of the existence of that contamination under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. 9 The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive. We believe that the continued service of our executive officers will be important to our future growth and competitiveness. However, other than our employment agreement with Mr. Johnson, Chief Executive Officer, and the severance agreements we entered into with Mr. Genova and Mr. Henderson, we currently do not have any employment agreements with any of our executive officers. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Johnson, and severance agreements with Mr. Genova and Mr. Henderson, we cannot assure you that Messrs. Johnson, Genova, or Henderson or any of our other executive officers will remain employed by us. Moreover, the design and manufacture of our products require substantial technical capabilities in many disparate disciplines, from engineering, mechanics and computer science to electronics and mathematics. We believe that the continued employment of key members of our technical and sales staffs will be important to us but, as with our executive officers, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed by us. Third parties could claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, such as one Germany-based company that made intellectual property allegations against Willtek, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of significant managerial resources and significant harm to our reputation. The industries in which our company operates are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. In late September 2004, Willtek received written notice from a large, Germany-based company alleging that certain products of Willtek utilize (without license) intellectual property for mobile phone measuring instruments that are the subject of certain European patents owned by such company (the “IP Allegations”). We are currently in the process of investigating the IP Allegations. Our purchase agreement in connection with the acquisition of Willtek, among other things, provides for our right to seek indemnification from the former Willtek shareholders for certain liabilities arising from or related to the IP Allegations. However, such provisions may not adequately protect us in all circumstances, and we could potentially incur substantial liability and expenses, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected, in the event the Germany-based company asserts a successful claim of infringement against us. Misappropriation of our intellectual property could harm our reputation, affect our competitive position and cost money. We believe that our intellectual property, including its methodologies, is critical to our success and competitive position. We rely on a combination of U.S. and foreign patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use by third parties, our reputation among existing and potential customers could be damaged and our competitive position adversely affected. Attempts may be made to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Our strategies to deter misappropriation could be undermined if: the proprietary nature or protection of our methodologies is not recognized in the United States or foreign countries; third parties misappropriate our proprietary methodologies and such misappropriation is not detected; and competitors create applications similar to ours but which do not technically infringe on our legally protected rights. If these risks materialize, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend our rights and divert critical managerial resources. In addition, our proprietary methodologies may decline in value or our rights to them may become unenforceable. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. 10 The success of our strategic plan to grow sales and develop relationships in Europe and Asia may be limited by risks related to conducting business in European and Asian markets. Part of our strategy is to increase sales and build additional relationships in European and Asian markets as a result of the Willtek acquisition through Willtek’s experience in marketing and distributing products and developing strategic relationships in European and Asian markets. Risks inherent in marketing, selling and developing relationships in European and Asian markets include those associated with: economic conditions in European and Asian markets, including the impact of recessions in European and Asian economies and fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar, the Euro and Asian currencies; taxes and fees imposed by European and Asian governments that may increase the cost of products and services; greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world; laws and regulations imposed by individual countries and by the European Union, particularly with respect to intellectual property, license requirements and environmental requirements; and political and economic instability, terrorism and war. In addition, European and Asian intellectual property laws are different than and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do U.S. intellectual property laws, and we will have to ensure that our intellectual property is adequately protected in foreign jurisdictions and in the United States. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors could use our proprietary technologies in non-protected jurisdictions and put us at a competitive disadvantage. The new requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will increase our operating expenses, and our acquisition of Willtek has increased the cost of compliance and increased the risk of achieving timely compliance. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual review and evaluation of our internal control systems, and attestation of these systems by our independent auditors. We are currently undergoing a review of our internal control systems and procedures and considering improvements that will be necessary in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404 by the end of our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. This evaluation process will require us to hire additional personnel and outside advisory service firms and will result in additional accounting and legal expenses, all of which will cause our operating expenses to increase. In addition, the evaluation and attestation processes required by Section 404 are new and untested, and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of improvements and receiving a favorable review and attestation by our independent auditors. Our acquisition of Willtek has increased the cost and complexity of our compliance under Section 404 and increased the risk of achieving timely compliance. The significant direct and indirect costs of the Willtek acquisition and integration could adversely affect our financial performance. We incurred approximately $3.0 million of costs in connection with the Willtek acquisition, including: costs associated with integrating the businesses of the combined company; the fees of Capitalink, L.C. in connection with its delivery of a fairness opinion to our board of directors; costs and expenses for services provided by our lawyers, accountants and other professionals in connection with the Willtek acquisition; and the reasonable transaction expenses incurred by the former Willtek shareholders and Willtek that are related to the Willtek acquisition, up to a maximum amount of $1.0 million. 11 The transaction costs and expenses attributable to financial advisory, legal and accounting services incurred by us and the transaction expenses incurred by the former Willtek shareholders and Willtek that were paid by us under the terms of the Willtek stock purchase agreement were capitalized as a component of the purchase price. Goodwill associated with the Willtek acquisition is required to be tested at least annually for impairment, and are required to record a charge to earnings, in an amount that is not currently estimable, if there is an impairment in the value of such goodwill at a later date. Other intangible assets acquired in connection with the Willtek acquisition are amortized over their estimated useful lives. As a result of the acquisition of Willtek, we have become a substantially larger and geographically dispersed organization, and if our management is unable to effectively manage the combined company going forward, our operating results will suffer. As a result of the Willtek acquisition, we acquired approximately 146 new employees, most of whom are located in Germany. Prior to the Willtek acquisition, most of our employees were based at our headquarters in Parsippany, New Jersey. As a result, we face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. The inability to successfully manage the substantially larger and geographically dispersed organization, or any significant delay in achieving successful management, could have a material adverse effect on us and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. The concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock with the former Willtek shareholders following the Willtek acquisition, as well as certain provisions of the shareholders' agreement we entered into with the former Willtek shareholders at the closing of the Willtek acquisition, enables the former Willtek shareholders to significantly influence the outcome of all matters, transactions and corporate actions that require approval of our shareholders. The former Willtek shareholders, together, beneficially own approximately 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 27, 2007. Under the terms of the shareholders' agreement we entered into with the former Willtek shareholders at the closing of the Willtek acquisition, designees of Investcorp occupy two of seven seats on our board of directors, including the position of Chairman of the Board. Additionally, at each annual meeting, Investcorp is entitled to designate to our nominating committee up to two candidates for nomination for election to our seven-member board of directors, for so long as Investcorp's beneficial ownership levels exceed certain percentage thresholds. In addition, until the earlier of the second anniversary of the closing date of the Willtek acquisition or the date on which Investcorp no longer has the right to designate director candidates for nomination under the terms of the shareholders' agreement, in any election of directors, the former Willtek shareholders will be required to vote their shares for the election of Investcorp's director nominees and for the election of each of the other director candidates nominated by our board, subject to certain exceptions. The post-acquisition concentration of ownership of our outstanding common stock with the former Willtek shareholders, combined with Investcorp's right to designate director candidates for nomination and the former Willtek shareholders’ voting obligations in the election of directors under the terms of the shareholders' agreement, enables the former Willtek shareholders to significantly influence the outcome of all matters, transactions and corporate actions that require approval of our shareholders, including the election and removal of directors and mergers or other business combination transactions, and could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change-in-control of the company or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the company. This, in turn, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 