Item 1A. Risk Factors Our industry is highly competitive and if we are not able to successfully compete, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. We operate in industries characterized by aggressive competition, rapid technological change, evolving technology standards and short product life cycles. Current and prospective customers for our products evaluate our capabilities against the merits of our direct competitors. We compete primarily on the basis of technology and performance. For certain products, we also compete on price. Many of our competitors utilize similar technologies to ours and have substantially greater resources and expertise in financial, technical and marketing areas than we have. Our competitors may introduce products that are competitively priced, have increased performance or functionality or incorporate technological advances that we have not yet developed or implemented. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop, market and sell new and enhanced products at competitive prices, which will require significant research and development expenditures. If we do not develop new and enhanced products or if we are not able to invest adequately in our research and development activities, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Unless we keep pace with changing technologies, we could lose existing customers and fail to win new customers. Our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce a variety of new products and services and enhancements to these new products and services in order to address the changing needs of the marketplace. We may not be able to accurately predict which technologies customers will support. If we do not introduce new products, services and enhancements in a timely manner, if we fail to choose correctly among technical alternatives or if we fail to offer innovative products and services at competitive prices, customers may forego purchases of our products and services and purchase those of our competitors. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will eventually result in products that the market will accept. We must accurately forecast volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed. If we do not succeed, we may be left with inventories of obsolete products or we may not have enough of some products available to meet customer demand, which could lead to reduced sales and higher expenses. Ongoing recessionary economic conditions have adversely affected and may further adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. General recessionary economic conditions have negatively impacted our business in the past and could further impact our business in the future if economic recovery is slow to occur. In addition to the potentially negative impact on our revenues, unstable economic conditions could also have a number of additional effects on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers or manufacturers resulting in product delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, customer insolvencies, increased product returns, increased pricing pressures, restructuring expenses and associated diversion of management’s attention, excess inventory and increased difficulty in our accurately forecasting product demand and planning future business activities. If macro-economic concerns were to worsen, credit markets could begin to tighten once again. In turn, our customers could experience heightened financial difficulties and, as a result, could modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products or services, which could cause our sales to decline, or become unable to make payment to us for amounts due and owing. If the economy or markets into which we sell our products are slow to recover, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The cyclicality of our end user markets could harm our financial results. Many of the end markets we serve, including but not limited to the commercial wireless market, have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. The factors leading to and the severity and length of a downturn are very difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that we will appropriately 9 anticipate changes in the underlying end markets we serve or that any increased levels of business activity will continue as a trend into the future. If we fail to anticipate changes in the end markets we serve, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers’ orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. Additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers could cause disruptions or delays. If our products do not perform as promised, we could experience increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. The failure of our products to perform as promised could result in increased costs, lower margins and harm to our reputation. We may not be able to anticipate all of the possible performance or reliability problems that could arise with our existing or new products, which could result in significant product liability or warranty claims. In addition, any defects found in our products could result in a loss of sales or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation, indemnification claims, litigation, increased insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could discourage customers from purchasing our products and materially harm our business. The testing of electronic communications equipment and the accurate transmission of information entail a risk of product liability claims being asserted by customers and third parties. Claims may be asserted against us by end-users of any of our products for liability due to a defective or malfunctioning device made by us, and we may be subject to corresponding litigation should one or more of our products fail to perform or meet certain minimum requirements. Such a claim and corresponding litigation could result in substantial costs, diversion of resources and management attention, termination of customer contracts and harm to our reputation. If we fail to adequately manage our resources, it could have a severe negative impact on our financial results or stock price. We could be subject to fluctuations in technology spending by existing and potential customers. Accordingly, we will have to actively manage expenses in a rapidly changing economic environment. This could require reducing costs during economic downturns and selectively growing in periods of economic expansion. If we do not properly manage our resources in response to these conditions, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We are subject to various governmental regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Our businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to health and safety, packaging, product content, labor and import/export regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be 10 required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. We are subject to laws and regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and regulations or comply with such government contracts could harm our business by leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the U.S. government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations might result in suspension of these contracts, or administrative penalties. Shortages or delays of supplies for component parts may adversely affect our operating results until alternate sources can be developed. Our operations are dependent on the ability of suppliers to deliver quality components, devices and subassemblies in time to meet critical manufacturing and distribution schedules. If we experience any constrained supply of any such component parts, such constraints, if persistent, may adversely affect operating results until alternate sourcing can be developed. There may be an increased risk of supplier constraints in periods where we are increasing production volume to meet customer demands. Volatility in the prices of these component parts, an inability to secure enough components at reasonable prices to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities and configurations demanded or, conversely, a temporary oversupply of these parts, could adversely affect our future operating results. We could be subject to significant costs related to environmental contamination from past operations, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. The Company’s operations are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws, ordinances and regulations that limit discharges into the environment, establish standards for the handling, generation, use, emission, release, discharge, treatment, storage and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous materials, substances and waste, and require cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (the “NJDEP”) conducted an investigation in 1982 concerning disposal at a facility previously leased by the Company’s Boonton operations. The focus of the investigation involved certain materials formerly used by Boonton’s manufacturing operations at that site and the possible effect of such disposal on the aquifer underlying the property. The disposal practices and the use of the materials in question were discontinued in 1978. The Company has cooperated with the NJDEP investigation and has been diligently pursuing the matter in an attempt to resolve it in accordance with applicable NJDEP operating procedures. The above referenced activities were conducted by Boonton prior to the acquisition of that entity in 2000. In 1982, the Company and the NJDEP agreed upon a plan to correct ground water contamination at the site, located in the township of Parsippany-Troy Hills, pursuant to which wells have been installed by the Company. The plan contemplates that the wells will be operated and that soil and water samples will be taken and analyzed until such time that contamination levels are satisfactory to the NJDEP. The Company is diligently pursuing efforts to satisfy the requirements of the original plan and receive a new determination from the NJDEP. Overall data from testing in March 2013 indicates the continuation of a decreasing concentration trend at the site. The overall decrease supports the absence of a continuing source impacting ground water. The Company believes that its current practice and plan of groundwater testing will continue until an official notification from NJDEP is obtained and the Company is released from further obligations. 11 Expenditures incurred by the Company during the year ended December 31, 2013 in connection with the site amounted to approximately $51,000. While management anticipates that the expenditures in connection with this site will not be substantial in future years, the Company could be subject to significant future liabilities and may incur significant future expenditures if further contaminants from Boonton’s testing are identified and the NJDEP requires additional remediation activities. Management is unable to estimate future remediation costs, if any, at this time. The Company will continue to be liable under the plan, in all future years, until such time as the NJDEP releases it from all obligations applicable thereto. At this time, the Company believes that it is in material compliance with all environmental laws, does not anticipate any material expenditure to meet current or pending environmental requirements, and generally believes that its processes and products do not present any unusual environmental concerns. Besides the matter referred to above with the NJDEP, the Company is unaware of any existing, pending or threatened contingent liability that may have a material adverse affect on its ongoing business operations. Certain of our products and international sales may be subject to ITAR, EAR, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other U.S. and foreign government laws, regulations, policies and practices, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international sales, for which we also use foreign representatives and consultants, are subject to U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including the ITAR and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other export laws and regulations, as well as foreign government laws, regulations and procurement policies and practices which may differ from the U.S. Government regulations in this regard. The ITAR requires export licenses from the U.S. Department of State for products shipped outside the U.S. that have military or strategic applications. Compliance with the directives of the U.S. Department of State may result in substantial legal and other expenses and the diversion of management time. In the event that a determination is made that we or any entity we have acquired has violated the ITAR with respect to any matters, we may be subject to substantial monetary penalties that we are unable to quantify at this time, and/or suspension or revocation of our export privileges and criminal sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to the EAR. The EAR regulates the export of certain “dual use” items and technologies and, in some instances, requires a license from the U.S. Department of Commerce. We can give no assurance that under either the ITAR or the EAR we will continue to be successful in obtaining the necessary licenses and authorizations or that certain sales will not be prevented or delayed. We are also subject to, and must comply with, the U. S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and similar world-wide anti-corruption laws, including the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010. These acts generally prohibit both us and our third party intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of acquiring or retaining business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. We are required as well to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to fully and accurately reflect our transactions. We have formulated and implemented strict diligence, training and reporting programs and practices that mandate and are intended to ensure compliance with these anti-corruption laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree, however, and, in certain circumstances, the FCPA and our programs and policies may conflict with local customs and practices. If we or our any of our local intermediaries have failed to comply with the requirements of the FCPA, governmental authorities in the United States could seek to impose severe criminal and civil penalties. The assertion of violations of the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws could disrupt our business and, if proven, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to remain competitive. We believe that the continued service of our executive officers will be important to our future growth and competitiveness. However, other than the severance agreements we entered into with Mr. Genova, Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Debold, Vice President of Global Sales and Marketing, and Mr. Censullo, Chief Financial Officer, we currently do not have any employment agreements with any of our executive officers. Although we have severance agreements with Messrs. Genova, Debold and Censullo, we cannot provide assurance that any named executive 12 officer, or any of our other executive officers, will remain employed by us. Moreover, the design and manufacture of our products require substantial technical capabilities in many disparate disciplines, from engineering, mechanics and computer science to electronics and mathematics. We believe that the continued employment of key members of our technical and sales staffs will be important to us but, as with our executive officers, we cannot assure you that they will remain employed by us. Third parties could claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights which could result in substantial costs, diversion of significant managerial resources and significant harm to our reputation. The industries in which our company operates are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. From time to time, third parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies in various jurisdictions that are important to our business. A successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license agreements, or stop the sale of certain products, which could adversely affect our net sales, gross margins and expenses and harm our future prospects. We use specialized technologies and know-how to design, develop and manufacture our products. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could hurt our competitive position, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that our intellectual property, including its methodologies, is critical to our success and competitive position. We rely on a combination of U.S. and foreign patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use by third parties, our reputation among existing and potential customers could be damaged and our competitive position adversely affected. Attempts may be made to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technology. Our strategies to deter misappropriation could be undermined if: • the proprietary nature or protection of our methodologies is not recognized in the United States or foreign countries; • third parties misappropriate our proprietary methodologies and such misappropriation is not detected; and • competitors create applications similar to ours but which do not technically infringe on our legally protected rights. If these risks materialize, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend our rights and divert critical managerial resources. In addition, our proprietary methodologies may decline in value or our rights to them may become unenforceable. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our business and operations could suffer in the event of security breaches. Attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated and are sometimes successful. These attempts, which might be related to industrial or other espionage, include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft, unauthorized use or publication of our intellectual property and/or confidential business information could harm our competitive position, reduce the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives or otherwise adversely affect our business. To the extent that any security breach results in inappropriate disclosure of 13 our customers’ or licensees’ confidential information, we may incur liability as a result. In addition, we may be required to devote additional resources to the security of our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. Our information technology, or IT, systems are an integral part of our business. We depend on our IT systems for scheduling, sales order entry, purchasing, materials management, accounting, and production functions. Our IT systems also allow us to ship products to our customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide a high level of customer service. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. A serious disruption to our IT systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of our ability to grow sales and develop relationships in Europe and Asia may be limited by risks related to conducting business in European and Asian markets. Part of our strategy is to increase sales and build our relationships in European and Asian markets. Risks inherent in marketing, selling and developing relationships in European and Asian markets include those associated with: • economic conditions in European and Asian markets, including the impact of recessions in European and Asian economies and fluctuations in the relative values of the U.S. dollar, the Euro and Asian currencies; • taxes and fees imposed by European and Asian governments that may increase the cost of products and services; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • seasonal reductions in business activities in some parts of the world; • laws and regulations imposed by individual countries and by the European Union, particularly with respect to intellectual property, license requirements and environmental requirements; and • political and economic instability, terrorism and war. In addition, European and Asian intellectual property laws are different than and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do U.S. intellectual property laws, and we will have to ensure that our intellectual property is adequately protected in foreign jurisdictions and in the United States. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors could use our proprietary technologies in non-protected jurisdictions and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Environmental and other disasters, such as flooding, large earthquakes, hurricanes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or other disasters, or a combination thereof, may negatively impact our business. Although we manufacture our products in New Jersey, we both source and ship our products globally. Environmental and other disasters may cause disruption to our supply chain or impede our ability to ship product to certain regions of the world. However, there can be no assurance that environmental and/or other such natural disasters will not have an adverse impact on our business in the future. We are exposed to risks associated with acquisitions, investments and divestitures. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and/or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: 14 • difficulties and increased costs in connection with integration of the personnel, operations, technologies and products of acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from other operational matters; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; • lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; • failure to commercialize purchased technology; and • the impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill that could result in significant charges to operating results in future periods. The integration of acquisitions may make the completion and integration of subsequent acquisitions more difficult. However, if we fail to identify and complete these transactions, we may be required to expend resources to internally develop products and technology or may be at a competitive disadvantage or may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to finance future acquisitions and investments through a combination of borrowings, proceeds from equity or debt offerings and the use of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments. With respect to divestitures, we may divest businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives, or do not meet our growth or profitability targets and may not be able to complete proposed divestitures on terms commercially favorable to us. Mergers, acquisitions and investments are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Investcorp Technology Ventures, L.P. owns a substantial amount of our Common Stock. Investcorp Technology Ventures, L.P., beneficially owns approximately 27% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 28, 2014. Such stockholder has significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. Consequently, this stockholder exercises substantial influence over all major decisions, including major corporate actions such as mergers and other business combinations or transactions which could result in or prevent a change of control of the Company. Accordingly, other stockholders’ abilities to influence us through voting their shares may be limited or the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. Our stock price is volatile and the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger companies in the wireless and advanced communications industries. The market price of our Common Stock has experienced significant volatility and may continue to be subject to rapid swings in the future. From January 1, 2012 to March 19, 2014, the trading prices of our stock have ranged from $1.01 to $3.78 per share. There are several factors which could affect the price of our Common Stock, including some of which are announcements of technological innovations for new commercial products by us or our competitors, developments concerning propriety rights, new or revised governmental regulation or general conditions in the market for our products, and the entrance of additional competitors into our markets. Although our Common Stock is listed for trading on the NYSE MKT, the trading volume in our Common Stock is less than that of other, larger companies in the wireless and advanced communications industries. Traditionally, the trading volume of our Common Stock has been limited. For example, for the 30 trading days 15 ending on February 28, 2014, the average daily trading volume was approximately 187,000 shares per day and ranged from between approximately 30,000 shares per day and approximately 495,000 shares per day. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our Common Stock at any given time. Because of our limited trading volume, holders of our Common Stock may not be able to sell quickly any significant number of such shares, and any attempted sales of a large number of our shares will likely have a material adverse impact on the price of our Common Stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline The trading market for our Common Stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If any of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse or misleading opinion regarding us, our business model, products or stock performance, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, the unpredictability of our financial results likely reduces the certainty, and therefore reliability, of the forecasts by securities or industry analysts of our future financial results, adding to the potential volatility of our stock price. The inability to maintain adequate levels of liquidity may have an adverse affect on the working capital of the Company. The Company believes that its financial resources from working capital provided by operations are adequate to meet its current needs. However, should current global economic conditions deteriorate, additional working capital financing may be required which may be difficult to obtain due to restrictive credit markets. New Jersey corporate law may delay or prevent a transaction that stockholders would view as favorable. We are subject to the New Jersey Shareholders’ Protection Act, which could delay or prevent a change of control of us. The Company is subject to compliance with the policies & procedures of the NYSE MKT with respect to continued listing on the stock exchange. In considering whether a security warrants continued trading and/or listing on the NYSE MKT Exchange, many factors are taken into account, such as the degree of investor interest in the company, its prospects for growth, the reputation of its management, the degree of commercial acceptance of its products, and whether its securities have suitable characteristics for auction market trading. Thus, any developments which substantially reduce the size of a company, the nature and scope of its operations, the value or amount of its securities available for the market, or the number of holders of its securities, may occasion a review of continued listing by the Exchange. Moreover, events such as the sale, destruction, loss or abandonment of a substantial portion of its business, the inability to continue its business, steps towards liquidation, or repurchase or redemption of its securities, may also give rise to such a review. 16 We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management devotes substantial time to compliance initiatives. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company, including costs resulting from public company reporting obligations under the Exchange Act and regulations regarding corporate governance practices. The listing requirements of the NYSE MKT require that we satisfy certain corporate governance requirements relating to director independence, distributing annual and interim reports, stockholder meetings, approvals and voting, soliciting proxies, conflicts of interest and a code of conduct. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to all of these requirements. Moreover, the reporting requirements, rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. These reporting requirements, rules and regulations, coupled with the increase in potential litigation exposure associated with being a public company, could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or board committees or to serve as executive officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 