ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements: We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our operations and profitability. Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • we compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of which may have more equipment, a broader coverage network, a wider range of services, greater capital resources or have other competitive advantages; • some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain significant growth; • many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances we may not be selected; • many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors; • the trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size; • advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments; and 9 Table of Contents • competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and pricing policies. If our employees were to unionize, our operating costs would increase and our ability to compete would be impaired. None of our employees are currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. However, from time to time there have been efforts to organize our employees at various service centers. We can make no assurance that our employees will not unionize in the future, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our operating results because: • some shippers have indicated that they intend to limit their use of unionized trucking companies because of the threat of strikes and other work stoppages; • restrictive work rules could hamper our efforts to improve and sustain operating efficiency; • restrictive work rules could impair our service reputation and limit our ability to provide next-day services; • a strike or work stoppage would hurt our profitability and could damage customer and employee relationships; and • an election and bargaining process would distract our time and attention from our overall objectives and impose significant expenses. These factors, and unionization of our workforce generally, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully execute our growth strategy, our business and future results of operations may suffer. Our growth strategy includes increasing the volume of freight moving through our existing service center network, selectively expanding our geographic footprint and broadening the scope of our service offerings. In connection with our growth strategy, we have purchased additional equipment, expanded and upgraded service centers, hired additional personnel and increased our sales and marketing efforts, and expect to continue to do so. Our growth strategy exposes us to a number of risks, including the following: • geographic expansion and acquisitions require start-up costs that could expose us to temporary losses; • growth and geographic expansion is dependent on the availability of real estate. Shortages of suitable real estate may limit our geographic expansion and might cause congestion in our service center network, which could result in increased operating expenses; • growth may strain our management, capital resources, information systems and customer service; • hiring new employees may increase training costs and may result in temporary inefficiencies until the employees become proficient in their jobs; • expanding our service offerings may require us to enter into new markets and encounter new competitive challenges; and • growth through acquisition could require us to temporarily match existing freight rates of the acquiree’s markets, which may be lower than the rates that we would typically charge for our services. We cannot assure that we will overcome the risks associated with our growth. If we fail to overcome those risks, we may not realize additional revenue or profits from our efforts, we may incur additional expenses and therefore our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our profitability. We are exposed to claims related to cargo loss and damage, property damage, personal injury, workers’ compensation, long-term disability and group health. We have insurance coverage with third-party insurance carriers, but self-insure a portion of the risk associated with these claims. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured increases, or we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment, our operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, insurance companies require us to obtain letters of credit to collateralize our self-insured retention. If these requirements increase, our borrowing capacity could be adversely affected. We may be subject to other lawsuits and claims relating to our services. We cannot be sure that third parties will not assert claims against us with respect to existing and future services. Any litigation to determine the validity of any third party’s claims could result in significant expense and liability to us and divert the efforts of our management and other personnel, whether or not the litigation is determined in our favor or covered by insurance. Our business is subject to general economic factors that are largely out of our control. Economic conditions may adversely affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need and their ability to pay for our services. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions represent a greater potential for bad debt losses, which may require us to increase our reserve for bad debt. In addition, because we self-insure a substantial portion of our group health expense, increases in healthcare costs and pharmaceutical expenses can adversely affect our financial results. Our results also may be negatively affected by increases in interest rates, which can increase our borrowing costs and can negatively affect the level of economic activity by our customers and thus our freight volumes. We have significant ongoing cash requirements that could limit our growth and affect our profitability if we are unable to obtain sufficient financing. Our business is highly capital intensive. Our purchases of property and equipment in 2007 and 2006 were $186,828,000 and $199,098,000, respectively. We expect our net capital expenditures for 2008 to be approximately $155,000,000 to $165,000,000. We depend on cash flow from operations, lines of credit and senior debt to finance our tractors, trailers and service centers. If we are unable in the future to raise sufficient capital or borrow sufficient funds to make these purchases, we will be forced to limit our growth and operate our trucks for longer periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, our business has significant operating cash requirements. If our cash requirements are high or our cash flow from operations is low during particular periods, we may need to seek additional financing, which may be costly or difficult to obtain. We entered into a five-year, $225,000,000 senior unsecured revolving credit facility, dated August 10, 2006, with Wachovia Bank, National Association serving as administrative agent for the lenders that we believe provides us with a sufficient source for borrowing as needed. We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the price and availability of diesel fuel. Diesel fuel is a significant operating expense. We do not hedge against the risk of diesel fuel price increases. An increase in diesel fuel prices or diesel fuel taxes, or any change in federal or state regulations that results in such an increase, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results unless the increase is offset by increases in freight rates or fuel surcharges charged to our customers. Historically, we have been able to offset significant increases in diesel fuel prices through fuel surcharges to our customers, but we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so in the future. 11 Table of Contents From time to time, we may experience shortages in the availability of diesel fuel at certain locations and may be forced to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis to prevent a disruption to our service schedules. An interruption in the supply of diesel fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Difficulty in attracting drivers could affect our profitability. Competition for drivers is intense within the trucking industry, and we periodically experience difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified drivers. Our operations may be affected by a shortage of qualified drivers in the future, which could cause us to temporarily under-utilize our fleet, face difficulty in meeting shipper demands and increase our compensation levels for drivers. If we encounter difficulty in attracting or retaining qualified drivers, our ability to service our customers and increase our revenue could be adversely affected. Limited supply and increased prices for new equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Investment in new equipment is a significant part of our annual capital expenditures. We may face difficulty in purchasing new equipment due to decreased supply. The price of our equipment may also be adversely affected in the future by regulations on newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines. See the risk factor below entitled: “We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, liabilities under, or violations of, existing or future environmental laws or regulations could adversely affect our business.” We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, liabilities under, or violations of, existing or future environmental laws or regulations could adversely affect our business. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment, the presence of hazardous materials at our properties or in our vehicles, fuel storage tanks, the transportation of certain materials and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under certain environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. Environmental laws have become and are expected to continue to be increasingly more stringent over time, and there can be no assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental laws or liabilities arising under such laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. The Environmental Protection Agency has issued regulations that require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines through 2010. Beginning in October 2002, new diesel engines were required to meet these new emission limits. Some of the regulations required reductions in the sulfur content of diesel fuel beginning in June 2006 and the introduction of emissions after-treatment devices on newly-manufactured engines and vehicles beginning with model year 2007. Our new tractor purchases in 2008 will include engines with the after-treatment devices; however, we plan to use three different brands of these engines to evaluate which brand best meets our needs of performance and reliability. The majority of our new tractor purchases in 2007 have engines manufactured prior to 2007 without these devices, which was permitted under the regulations. These regulations have resulted in higher prices for tractors and diesel engines and increased fuel and maintenance costs. These adverse effects, combined with the uncertainty as to the reliability of the vehicles equipped with the newly designed diesel engines and the residual values that will be realized from the disposition of these vehicles, could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business and operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are regulated by the DOT and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier operations, safety and fitness of 12 Table of Contents transportation equipment and drivers, driver hours of service and periodic financial reporting. In addition, the trucking industry is subject to regulatory and legislative changes from a variety of other governmental authorities, which address matters such as: (i) increasingly stringent environmental, occupational safety and health regulations and (ii) limits on vehicle weight and size. Regulatory requirements, and changes in regulatory requirements, may affect our business or the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for and the costs of providing transportation services. Our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors and harsh weather conditions. Our operations are subject to seasonal trends common in the trucking industry. Our operating results in the first quarter are normally lower due to reduced demand during the winter months. Harsh weather can also adversely affect our performance by reducing demand and reducing our ability to transport freight, which could result in increased operating expenses. If we are unable to retain our key employees, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be harmed. Our success will continue to depend upon the experience and leadership of our key employees and executive officers. In that regard, the loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Our principal shareholders control a large portion of our outstanding common stock. Earl E. Congdon, John R. Congdon and members of their respective families beneficially own approximately one-third of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As long as the Congdon family controls a large portion of our voting stock, they will be able to significantly influence the election of the entire Board of Directors and the outcome of all matters involving a shareholder vote. The Congdon family’s interests may differ from other shareholders. Our information technology systems are subject to certain risks that we cannot control. Our information systems, including our accounting systems, are dependent upon third-party software, global communications providers, telephone systems and other aspects of technology and Internet infrastructure that are susceptible to failure. Though we have implemented redundant systems and network security measures, our information technology remains susceptible to outages, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions that may inhibit our ability to provide services to our customers and the ability of our customers to access our systems. This may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in demand for our services. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 