ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. AS A RESULT OF A DECREASE IN OUR AVAILABLE FINANCIAL RESOURCES, WE HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY CURTAILED THE RESEARCH, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, PRECLINICAL TESTING AND CLINICAL TRIALS OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN SUFFICIENT ADDITIONAL FUNDING IN THE NEAR TERM, WE MAY BE FORCED TO CEASE OPERATIONS. As of December 31, 2005, we had working capital of $5,657,311, including $6,582,958 of cash and cash equivalents. Our cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $14,032,796. We expect to utilize cash and cash equivalents to fund our operating activities, including any continued development of our lead compound, alagebrium. However, as a result of the discontinuation of the Phase 2b SPECTRA trial in systolic hypertension and a decrease in our financial resources, we have significantly curtailed all product development activities of alagebrium and expect to have further reduced expenses in the first half of 2006. As announced on February 1, 2006, while we intend to pursue development of alagebrium in high potential cardiovascular indications such as heart failure, any continued development of alagebrium by us is contingent upon our entering into strategic collaboration agreements for this product candidate which, among other things, would be required to include funding for product development. We may not be able to enter into a strategic collaboration agreement with respect to alagebrium on reasonable terms, or at all. No enrollment or other activity is taking place with respect to any of our Phase 2 trials of alagebrium pending the resolution of our financial resource issues. We are currently exploring all strategic alternatives with respect to alagebrium and our company, which could include a sale of the company or its technology to a third-party and a merger of our company with another company. We cannot assure that such a transaction will be completed on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to complete such a transaction, we may be forced to cease operations. If we do complete such a transaction, no assurance can be given that such transaction will be on favorable terms or that it will result in any substantial benefit to our stockholders either in the near or long term. In August 2005, in order to enable us to move forward with the continued development of alagebrium, we announced that we had engaged the services of Burrill & Company (Burrill) to assist in developing and identifying strategic options designed to diversify our portfolio of product candidates and to enhance our ability to raise financing in the future. Potential transactions include the acquisition of technologies and product programs, licensing opportunities, the sale to or merger into another company, and debt and equity financing. Burrill has identified a number of potential transactions and we are currently in discussions with one company regarding the acquisition of a cardiovascular therapeutic technology. We are also in discussions with Genentech regarding the restructuring of their preferred stock position. If we are unable to complete such a transaction on reasonable terms, we will not have the ability to continue as a going concern after mid-2006. As part of the exploration of our strategic options, we are considering various transactions that could result in our being required to make payment of certain obligations in the amount of approximately $2.0 million, including severance, lease and other contractual and regulatory requirements. The amount and timing of our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the timing of resuming our research and development programs, if at all, the number and characteristics of product candidates that we pursue, the conduct of preclinical tests and clinical studies, the status and timelines of regulatory submissions, the costs associated with protecting patents and other proprietary rights, the ability to complete strategic collaborations and the availability of third-party funding, if any. Selling securities to satisfy our short-term and long-term capital requirements may have the effect of materially diluting the current holders of our outstanding stock. We may also seek additional funding through corporate collaborations and other financing vehicles. Potential financing sources may be dissuaded from investing in us in light of the fact that Genentech, Inc., as the sole holder of the outstanding shares of our Series G and Series H Preferred Stock, currently has a significant liquidation preference and voting position, on an as-converted to common stock basis. If funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or others, we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. If we decide to pursue a merger, several factors may make it difficult for us to complete such a transaction, including the current uncertain state of our regulatory pathway for alagebrium and the Genentech preferred stock position. Even if we complete a merger, there can be no assurance that the products or technologies acquired in such transaction will result in revenues to the combined company or any meaningful return on investment to our stockholders. 14 WE HAVE RECEIVED A GOING CONCERN OPINION FROM OUR INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE AND OUR ABILITY TO RAISE CAPITAL. J.H. Cohn LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, which highlights that current liquidity is insufficient to support operations until the end of 2006, thereby raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in J.H. Cohn LLP's report on our financial statements could have a detrimental effect on our stock price and our ability to raise additional capital. Our financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We have not made any adjustments to the financial statements as a result of the outcome of the uncertainty described above. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RENEGOTIATE OUR PREFERRED STOCK AGREEMENT WITH GENENTECH, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SECURE FUTURE EQUITY FINANCING OR MERGE WITH A THIRD-PARTY. In December 1997, we entered into an agreement with Genentech relating to the development of pimagedine, an A.G.E. formation inhibitor, for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. As part of this agreement, Genentech purchased shares of Alteon Series G Preferred Stock and Series H Preferred Stock, the proceeds of which were used to fund the pimagedine development program. Both the Series G Preferred Stock and Series H Preferred Stock have dividends which are payable quarterly in shares of preferred stock at a rate of 8.5% of the accumulated balance. The Series G and Series H Preferred Stock each carry a liquidation preference, which means that the value of that preferred stock would be required to be paid to the holders of the Series G and Series H Preferred Stock upon a sale or liquidation before any proceeds from such sale or liquidation are paid to any other holders of equity securities, including the common stock. As of December 31, 2005, holders of the outstanding shares of Series G and Series H Preferred Stock, including shares issued pursuant to the dividend obligation, were entitled to a liquidation preference of $55,613,905. Our total market capitalization as of that date was $10,439,408. As a result, unless we are successful in renegotiating our preferred stock terms with Genentech, holders of our common stock will not realize any value upon our sale or liquidation at a valuation of less than $55,613,905. The Series G and Series H Preferred Stock have no voting rights. Each share of Series G Preferred Stock and Series H Preferred Stock is convertible, upon 70 days' prior written notice, into the number of shares of common stock determined by dividing $10,000 by the average of the closing prices of our common stock, as reported on the American Stock Exchange, for the 20 business days immediately preceding the date of conversion. On December 31, 2005, the Series G and Series H Preferred Stock would have been convertible into 69,464,500 and 208,605,500 shares of common stock, respectively, representing, in aggregate, approximately 83% of our common stock outstanding on an as-converted basis as of that date. While the terms of the Series G and Series H Preferred Stock generally restrict Genentech's ownership position in us upon conversion to 40% of our outstanding common stock, any conversion of shares of Series G and/or Series H Preferred Stock into common stock would represent a substantial dilution to existing common shareholders. Potential financing sources for us may be dissuaded from investing in us in light of the presence of a significant holder of securities having a sizable liquidation preference and/or voting position. This could also discourage any potential acquirer from pursuing a transaction with us at a valuation that does not result in sufficient proceeds to pay the full liquidation preference due to Genentech. Although we have been in negotiations with Genentech to restructure Genentech's preferred stock position, we have not been successful to date in reaching a definitive agreement. Our ability to effect a merger transaction with a third-party in order to diversify our product portfolio and enhance our ability to raise additional capital will be severely compromised unless we can restructure the Genentech preferred stock terms. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO FORM THE SUCCESSFUL COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS THAT OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY REQUIRES, THEN OUR PROGRAMS WILL SUFFER AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DEVELOP PRODUCTS. Our strategy for developing and deriving revenues from our products depends, in large part, upon entering into arrangements with research collaborators, corporate partners and others. The potential market, preclinical and clinical study results and safety profile of our product candidates may not be attractive to potential corporate partners. A two-year toxicity study found that male rats exposed to high doses of alagebrium over their natural lifetime developed dose-related increases in liver cell alterations including hepatocarcinomas, and that the alteration rate was slightly over the expected background rate in this gender and species of rat. Also, our Phase 2a EMERALD study in erectile dysfunction, the IND for which has since been withdrawn, was placed on clinical hold 15 by the Reproductive and Urologic Division which may adversely affect our ability to enter into research and development collaborations with respect to alagebrium. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product candidate, reduce or delay our development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay our potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN THE KEY PERSONNEL ON WHOM OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS, OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, MARKETING AND COMMERCIALIZATION PLANS COULD SUFFER. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management and scientific staff to realize our strategic goals and operating objectives. Over the past few months, due to the reduction in our clinical trial activities, the number of our employees has decreased from 30 as of June 30, 2005 to 7 as of March 1, 2006. On February 1, 2006, we announced the resignation of our Chief Operating Officer, Judith S. Hedstrom. The loss of services in the near term of any of our other principal members of management and scientific staff could impede the achievement of our development priorities. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work in the future will also be critical to our success, and there is significant competition among companies in our industry for such personnel. We have established retention programs for our current key employees, and we may be required to provide additional retention and severance benefits to our employees as we curtail operations or prepare to effect a strategic transaction such as a sale or merger with another company. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition between pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced managers and scientists, and given the recent clinical and regulatory setbacks that we have experienced. In addition, we rely on consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants are employed by other entities and may have commitments to or consulting or advisory contracts with those other entities that may limit their availability to us. CLINICAL STUDIES REQUIRED FOR OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES ARE TIME-CONSUMING, AND THEIR OUTCOME IS UNCERTAIN. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical and clinical studies that the product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Success in preclinical studies of a product candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials. None of our products has been approved for commercialization in the United States or elsewhere. In December 2004, we announced that findings of a routine two-year rodent toxicity study indicated that male Sprague Dawley rats exposed to high doses of alagebrium over their natural lifetime developed dose-related increases in liver cell alterations and tumors, and that the liver tumor rate was slightly over the expected background rate in this gender and species of rat. In February 2005, based on the initial results from one of the follow-on preclinical toxicity experiments, we voluntarily and temporarily suspended enrollment of new subjects into each of the ongoing clinical studies pending receipt of additional preclinical data. We withdrew our IND for the EMERALD study in February 2006 in order to focus our resources on the development of alagebrium in cardiovascular indications. In June 2005, our Phase 2b SPECTRA trial in systolic hypertension was discontinued after an interim analysis found that the data did not indicate a treatment effect of alagebrium and we have ceased development of alagebrium for this indication. We cannot predict at this time when enrollment in any of our clinical studies, will resume, if ever. If we are unable to resume enrollment in our clinical studies in a timely manner, or at all, our business will be materially adversely affected. If we do not prove in clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective, we will not obtain marketing approvals from the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities. In particular, one or more of our product candidates may not exhibit the expected medical benefits in humans, may cause harmful side effects, may not be effective in treating the targeted indication or may have other unexpected characteristics that preclude regulatory approval for any or all indications of use or limit commercial use if approved. 16 The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and is difficult to predict. Factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials include: - slower than expected patient enrollment due to the nature of the protocol, the proximity of subjects to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, competition with clinical trials for other drug candidates or other factors; - adverse results in preclinical safety or toxicity studies; - lower than expected retention rates of subjects in a clinical trial; - inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials; - delays in approvals from a study site's review board, or other required approvals; - longer treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness or determine the appropriate product dose; - lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; - adverse medical events or side effects in treated subjects; - lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; and - regulatory changes. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical studies for a particular product, we may not achieve the same success in future studies of that product. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon changes in FDA policy for drug approval during the period of product development and FDA regulatory review of each submitted new drug application. We may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. Moreover, regulatory approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses of the drug. Failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals or failure to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude our licensees or marketing partners from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of such products and will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some or all of the clinical trials we undertake may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, which could prevent or delay the creation of marketable products. Our product development costs will increase if we have delays in testing or approvals, if we need to perform more, larger or different clinical or preclinical trials than planned or if our trials are not successful. Delays in our clinical trials may harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products. Before a clinical trial may commence in the United States, we must submit an IND, containing preclinical studies, chemistry, manufacturing, control and other information and a study protocol to the FDA. If the FDA does not object within 30 days after submission of the IND, then the trial may commence. If commenced, the FDA may delay, limit, suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time, or may delay, condition or reject approval of any of our product candidates, for many reasons. For example: - ongoing preclinical or clinical study results may indicate that the product candidate is not safe or effective; - the FDA may interpret our preclinical or clinical study results to indicate that the product candidate is not safe or effective, even if we interpret the results differently; or - the FDA may deem the processes and facilities that our collaborative partners, our third-party manufacturers or we propose to use in connection with the manufacture of the product candidate to be unacceptable. 17 IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP ANY PRODUCTS, OR ARE UNABLE TO DERIVE REVENUES FROM PRODUCT SALES, WE WILL NEVER BE PROFITABLE. Virtually all of our revenues to date have been generated from collaborative research agreements and interest income. We have not received any revenues from product sales. We may not realize product revenues on a timely basis, if at all, and there can be no assurance that we will ever be profitable. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $222,813,445. We anticipate that we will incur substantial, potentially greater, losses in the future as we continue our research, development and clinical studies. We have not yet requested or received regulatory approval for any product from the FDA or any other regulatory body. All of our product candidates, including our lead candidate, alagebrium, are still in research, preclinical or clinical development. We may not succeed in the development and marketing of any therapeutic or diagnostic product. We do not have any product other than alagebrium in clinical development, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to bring any other compound into clinical development. Adverse results of any preclinical or clinical study could cause us to materially modify our clinical development programs, resulting in delays and increased expenditures, or cease development for all or part of our ongoing studies of alagebrium. In February 2006, the EMERALD study of alagebrium in ED was discontinued in order to focus our resources on development of alagebrium for cardiovascular indications. In June 2005, our SPECTRA Phase 2b trial in systolic hypertension, was discontinued after an interim analysis found that the data did not indicate a treatment effect of alagebrium and we have ceased development of alagebrium for this indication. To achieve profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, successfully identify, develop, introduce and market proprietary products. Such products will require significant additional investment, development and preclinical and clinical testing prior to potential regulatory approval and commercialization. The development of new pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and expensive and subject to a number of significant risks. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. Potential products may be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical studies, fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, be difficult to manufacture on a large scale, be uneconomical, fail to achieve market acceptance or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. We may not be able to undertake additional clinical studies. In addition, our product development efforts may not be successfully completed, we may not have the funds to complete any ongoing clinical trials, we may not obtain regulatory approvals, and our products, if introduced, may not be successfully marketed or achieve customer acceptance. We do not expect any of our products, including alagebrium, to be commercially available for a number of years, if at all. FAILURE TO REMEDIATE THE MATERIAL WEAKNESSES IN OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS AND TO ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL CONTROLS IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS AND STOCK PRICE. During the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, our independent registered public accounting firm identified a material weakness, as of December 31, 2005, regarding our internal controls over the identification of and the accounting for non-routine transactions including certain costs related to potential strategic transactions, severance benefits and the financial statement recording and disclosures of stock options that we have granted to non employee consultants in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") 96-18. As defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2, a material weakness is a significant control deficiency or a combination of significant control deficiencies, that results in there being more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. This material weakness did not result in the restatement of any previously reported financial statements or any other related financial disclosure Management is in the process of implementing remedial controls to address these matters. In addition, the changes that would have resulted in the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, as a consequence of the material weakness, were deemed to be immaterial but were nevertheless recorded by the Company. On April 22, 2005, we filed an amendment to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 (the "10-K Amendment"), in which we reported that, as of December 31, 2004, and as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, had assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting 18 based on the framework established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Management's assessment included an evaluation of the design of our internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and based on this assessment, management determined that as of December 31, 2004, there were three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In light of these material weaknesses, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2004, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. The three material weaknesses identified were in the areas of audit committee oversight of the internal control review process, information technology controls and process controls, and control over cash disbursements. With respect to each of these matters, as set forth in the Form 10-K Amendment, management has implemented remedial measures or procedures to address these matters. However, we cannot currently assure that the remedial measures that are currently being implemented will be sufficient to result in a conclusion that our internal controls no longer contain any material weaknesses, and that our internal controls are effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that, even if we are able to achieve effective internal control over financial reporting, our internal controls will remain effective for any period of time. IF WE ARE ABLE TO FORM COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS, BUT ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN THEM, OUR PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT MAY BE DELAYED AND DISPUTES OVER RIGHTS TO TECHNOLOGY MAY RESULT. We may form collaborative relationships that, in some cases, will make us dependent upon outside partners to conduct preclinical testing and clinical studies and to provide adequate funding for our development programs. In general, collaborations involving our product candidates pose the following risks to us: - collaborators may fail to adequately perform the scientific and preclinical studies called for under our agreements with them; - collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations; - collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew research and development programs based on preclinical or clinical study results, changes in their strategic focus or available funding or external factors, such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities; - collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical program, stop a clinical study or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; - collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive; collaborators with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit enough resources to their marketing and distribution; - collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; - disputes may arise between us and the collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; and - collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development of the applicable product candidates. In addition, there have been a significant number of business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators. If a present or future 19 collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the continued pursuit and emphasis on our product development program could be delayed, diminished or terminated. OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES WILL REMAIN SUBJECT TO ONGOING REGULATORY REVIEW EVEN IF THEY RECEIVE MARKETING APPROVAL. IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH CONTINUING REGULATIONS, WE COULD LOSE THESE APPROVALS AND THE SALE OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD BE SUSPENDED. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the approval could be granted with the condition that we conduct additional costly post-approval studies or that we limit the indicated uses included in our labeling. Moreover, the product may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use, force us to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. In addition, the manufacturer of the product and its facilities will continue to be subject to FDA review and periodic inspections to ensure adherence to applicable regulations. After receiving marketing approval, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable United States and foreign regulatory authorities or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: - restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; - warning letters; - civil or criminal penalties; - fines; - injunctions; - product seizures or detentions; - import bans; - voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; - suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; - total or partial suspension of production; and - refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. IF WE CANNOT SUCCESSFULLY FORM AND MAINTAIN SUITABLE ARRANGEMENTS WITH THIRD PARTIES FOR THE MANUFACTURING OF THE PRODUCTS WE MAY DEVELOP, OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP OR DELIVER PRODUCTS MAY BE IMPAIRED. We have no experience in manufacturing products and do not have manufacturing facilities. Consequently, we will depend on contract manufacturers for the production of any products for development and commercial purposes. The manufacture of our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes is subject to current cGMP, regulations promulgated by the FDA. In the event that we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing capabilities for our products, we will not be able to commercialize our products as planned. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers will expose us to risks that could delay or prevent the initiation or completion of our clinical trials, the submission of applications for regulatory approvals, the approval of our products by the FDA or the commercialization of our products or result in higher costs or lost product revenues. In particular, contract manufacturers: 20 - could encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance and suffer shortages of qualified personnel, which could result in their inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs to meet our clinical schedules or to commercialize our product candidates; - could terminate or choose not to renew the manufacturing agreement, based on their own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us; - could fail to establish and follow FDA-mandated cGMPs, as required for FDA approval of our product candidates, or fail to document their adherence to cGMPs, either of which could lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical study and delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our product candidates; and - could breach, or fail to perform as agreed, under the manufacturing agreement. Changing any manufacturer that we engage for a particular product or product candidate may be difficult, as the number of potential manufacturers is limited, and we will have to compete with third parties for access to those manufacturing facilities. cGMP processes and procedures typically must be reviewed and approved by the FDA, and changing manufacturers may require re-validation of any new facility for cGMP compliance, which would likely be costly and time-consuming. We may not be able to engage replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms quickly or at all. In addition, contract manufacturers located in foreign countries may be subject to import limitations or bans. As a result, if any of our contract manufacturers is unable, for whatever reason, to supply the contracted amounts of our products that we successfully bring to market, a shortage would result which would have a negative impact on our revenues. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit the performance of third-party contractors, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of any products that we develop may adversely affect our profit margin, if any, on the sale of any future products and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO PROTECT THE PROPRIETARY RIGHTS THAT ARE CRITICAL TO OUR SUCCESS, THE DEVELOPMENT AND ANY POSSIBLE SALES OF OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES COULD SUFFER AND COMPETITORS COULD FORCE OUR PRODUCTS COMPLETELY OUT OF THE MARKET. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and abroad. The degree of patent protection afforded to pharmaceutical inventions is uncertain and our potential products are subject to this uncertainty. Competitors may develop competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by the claims of our patents. We are aware that other parties have been issued patents and have filed patent applications in the United States and foreign countries with respect to other agents that have an effect on A.G.E.s., or the formation of A.G.E. crosslinks. In addition, although we have several patent applications pending to protect proprietary technology and potential products, these patents may not be issued, and the claims of any patents that do issue, may not provide significant protection of our technology or products. In addition, we may not enjoy any patent protection beyond the expiration dates of our currently issued patents. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain, develop and expand our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain, but not all, corporate partners and consultants. Relevant inventions may be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement. Binding agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may become known to or be independently discovered by competitors. 21 THE EFFECT OF ACCOUNTING RULES RELATING TO OUR EQUITY COMPENSATION ARRANGEMENTS MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," (SFAS No. 123(R)), which is a revision of SFAS 123 and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 and related guidance and will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2006. This Statement requires that the costs of employee share-based payments be measured at fair value on the awards' grant date using an option-pricing model and recognized in the financial statements over the requisite service period. We have determined to use the modified prospective application as our transition method and we believe it may have a material effect on our results of operations. On December 15, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Alteon Inc. approved the acceleration of the vesting date of all previously issued, outstanding and unvested options, effective December 31, 2005. Approximately 1.47 million options were accelerated, of which approximately 1.3 million belong to executive officers and non-employee members of the board of directors. Based on the performance of our stock and in order to bolster employee retention, we repriced certain employee stock options on February 2, 1999. As a result of this repricing, options to purchase 1.06 million shares of stock were repriced and certain vesting periods related to these options were modified or extended. This repricing may have a material adverse impact on future financial performance based on the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, Interpretation No. 44, (FIN No. 44), "Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation, an Interpretation of Accounting Principles Board (APB Opinion No. 25)." This interpretation requires us to record compensation expense or benefit, which is adjusted every quarter, for increases or decreases in the fair value of the repriced options based on changes in our stock price from the value at July 1, 2000. The options expire at various dates through January 2008. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY WITH OTHER COMPANIES IN THE DEVELOPMENT AND MARKETING OF CURES AND THERAPIES FOR CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES, DIABETES, AND THE OTHER CONDITIONS FOR WHICH WE SEEK TO DEVELOP PRODUCTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE OUR OPERATIONS. We are engaged in pharmaceutical fields characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Many established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with financial, technical and human resources greater than ours are attempting to develop, or have developed, products that would be competitive with our products. Many of these companies have extensive experience in preclinical and human clinical studies. Other companies may succeed in developing products that are safer, more efficacious or less costly than any we may develop and may also be more successful than us in production and marketing. Rapid technological development by others may result in our products becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of the research, development or commercialization expenses incurred with respect to those products. Certain technologies under development by other pharmaceutical companies could result in better treatments for cardiovascular disease, and diabetes and its related complications. Several large companies have initiated or expanded research, development and licensing efforts to build pharmaceutical franchises focusing on these medical conditions, and some companies already have products approved and available for commercial sale to treat these indications. It is possible that one or more of these initiatives may reduce or eliminate the market for some of our products. In addition, other companies have initiated research in the inhibition or crosslink breaking of A.G.E.s. IF GOVERNMENTS AND THIRD-PARTY PAYERS CONTINUE THEIR EFFORTS TO CONTAIN OR DECREASE THE COSTS OF HEALTHCARE, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS SUCCESSFULLY. In certain foreign markets, pricing and/or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state initiatives to control and/or reduce pharmaceutical expenditures. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any products for which we may receive regulatory approval to develop and sell in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, to the extent that cost control initiatives have a material adverse effect on our corporate partners, our ability to commercialize our products may be adversely affected. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to 22 the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and third-party payers, including Medicare, frequently challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to subjects for any products developed by us. Government and other third-party payers are attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing in some cases to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. If government and other third-party payers for our products do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels, the market acceptance of these products would be adversely affected. IF THE USERS OF THE PRODUCTS THAT WE ARE DEVELOPING CLAIM THAT OUR PRODUCTS HAVE HARMED THEM, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO COSTLY AND DAMAGING PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. The use of any of our potential products in clinical studies and the sale of any approved products, including the testing and commercialization of alagebrium or other compounds, may expose us to liability claims resulting from the use of products or product candidates. Claims could be made directly by participants in our clinical studies, consumers, pharmaceutical companies or others. We maintain product liability insurance coverage for claims arising from the use of our products in clinical studies. However, coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain or acquire insurance at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any product approved for marketing in the future, and insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from product liability claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 