Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion outlines certain risk factors that could affect the Fund’s results for 2007 and beyond and cause them to differ materially from those that may be set forth in any forward-looking statement made by us or on its behalf. Readers should carefully consider these risks and all other information contained in the annual report on Form 10-K, including the Fund’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Fund. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Fund, or not presently deemed material by the Fund, may also impair its operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Fund’s business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of its common stock could decline and a shareholder may lose all or part of the shareholder’s investment. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Related to the Fund’s Investments Investments in small capitalization companies present certain risks that may not exist to the same degree as investments in larger, more established companies and will cause such investments to be volatile and speculative. The Fund currently invests, and will continue to invest, in private, small or new companies that may be in their early stages of development. Investments in these types of companies involve a number of significant risks including the following: • They typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than public companies, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions as well as general economic downturns; • They may have no earnings or experienced losses or may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their equity securities or any collateral or guarantees provided with respect to their debt; • They are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons and, as a result, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of those persons could have a material adverse impact on their business and prospects and, in turn, on its investment; • They may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs; • They generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and • Generally little public information exists about these companies and investors in those companies generally must rely on the ability of the equity sponsor to obtain adequate information for the purposes of evaluating potential returns and making a fully informed investment decision. There is uncertainty regarding the value of the Fund’s privately held securities. The Fund’s net asset value is based on the value the Fund assigns to its portfolio investments. The Fund determines the value of its investments in securities for which market quotations are not available as of the end of each calendar quarter, unless there is a significant event requiring a change in valuation in the interim. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the valuation of portfolio securities that do not have readily ascertainable market values, its fair value determination may differ materially from the value that would have been used had a ready market existed for the securities. The Fund determines the fair value of investments for which no market quotations are available based upon a methodology that the Fund believes reaches a reasonable estimation of fair value. However, the Fund does not apply multiple valuation metrics in reaching this determination, and the Fund does not obtain any third party valuations before reaching this determination. The Fund’s determinations of the fair value of its investments have a material impact on its net earnings through the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments as well as its assessment of interest income recognition. These accounting items, in turn, dictate the amount of management fees the Fund pays to its investment adviser. The Fund’s net asset value could be affected materially if its determinations of the fair value of its investments differ materially from values based on a ready market for these securities. As of December 31, 2007, none of the securities in which the Fund has invested are publicly traded or have readily available market quotations. If, in the future, the Fund makes investments in companies whose securities are publicly traded and valued at their quoted market price (less a discount to reflect the estimated effects of restrictions on the sale of such securities), the Fund will adjust its net asset value for changes in the value of any publicly held securities on a daily basis. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Fund depends upon Management, including its investment adviser, for its future success. The Fund depends upon the diligence and skill of Management, including its investment adviser, Moore, Clayton Capital Advisors, Inc., or the Adviser, to select, structure, close and monitor its investments. Effective June 30, 2005, the Fund entered into an investment advisory agreement with the Adviser (the “Advisory Agreement”) concurrently with the Adviser’s acquisition of the Fund’s previous adviser, ECMC. Under the Advisory Agreement, Management identifies, evaluates, structures, monitors and disposes of the Fund’s investments, and the services Management provides significantly impact the Fund’s results of operations. The Fund’s future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of Management. The Fund’s Chief Investment Officer, Gary Forbes, has announced his intention to retire in the near future. Since Mr. Forbes has substantial investment experience and expertise and has generally been responsible for monitoring the status of the Fund’s investments and maintaining relationships with its portfolio companies, his retirement could adversely affect the Fund. The Fund is currently in the process of hiring a new chief investment officer. Its success will depend on its ability to recruit and retain a chief investment officer and other highly qualified individuals. In addition, if the Fund is unable to integrate into Management its new chief investment officer effectively, the Fund may be unable to achieve its desired investment results. Although some of the professionals employed by ECMC were retained by the Adviser, the Adviser has a limited history in operating a business development company, and this lack of experience could adversely affect its future performance. The Adviser may not be able to implement its new investment objective successfully. Pursuant to advice from the Adviser, the Fund has refocused its investment objective and areas of investment from a regional focus and a record of investing in basic manufacturing and service companies to an investment strategy focused in sectors that are, and which the Fund believes will continue to be, driven by significant social and demographic trends, such as an aging population, increased leisure time, the globalization of business and widespread concern about the environment and increasingly scarce energy resources. The Fund’s prior investment objective was to achieve capital appreciation and, as of August 2006, the Fund formally adopted a total return investment strategy. In order to implement this strategy, Management must analyze, due diligence, invest in, monitor and sell companies in industries in which many of them have not previously been involved. Also, its new investment strategy will require Management to investigate and monitor investments that are much more broadly dispersed geographically. In addition, Management will be required to provide valuations for investments in a broader range of securities, including debt securities, which will require expertise beyond that previously required of Management. The Fund cannot assure investors that the overall risk of their investment in the Fund will be reduced as a result of its change in investment strategy. If Management cannot achieve its investment objective successfully, the value of the shareholders investment in the Fund’s common stock could decline substantially. There are significant potential conflicts of interest that could impact the Fund’s investment returns. The Fund’s executive officers and directors and the partners of the Adviser serve or may in the future serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or related lines of business as the Fund does or of investment funds managed by its affiliates. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of the Fund or its stockholders. For example, Anthony R. Moore, a director of the Fund, is a co-founder of MCCI, and the chairman of the Supervisory Board of MCC. MCC regularly advises companies and other entities on investments and acquisitions that may be suitable investments for the Fund. The Fund also notes that, while the Adviser does not currently advise other funds, it may do so in the future, and such funds, including potential new affiliated pooled investment vehicles or managed accounts not yet established, may have overlapping investment objectives and, accordingly, invest, whether principally or secondarily, in asset classes similar to those targeted by the Fund. As a result, Management may face conflicts in the allocation of investment opportunities between the Fund and other entities. Although the Adviser will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, it is 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements possible that the Fund may not be able to participate in certain investments directed by investment managers affiliated with the Adviser. When Management identifies an investment, it must choose which investment fund should make the investment. The Fund does not invest in any portfolio company in which the Adviser or any of its affiliates has a pre-existing investment. The Fund may, in the future, co-invest on a concurrent basis with other affiliates of the Adviser, subject to compliance with existing regulatory guidance, applicable regulations and the Adviser’s allocation procedures. In the course of its investing activities, the Fund pays the Adviser management and incentive fees, and reimburses the Adviser for certain expenses it incurs. As a result, investors in the Fund’s common stock invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. As a result of this arrangement, there may be times when the management team of the Adviser has interests that differ from those of the Fund’s stockholders, giving rise to a conflict. The Adviser receives a quarterly incentive fee based, in part, on the Fund’s pre-incentive fee income, if any, for the immediately preceding calendar quarter. This incentive fee is subject to a quarterly hurdle rate before providing an incentive fee return to the investment adviser. To the extent the Fund or the Adviser is able to exert influence over the Fund’s portfolio companies, the quarterly pre-incentive fee may provide the Adviser with an incentive to induce the Fund’s portfolio companies to accelerate or defer interest or other obligations owed to the Fund from one calendar quarter to another. The Fund may not realize gains from its equity investments. The Fund frequently invests in the equity securities of its portfolio companies. Also, when the Fund makes a loan, it generally receives warrants to acquire stock issued by the borrower. Ultimately, the Fund’s goal is to sell these equity interests and realize gains. These equity interests may not appreciate and, in fact, may depreciate in value. Several of its portfolio companies have experienced net losses in recent years or have negative net worth as of the most recent available balance sheet date. In addition, although the Fund realized a net capital gain in 2007 from the sale or disposition of portfolio companies, it incurred capital losses of $1.0 million from the sale of its investment in TurfGrass, LLC. Also, the market value of the Fund’s equity investments may fall below its estimate of the fair value of such investments before it sells them. Given these factors, there is a risk that the Fund will not realize gains upon the sale of those or other equity interests that it holds. The Fund may not be able to make additional investments in its portfolio companies from time to time, which may dilute its interests in such companies. After its initial investment in a portfolio company, the Fund may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company, or may have the opportunity to increase its investment in that company through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock or through follow-on investments in the debt or equity of that company. There is no assurance that the Fund will make, or have sufficient funds to make, any such follow-on investments. Any decision by the Fund not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on its part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of investment and may result in a missed opportunity for the Fund to increase its participation in a successful operation. A decision not to make a follow-on investment may also dilute its equity interest in, or reduce the expected yield on, its investment. The Fund has invested in a limited number of portfolio companies. The Fund is classified as a “non-diversified” investment company under the 1940 Act, which means the Fund is not limited in the proportion of its assets that may be invested in the securities of a single issuer. As a 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements matter of policy, the Fund does not initially invest more than 15% of the value of its net assets in a single portfolio company. However, follow-on investments, disproportionate increases or decreases in the fair value of certain portfolio companies or sales of investments may result in more than 15% of its net assets being invested in a single portfolio company at a particular time. As of December 31, 2007, the Fund had investments in 13 entities. A consequence of a limited number of investments is that changes in business or industry trends or in the financial condition, results of operations or the market’s assessment of any single portfolio company will affect the Fund’s net asset value and the market price of its common stock to a greater extent than would be the case if the Fund were a “diversified” company holding a greater number of investments. The lack of liquidity of the Fund’s privately held securities may adversely affect its business. The Fund’s portfolio investments consist principally of securities that are subject to restrictions on sale because they are not listed or publicly traded securities. If any of these securities were to become publicly traded, the Fund’s ability to sell them would still be restricted because it acquired them from the issuer in “private placement” transactions or because the Fund may be deemed to be an affiliate of the issuer. The Fund will not be able to sell these securities publicly without the expense and time required to register the securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable state securities laws, unless an exemption from such registration requirements is available. In addition, contractual or practical limitations may restrict its ability to liquidate its securities in portfolio companies because those securities are privately held and the Fund may own a relatively large percentage of the issuer’s outstanding securities. Sales may also be limited by market conditions, which may be unfavorable for sales of securities of particular issuers. The illiquidity of the Fund’s investments may preclude or delay any disposition of such securities, which may make it difficult for it to obtain cash equal to the value at which it records its investments if the need arises. The Fund has limited public information regarding the companies in which it invests. The Fund’s portfolio consists entirely of securities issued by privately held companies. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies, and the Fund must rely on the diligence of Management to obtain the information necessary for its decision to invest in them and in order to monitor them effectively. There can be no assurance that such diligence efforts will uncover all material information about such privately held businesses necessary to make fully informed investment decisions. The Fund’s portfolio companies may be highly leveraged. Investments in leveraged buyouts and in highly leveraged companies involve a high degree of business and financial risk and can result in substantial losses. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. The use of leverage by portfolio companies also magnifies the increase or decrease in the value of a Fund investment as compared to the overall change in the enterprise value of a portfolio company. Many of the Fund’s portfolio companies have incurred substantial debt in relation to their equity capital. Such indebtedness generally has a term that will require that the balance of the loan be refinanced when it matures. If a portfolio company cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet the principal and interest payments on its debt or is not successful in refinancing the debt upon its maturity, its investment could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure on the portfolio company’s assets or by the portfolio company’s reorganization or bankruptcy. A substantial portion of the debt incurred by portfolio companies may bear interest at rates that fluctuate in accordance with a stated interest rate index or the prime lending rate. The cash flow of a portfolio company may not be sufficient to meet increases in interest payments on its debt. Accordingly, the profitability of the Fund’s 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements portfolio companies, as well as the value of its investments in such companies, will depend significantly upon prevailing interest rates. In recent months the level of interest rates have increased, which will have an adverse effect on the ability of its portfolio companies to service their floating rate debt and on their profits. Leverage may impair the ability of the Fund’s portfolio companies to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, the ability of the Fund’s portfolio companies to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. The Fund’s business depends on external financing. The Fund’s business requires a substantial amount of cash to operate. The Fund may borrow funds to pay contingencies or expenses or to make investments, to maintain its pass-through tax status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. The Fund is permitted under the 1940 Act to borrow if, immediately after the borrowing, the Fund has an asset coverage ratio of at least 200%. That is, the Fund may borrow an amount equal to as much as 50% of the fair value of its total assets (including investments made with borrowed funds). The amount and nature of any such borrowings depend upon a number of factors over which the Fund has no control, including general economic conditions, conditions in the financial markets and the impact of the financing on the tax treatment of its stockholders. On August 18, 2006, the Fund entered into a loan agreement with Regions Bank providing it with a credit facility not to exceed $10.0 million. The agreement expired on December 31, 2007. The use of leverage, even on a short-term basis, could have the effect of magnifying increases or decreases in its net asset value. While the “spread” between the current yield on its investments and the cost of any loan would augment the stockholders’ return from the Fund, if the spread narrows (because of an increase in the cost of debt or insufficient income on its investments), distributions to the stockholders could be adversely affected. This may render the Fund unable to meet its obligations to its lenders, which might then require it to liquidate some or all of its investments. There can be no assurance that the Fund would realize full value for its investments or recoup all of its capital if the Fund needed to liquidate its portfolio investments. Many financial institutions today are unwilling to lend against a portfolio of illiquid, private securities. The make-up of the Fund’s portfolio has made it more difficult for it to borrow at the level and on the terms that the Fund desires. Its borrowings have historically consisted of a revolving line of credit, the proceeds of which the Fund has used to provide liquidity for expenses and contingencies and to make new or follow-on investments, and a line of credit promissory note or margin account used quarterly to enable the Fund to achieve adequate diversification to maintain its pass-through tax status as a RIC. The costs of borrowing money may exceed the income from the portfolio securities the Fund purchases with the borrowed money. The Fund will suffer a decline in net asset value if the investment performance of the additional securities purchased with borrowed money fails to cover their cost to the Fund (including any interest paid on the money borrowed). A decline in net asset value could affect its ability to make distributions on its common stock. The Fund’s failure to distribute a sufficient portion of its net investment income and net realized capital gains could result in a loss of pass-through tax status or subject it to a 4% excise tax. If the asset coverage for debt securities issued by the Fund declines to less than 200% (as a result of market fluctuations or otherwise), it may be required to sell a portion of its investments when it is disadvantageous to do so. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Dividends will likely vary or not grow over time and there is a risk that the shareholder may not receive dividends. On October 23, 2006, the Fund announced a quarterly managed distribution policy where the Fund hoped to issue quarterly distributions at a minimum annual rate of $0.50 per share. On February 19, 2008, the Fund revised its managed distribution policy to issue quarterly distributions at a minimum rate of 10% of the closing price per share on December 31, 2007. However, the Fund cannot assure shareholders that it will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will ensure a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Fund operates in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. The Fund competes with a large number of private equity funds and mezzanine funds, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds, investment entities, foreign investors and individuals and other sources of financing, including tradition financial services companies such as commercial banks. In recent years, the number of investment vehicles seeking small capitalization investments has increased dramatically. Many of the Fund’s competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial resources, and some may be subject to different and frequently less stringent regulation. As its portfolio size gets larger, the Fund expects that some of its investments will be larger as well. The Fund believes that it will face increased competition to participate in these larger transactions. These competitors may have a lower cost of funds and many have access to funding sources that are not available to the Fund. In addition, some of its competitors may have higher risk tolerances or difference risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. As a result of this competition, the Fund may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time. There is no assurance that the competitive pressures the Fund faces will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Fund’s investments in foreign securities, if any, may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. The Fund’s investment strategy contemplates that a portion of its investments may be made in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose the Fund to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks may include fluctuations in foreign currency values, changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although most of the Fund’s investments are denominated in U.S. dollars, any investments that are denominated in a foreign currency are subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. The Fund may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but it can offer no assurance that it will, in fact, hedge currency risk or that, if it does, such strategies will be effective. An economic downturn could affect the Fund’s operating results. An economic downturn may adversely affect companies having an enterprise value varying from $15.0 to $75.0 million, which are the Fund’s primary market for investments. During periods of adverse economic conditions, these companies may experience decreased revenues, financial losses, difficulty in obtaining access to financing and increased funding costs. During such periods, these companies may also have difficulty expanding their businesses and operations and may be unable to meet their debt service obligations or other expenses as they become due. Any of the foregoing developments could cause the value of the Fund’s investments in these companies to decline. In addition, during periods of adverse economic conditions, the Fund may have difficulty accessing financial markets, which could make it more difficult or impossible for it to obtain funding for additional investments. These results could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Fund may experience fluctuations in its quarterly results. The Fund could experience fluctuations in its quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements which it encounters competition in its markets, the ability to find and close suitable investments and general economic conditions. The volatility of its results is exacerbated by its relatively small number of investments. As a result of these factors, the shareholder should not rely on the Fund’s results for any period as being indicative of performance in future periods. The due diligence process that the Fund undertakes in connection with its investments may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment. Before making its investments, the Fund conducts due diligence that it deems reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. The objective of the due diligence process is to identify attractive investment opportunities based on the facts and circumstances surrounding an investment and to prepare a framework that may be used from the date of an acquisition to drive operational achievement and value creation. When conducting due diligence, the Fund evaluates a number of important business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues in determining whether or not to proceed with an investment. Its due diligence review with respect to a potential portfolio company typically includes, but is not limited to, a review of historical and prospective financial information including audits and budgets, on-site visits and interviews with management, employees, customers and vendors, a review of business plans and an analysis of the consistency of operations with those plans, and other research relating to the company, management, industry, markets, products and services, and competitors. Outside consultants, legal advisers, accountants and investment banks are expected to be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, the Fund is required to rely on resources available to it, including information provided by the portfolio company and, in some circumstances, third party investigations. The due diligence process may at times be subjective, including with respect to newly organized companies for which only limited information is available. Accordingly, the Fund cannot assure the shareholder that the due diligence investigation that it will carry out with respect to any investment opportunity will reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity. The Fund also cannot assure the shareholder that such an investigation will result in an investment being successful. Risks Related to the Fund’s Business and Structure The Fund’s ability to invest in private companies may be limited in certain circumstances. If the Fund is to maintain its status as a business development company, the Fund must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of its total assets are qualifying assets. A principal category of qualifying assets relevant to the Fund’s business is securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from an issuer that is an eligible portfolio company. Investments in companies organized outside of the United States or having a principal place of business outside of the United States are not eligible portfolio companies. Any failure on the Fund’s part to maintain its status as a business development company would reduce its operating flexibility. If the Fund does not remain a business development company, it might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject it to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act. This could impose tighter limitations on it in terms of the use of leverage and transactions with affiliated entities. Such developments would correspondingly decrease the Fund’s operating flexibility. The Fund may not continue to qualify as a RIC under the Code. To remain entitled to the tax benefits accorded to RICs under the Code, the Fund must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. To qualify as a RIC, the Fund must derive each 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements taxable year at least 90% of its gross income from dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale of stock or other securities or foreign currencies, or other income derived with respect to its business of investing in such stock or securities or currencies and net income from interests in certain “qualified” publicly traded partnerships. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if the Fund distributes at least 90% of its ordinary net taxable income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to its stockholders on an annual basis. As discussed above in “The Fund’s business depends on external financing,” the Fund has historically borrowed funds necessary to make qualifying investments to satisfy the Subchapter M diversification requirements. To the Fund’s knowledge, the Internal Revenue Service has not provided definitive guidance on a RIC borrowing and investing in the noted manner to comply with the diversification test. If the Service were to take a contrary view to the Fund’s and/or the Fund were unable to borrow sufficient funds in the future, the Fund may no longer qualify as a RIC. If the Fund fails to satisfy such diversification requirements and ceases to qualify for conduit tax treatment, it will be subject to income tax on its income and gains and will not be permitted to deduct distributions paid to stockholders. In addition, its distributions will be taxable as ordinary dividends to the extent paid from earnings and profits. The Fund may also cease to qualify as a RIC, or be subject to income tax and/or a 4% excise tax, if it fails to distribute a sufficient portion of its net investment income and net realized capital gains. The loss of its RIC qualification would have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in its common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 