ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSVarious factors exist that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statement. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we believe the following are some of the important risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations:We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our business will suffer if we are unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may adversely affect our operations and profitability.Numerous competitive factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following:•we compete with other transportation service providers of varying sizes, some of which may have more equipment, a broader global network, a wider range of services, greater capital resources or other competitive advantages;9•some of our competitors periodically reduce their prices to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase prices or maintain revenue;•we may be unable to continue to collect fuel surcharges or our fuel surcharge program may become ineffective in mitigating the impact of fluctuating costs for fuel and other petroleum-based products;•many customers reduce the number of carriers they use by selecting “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers and we may not be selected;•many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress prices or result in the loss of some business to competitors;•some customers may choose to operate their own private trucking fleet or may choose to increase the volume of freight they transport if they have an existing private trucking fleet;•some customers may choose to consolidate certain LTL shipments through a different mode of transportation, such as truckload, intermodal or rail; •the trend towards consolidation in the ground transportation industry may create other large carriers with greater financial resources and other competitive advantages relating to their size;•advances in technology require increased investments to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher prices to cover the cost of these investments; and•competition from non-asset-based logistics and freight brokerage companies may adversely affect our customer relationships and ability to maintain sufficient pricing.If we are unable to effectively compete with other LTL carriers, whether on the basis of price, service or otherwise, we may be unable to retain existing customers or attract new customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If our employees were to unionize, our operating costs would increase and our ability to compete would be impaired.None of our employees are currently represented under a collective bargaining agreement. However, from time to time there have been efforts to organize our employees at various service centers. Further, Congress or one or more states could approve legislation and/or the National Labor Relations Board could render decisions or implement rule changes that could significantly affect our business and our relationship with our employees, including actions that could substantially liberalize the procedures for union organization. In addition, we can offer no assurance that the Department of Labor will not adopt new regulations or interpret existing regulations in a manner that would favor the agenda of unions, or that our employees will not unionize in the future, particularly if regulatory changes occur that facilitate unionization.The unionization of our employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations because:•some shippers have indicated that they intend to limit their use of unionized trucking companies because of the threat of strikes and other work stoppages;•restrictive work rules could hamper our efforts to improve and sustain operating efficiency;•restrictive work rules could impair our service reputation and limit our ability to provide next-day services;•a strike or work stoppage would negatively impact our profitability and could damage customer and employee relationships; and•an election and bargaining process could divert management’s time and attention from our overall objectives and impose significant expenses.10If we are unable to successfully execute our growth strategy, our business and future results of operations may suffer.Our growth strategy includes increasing the volume of freight moving through our existing service center network, selectively expanding our geographic footprint and broadening the scope of our service offerings. In connection with our growth strategy, at various times, we have made selective acquisitions, purchased additional equipment, expanded and upgraded service centers and increased our sales and marketing efforts, and we expect to continue to do so. Our growth strategy exposes us to a number of risks, including the following:•geographic expansion requires start-up costs that could expose us to temporary losses;•shortages of suitable real estate may limit our growth and geographic expansion and might cause congestion in our service center network, which could result in increased operating expenses;•growth may strain our management, capital resources, information systems and customer service;•hiring new employees may increase training costs and may result in temporary inefficiencies until those employees become proficient in their jobs; and•expanding our service offerings may require us to enter into new markets and encounter new competitive challenges.We cannot assure that we will overcome the risks associated with our growth strategy. If we fail to overcome those risks, we may not realize additional revenue or profits from our efforts, we may incur additional expenses and, therefore, our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We may be unable to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions as part of our growth strategy.Growth through acquisitions has been a key component of our LTL growth strategy throughout our history. In the future, we may seek to acquire other LTL carriers as well as other complementary businesses. Exploration of potential acquisitions requires significant attention from our senior management team. In addition, we expect to compete for acquisition opportunities with other companies, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than we do. We cannot assure that we willhave sufficient cash with which to consummate an acquisition or otherwise be able to obtain financing for any acquisition. If we are unable to access sufficient funding for potential acquisitions, we may not be able to complete transactions that we otherwise find advantageous.Any subsequent acquisition will entail numerous risks, including:•we may not achieve anticipated levels of revenue, efficiency, cash flows and profitability;•we may experience difficulties managing businesses that are outside our historical core competency and markets;•we may underestimate the resources required to support acquisitions, which could disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management;•we may incur unanticipated costs to our infrastructure to support new business lines or separate legal entities;•we may be required to temporarily match existing customer pricing in the acquiree’s markets, which may be lower than the rates that we would typically charge for our services;•liabilities we assume could be greater than our original estimates or may not be disclosed to us at the time of acquisition;•we may incur additional indebtedness or we may issue additional equity to finance future acquisitions, which could be dilutive to our shareholders;•potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company; and•an inability to recognize projected cost savings and economies of scale.In addition, we may have difficulty integrating any acquired business and its operations, services and personnel into our existing operations, and such integration may require a significant amount of time and effort by our management team. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems resulting from any acquisitions we undertake, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.11Our customers’ and suppliers’ business may be impacted by a downturn in the economy and/or a disruption of financial markets, which may decrease demand for our services.Adverse economic conditions can negatively affect our customers’ business levels, the amount of transportation services they need, their ability to pay for our services and overall freight levels, all of which might impair our asset utilization. Customers encountering adverse economic conditions may be unable to obtain additional financing, or financing under acceptable terms, due to disruptions in the capital and credit markets. These customers represent a greater potential for bad debt losses, which may require us to increase our reserve for bad debt. Economic conditions resulting in bankruptcies of one or more of our large customers could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity in a particular year or quarter. Further, when adverse economic times arise customers may bid out freight or select competitors that offer lower rates in an attempt to lower their costs and we might be forced to lower our rates or lose freight.Our suppliers’ business levels also may be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions or financial constraints, which could lead to disruptions in the supply and availability of equipment, parts and services critical to our operations. A significant interruption in our normal supply chain could disrupt our operations, increase our costs and negatively impact our ability to serve our customers.We also are subject to cost increases outside of our control that could materially reduce our profitability if we are unable to increase our rates sufficiently. Such cost increases include, but are not limited to, increases in fuel prices, driver wages, interest rates, taxes, tolls, license and registration fees, insurance, revenue equipment and healthcare for our employees.Increases in driver compensation or other difficulties attracting and retaining qualified drivers could adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain or grow our fleet.From time to time we have experienced difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified drivers and such shortages may recur in the future. Because of the intense competition for drivers, we may face difficulty maintaining or increasing our number of drivers. The compensation we offer our drivers is subject to market conditions that may require increases in driver compensation, which becomes more likely as economic conditions improve. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of drivers, we could be required to adjust our compensation packages, or operate with fewer trucks and face difficulty meeting shipper demands, all of which could adversely affect our profitability and ability to maintain our size or grow.Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our profitability.We are exposed to claims related to cargo loss and damage, property damage, personal injury, workers’ compensation, group health and group dental. We have insurance coverage with third-party insurance carriers, but we assume a significant portion of the risk associated with these claims due to our SIRs and deductibles. Our operating results would be adversely affected if any of the following were to occur: (i) the number or severity of claims increases; (ii) we are required to accrue or pay additional amounts because the claims prove to be more severe than our original assessment; or (iii) claims exceed our excess coverage amounts. If claims exceed our retention or deductible levels or insurance market conditions change, insurers could raise premiums for excess coverage to cover their expenses and anticipated future losses. In addition, insurance companies require us to obtain letters of credit to collateralize our retention or deductible levels. If these requirements increase, our borrowing capacity could be adversely affected.Healthcare legislation may increase our costs and reduce our future profitability.To attract and retain employees, we maintain a competitive health insurance plan for our employees and their dependents. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was signed into law in 2010 and has several provisions not yet in effect, is expected to increase our annual employee healthcare costs going forward. We cannot predict the impact that this legislation, or any future state or federal healthcare legislation or regulation, will have on our operations. However, rising healthcare costs and universal healthcare coverage in the United States could result in significant long-term costs to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, rising healthcare costs could force us to make further changes to our benefits program, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain employees.12We have significant ongoing cash requirements that could limit our growth and affect our profitability if we are unable to obtain sufficient capital.Our business is highly capital intensive. We generally finance our capital expenditures and planned growth with existing cash, cash flow from operations, issuance of debt and through available borrowings under our existing senior unsecured credit agreement. We may require additional capital to finance long-term real estate purchase opportunities and acquisitions, which we may fund through additional debt or through equity offerings. If we are unable in the future to generate sufficient cash from our operations or raise capital by accessing the debt and equity markets, we may be forced to limit our growth and operate our equipment for longer periods of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Our business also has significant ongoing operating cash requirements. If our cash requirements are high or our cash flow from operations is low during particular periods, we may need to seek additional financing, which could be costly or difficult to obtain.Limited supply and increased prices for new equipment may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow.We may face difficulty in purchasing new equipment due to decreased supply and increased costs. Investment in new equipment is a significant part of our annual capital expenditures and we require an available supply of tractors and trailers from equipment manufacturers to operate and grow our business. We are also subject to shortages in raw materials that are required for the production of critical operating equipment and supplies, such as shortages in rubber or steel.The price of our equipment may also be adversely affected in the future by regulations on newly manufactured tractors and diesel engines. We have incurred significant increases in the cost of tractors due to regulations issued by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and various state agencies that require progressive reductions in exhaust emissions from diesel engines. Beginning in October 2002, new diesel engines were required to meet these new emission limits. Some of the regulations required reductions in the sulfur content of diesel fuel beginning in June 2006 and the introduction of emissions after-treatment devices on newly-manufactured engines and vehicles beginning with model-year 2007. The final phase of these regulations required reduced nitrogen and non-methane hydrocarbon emissions beginning with model-year 2010. Beginning in 2013, these regulations also required that all heavy-duty diesel engines built for highway applications over 14,000 pounds include certified onboard diagnostics systems to monitor emissions. These regulations have resulted in higher prices for tractors and diesel engines and increased operating and maintenance costs, and there can be no assurance that continued increases in pricing or costs will not have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in the availability and price of diesel fuel.Diesel fuel is a critical component of our operations and a significant operating expense for our business. Diesel fuel prices and fuel availability can be impacted by factors beyond our control, such as natural or man-made disasters, adverse weather conditions, political events, price and supply decisions by oil producing countries and cartels, terrorist activities, armed conflict and world supply and demand imbalances. We maintain fuel storage and pumping facilities at many of our service center locations; however, we may be susceptible to fuel shortages at certain locations that could cause us to incur additional expense to ensure adequate supply on a timely basis to prevent a disruption to our service schedules. An interruption in the supply of diesel fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.We do not hedge against the risk of diesel fuel price increases. An increase in diesel fuel prices or diesel fuel taxes, or any change in federal or state regulations that results in such an increase, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We have fuel surcharge programs in place with a majority of our customers, which help offset the negative impact of the increased cost of diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products. However, we also incur fuel costs that cannot be recovered even with respect to customers with which we maintain fuel surcharge programs, such as those costs associated with empty miles or the time when our engines are idling. Because our fuel surcharge recovery lags behind changes in fuel prices, our fuel surcharge recovery may not capture the increased costs we pay for fuel, especially when prices are rising, leading to fluctuations in our levels of reimbursement. We regularly monitor the components of our pricing, including fuel surcharges, and address individual account profitability issues with our customers when necessary; however, there can be no assurance that fuel surcharges can be maintained indefinitely or will be sufficiently effective in offsetting increases in diesel fuel prices.13We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, and costs of compliance with, liabilities under, or violations of, existing or future environmental laws or regulations could adversely affect our business.We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the environment, the presence of hazardous materials at our properties or in our vehicles, fuel storage tanks, the transportation of certain materials and the discharge or retention of storm water. Under certain environmental laws, we could also be held responsible for any costs relating to contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites, as well as costs associated with the clean-up of accidents involving our vehicles. Environmental laws have become and are expected to continue to be increasingly more stringent over time, and there can be no assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental laws or liabilities arising under such laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition.In addition to the EPA regulations on exhaust emissions with which we must comply, there is an increased regulatory focus on climate change and greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. As a result, we may become subject to additional legislation or rulemaking that could adversely impact our business. Any future limitations on the emission of greenhouse gases or other environmental legislation could increase our future capital expenditures and have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.We are subject to the risks of litigation and governmental proceedings, which could adversely affect our business.We are, and in the future may be, subject to legal and governmental proceedings and claims. The parties in such legal actions may seek amounts from us that may not be covered in whole or in part by insurance. Defending ourselves against such legal actions could result in significant costs and could require a substantial amount of time and effort by our management team. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation or governmental proceedings to which we are a party or whether we will be subject to future legal actions. As a result, the potential costs associated with legal actions against us could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to various risks arising from our international business operations and relationships, which could adversely affect our business.We arrange for transportation and logistics services to and from various international locations and are subject to both the risks of conducting international business and the requirements of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the "FCPA"). Failure to comply with the FCPA may result in legal claims against us. In addition, we face other risks associated with international operations and relationships, which may include restrictive trade policies, imposition of duties, taxes or government royalties imposed by foreign governments. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and increased costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are regulated by the DOT and by various state agencies. These regulatory authorities have broad powers, generally governing matters such as authority to engage in motor carrier operations, as well as motor carrier registration, driver hours of service, safety and fitness of transportation equipment and drivers, transportation of hazardous materials, certain mergers and acquisitions and periodic financial reporting. In addition, the trucking industry is subject to regulatory and legislative changes from a variety of other governmental authorities, which address matters such as: (i) increasingly stringent environmental, occupational safety and health regulations; (ii) limits on vehicle weight and size; (iii) ergonomics; (iv) port security; and (v) hours of service. In addition, we are subject to compliance with cargo-security and transportation regulations issued by the TSA within the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Regulatory requirements, and changes in regulatory requirements, may affect our business or the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or by influencing the demand for and increasing the costs of providing transportation services.In October 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ordered the FMCSA to review and re-issue rules governing hours of service for commercial truck drivers by July 26, 2011. This deadline was extended and on December 22, 2011, the FMCSA issued its final rule, which mandated compliance by July 1, 2013. The final rule reduces the maximum number of hours a truck driver can work each week to 70 hours from the former 82-hour limit. The rule maintains a maximum 11-hour daily driving limit, but requires drivers to take a 30-minute break prior to working beyond eight hours. The rule also includes changes to the “34-hour restart” provision. Implementation of the new rule has required certain changes in 14our operating procedures and increased our operating costs by limiting the productivity of our drivers. As a result, we have hired additional drivers to supplement our labor requirements, which have increased our costs. While we are unable to fully quantify all of the effects of implementing the new rule, we do not believe these additional costs had a material impact on our operating costs. We are, however, subject to future rulemaking by the FMCSA and other regulatory agencies, which could be more stringent, require additional changes to our operations, increase our operating costs or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations.The FMCSA’s Compliance, Safety, Accountability initiative (“CSA”) could adversely impact our ability to hire qualified drivers, meet our growth projections and maintain our customer relationships, each of which could adversely impact our results of operations.The CSA includes compliance and enforcement initiatives designed to monitor and improve commercial motor vehicle safety by measuring the safety record of both the motor carrier and the driver. These measurements are scored and used by the FMCSA to identify potential safety risks and to direct enforcement action. CSA scores for transportation companies are currently available on the FMCSA’s website.Our CSA scores are dependent upon our safety and compliance experience, which could change at any time. In addition, the safety standards prescribed in CSA could change and our ability to maintain an acceptable score could be adversely impacted. If we receive an unacceptable CSA score, our relationships with our customers could be damaged, which could result in a loss of business.The requirements of CSA could shrink the industry’s pool of drivers as those with unfavorable scores could leave the industry. As a result, the costs to attract, train and retain qualified drivers could increase. In addition, a shortage of qualified drivers could increase driver turnover, decrease asset utilization, limit growth and adversely impact our results of operations.Our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors and harsh weather conditions.Our operations are subject to seasonal trends common in the trucking industry. Our operating margins in the first quarter are normally lower due to reduced demand during the winter months. Harsh weather can also adversely affect our performance by reducing demand and reducing our ability to transport freight, which could result in decreased revenue and increased operating expenses.If we are unable to retain our key employees, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected.Our success will continue to depend upon the experience and leadership of our key employees and executive officers. In that regard, the loss of the services of any of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Our principal shareholders control a large portion of our outstanding common stock.Earl E. Congdon, David S. Congdon, John R. Congdon, Jr. and members of their respective families beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 27% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As long as the Congdon family controls a large portion of our voting stock, they may be able to significantly influence the election of the entire Board of Directors and the outcome of all matters involving a shareholder vote. The Congdon family’s interests may differ from the interests of other shareholders and the status of their ownership could change at their discretion.Our financial results may be adversely impacted by potential future changes in accounting practices.Future changes in accounting standards or practices, and related legal and regulatory interpretations of those changes, may adversely impact public companies in general, the transportation industry or our operations specifically. New accounting standards or requirements, such as a conversion from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to International Financial Reporting Standards, could change the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and/or liabilities or could be costly to implement. These types of regulations could have a negative impact on our financial position, liquidity, results of operations and/or access to capital.15Our information technology systems are subject to certain risks that we cannot control.We are reliant on our information systems for our operations as well as providing a value-added service to our customers. Our information systems, including our accounting systems, are dependent upon third-party software, global communications providers, data network systems and other aspects of technology and Internet infrastructure that are susceptible to failure or an adverse cyber incident. Although we have implemented redundant systems and network security measures, our information technology remains susceptible to interruptions caused by natural disasters, outages, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. Such an event could inhibit our ability to provide services to our customers and the ability of our customers to access our systems. In addition, there could be a loss of confidential information, corruption of data and damage to our brand image. This may result in a reduction in demand for our services or the loss of customers that could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.Misuse of social media outlets could damage our reputation and adversely affect our financial condition.Customers, competitors, employees and other individuals continue to increase the use of social media outlets, and we maintain and manage our own corporate presence through various social media outlets. We support new ways of sharing data and communicating through these social media outlets. However, information distributed via social networking could result in unfavorable publicity about us being disseminated quickly and broadly. This unfavorable publicity could damage our reputation and may result in a reduction in demand for our services or the loss of customers that could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. A decrease in the demand and value of used equipment may impact our results of operations.As we purchase new tractors as part of our normal replacement cycle each year, we rely on the used equipment market to dispose of our older equipment. Oversupply in the transportation industry as well as adverse domestic and foreign economic conditions can negatively impact the demand for used tractors and, therefore, reduce the value we can obtain on our used equipment. If we are unable to sell our older equipment at or above salvage value, the resulting losses could have a significant impact on our results of operations.If we raise additional capital in the future, your ownership in us could be diluted.Any issuance of equity we may undertake in the future to raise additional capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline, or require us to issue shares at a price that is lower than that paid by holders of our common stock in the past, which would result in those newly issued shares being dilutive. If we obtain funds through a credit facility or through the issuance of debt or preferred securities, these obligations and securities would likely have rights senior to your rights as a common shareholder, which could impair the value of our common stock.The market value of our common stock may fluctuate and could be substantially affected by various factors.The price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market constantly changes. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others:•Actual or anticipated variations in earnings, financial or operating performance or liquidity;•Changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections;•Failure to meet analysts’ projections;•General economic and capital market conditions;•Announcements of developments related to our business;•Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers;•Actions by government regulators; and•News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to us or our industry, including changes in regulations.16Our common stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices.Our articles of incorporation, our bylaws and Virginia law contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control or our management.Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and the laws of Virginia, the state in which we are incorporated, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us or a change in management that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions:•limit who may call a special meeting of shareholders;•require shareholder action by written consent to be unanimous;•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings;•may make it difficult to merge with or otherwise absorb a Virginia corporation acquired in a tender offer for the three years after the acquisition; and•may make an unsolicited attempt to gain control of us more difficult by restricting the right of specified shareholders to vote newly acquired large blocks of stock.These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other shareholders to take certain corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.