Risk Factors The following discussion outlines certain risk factors that could affect our results for 2006 and beyond and cause them to differ materially from those that may be set forth in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. You should carefully consider these risks and all other information contained in the annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be required to make additional investments in our portfolio companies from time to time. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company, or may have the opportunity to increase our investment in such company by the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decision by us not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation, and may dilute our equity interest in or reduce the expected yield on our investment There is uncertainty regarding the value of our privately held securities. Our net asset value is based on the value assigned to our portfolio investments. Investments in companies whose securities are publicly traded are valued at their quoted market price, less a discount to reflect the estimated effects of restrictions on the sale of such securities, if applicable. We adjust our net asset value for changes in the value of our publicly held securities on a daily basis. The value of the Fund’s investments in securities for which market quotations are not available is determined as of the end of each calendar quarter, unless there is a significant event requiring a change in valuation in the interim. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the valuation of portfolio securities which do not have readily ascertainable market values, our fair value determination may materially differ from the value that would have been used had a ready market existed for the securities. Our determinations of the fair value of our investments have a material impact on our net earnings through the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments as well as our assessment of interest income recognition. Our net asset value could be materially affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially different from the values that would exist if a ready market existed for these securities. At December 31, 2005, the Fund had no portfolio companies for which market quotations are readily available. At December 31, 2004, only one of our portfolio companies had securities for which market quotations were readily available. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. We may invest in the equity securities of our portfolio companies. Also, when we make a loan, we generally receive warrants to acquire stock issued by the borrower, and we may make direct equity investments. Our goal ultimately is to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains. These equity interests may not appreciate and, in fact, may depreciate in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests. The lack of liquidity of our privately held securities may adversely affect our business. Our portfolio investments consist principally of securities that are subject to restrictions on sale because they were acquired from the issuer in “private placement” transactions or because we are deemed to be an affiliate of the issuer. Generally, we will not be able to sell these securities publicly without the expense and time required to register the securities under the Securities Act of 1933 and applicable state securities law, unless an exemption from such registration requirements is available. In addition, contractual or practical limitations may restrict our ability to liquidate our securities in portfolio companies, because in many cases the securities of such companies will be privately held and we may own a relatively large percentage of the issuer’s outstanding securities. Sales may also be limited by securities market conditions, which may be unfavorable for sales of securities of particular issuers. The illiquidity of our investments may preclude or delay any disposition of such securities, which may make it difficult for us to obtain cash equal to the value at which we record our investments if the need arises. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have invested in a limited number of portfolio companies. The Fund is classified as a “non-diversified” investment company under the Investment Company Act, which means we are not limited in the proportion of our assets that may be invested in the securities of a single issuer. We do not initially invest more than 15% of the value of our net assets in a single portfolio company. However, follow-on investments, disproportionate increases or decreases in the value of certain portfolio companies or the sale of investments may result in greater than 15% of our net assets being invested in a single portfolio company. At December 31, 2005, we had investments in 17 entities, including 13 portfolio companies and 4 entities which have disposed of substantially all of their assets and are awaiting liquidation. The value of one investment exceeded 30% of the value of our net assets. This investment is a business which manufactures residential windows, primarily for new construction, and has subsequently been sold. A consequence of a limited number of investments is that changes in business or industry trends or in the financial condition, results of operations, or the market’s assessment of any single portfolio company will affect our net asset value and the market price of our common stock to a greater extent than would be the case if we were a “diversified” company holding a greater number of investments. We have limited public information regarding the companies in which we invest. Our portfolio consists primarily of securities issued by privately held companies. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies, and we must rely on the diligence of Management to obtain the information necessary for our decision to invest in them. There can be no assurance that such diligence efforts will uncover all material information about the privately held business necessary to make a fully informed investment decision. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged. While leveraged buyout investments and investments in highly leveraged companies may offer the opportunity for significant gains, such investments involve a high degree of business and financial risk and can also result in substantial losses. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. The use of leverage by portfolio companies also magnifies the increase or decrease in the value of a Fund investment as compared to the overall change in value of a portfolio company. Many of our portfolio companies have incurred substantial indebtedness in relation to their overall capital base. Such indebtedness generally has a term that will require that the balance of the loan be refinanced when it matures. If a portfolio company cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet the principal and interest payments on its indebtedness or is not successful in refinancing the debt upon its maturity, our investment could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure on the portfolio company’s assets or by the portfolio company’s reorganization or bankruptcy. A substantial portion of the indebtedness incurred by portfolio companies may bear interest at rates that will fluctuate in accordance with a stated interest rate index or the prime lending rate. The cash flow of a portfolio company may not be sufficient to meet increases in interest payments on its indebtedness. Accordingly, the profitability of our portfolio companies, as well as the value of our investments in such companies, depends significantly upon prevailing interest rates. If a portfolio company cannot refinance its credit facility on a timely basis, it may be required to sell assets to repay debt or seek protection under applicable reorganization or bankruptcy laws. In either event the value of our investment in such portfolio company may be materially affected. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Leverage may impair our portfolio companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. Our business is dependent on external financing. Our business requires a substantial amount of cash to operate. We may borrow funds to make investments, to maintain our pass-through tax status as a regulated investment company under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code, or to pay contingencies and expenses. We are permitted under the Investment Company Act to borrow if, immediately after the borrowing, we will have asset coverage of at least 200%. That is, we may borrow an amount up to 50% of the value of our assets (including investments made with borrowed funds). The amount and nature of any borrowings will depend upon a number of factors over which we have no control, including general economic conditions, conditions in the financial markets, and the impact of the financing on the tax treatment of the stockholders. The use of leverage, even on a short-term basis, could have the effect of magnifying increases or decreases in our net asset value. While the “spread” between the current yield on our investments and the cost of any loan would augment the stockholders’ return from the Fund, if the spread narrows (because of an increase in the cost of debt or insufficient income on our investments), distributions to the stockholders would be adversely affected. If the spread were reversed, we might be unable to meet our obligations to our lenders, which might then require us to liquidate some or all of our investments. There can be no assurance that we would realize full value for our investments or recoup all of our capital if our portfolio investments were required to be liquidated. Many financial institutions today are unwilling to lend against a portfolio of illiquid, private securities. The decline in the number of institutions in our credit market and the make-up of our portfolio has made it more difficult for us to borrow at the level and on the terms that we desire. Our borrowings have historically consisted of a revolving line of credit, the proceeds of which have been utilized to provide liquidity for expenses and contingencies and to make new or follow-on investments, and a line of credit promissory note or margin account utilized quarterly to enable us to achieve adequate diversification to maintain our pass-through tax status as a regulated investment company. The costs of borrowing money may exceed the income from the portfolio securities we purchased with the borrowed money. The Fund will suffer a decline in net asset value if the investment performance of the additional securities purchased with borrowed money fails to cover their cost to the Fund (including any interest paid on the money borrowed). A decline in net asset value could affect our ability to make distributions on our common stock. Our failure to distribute a sufficient portion of our net investment income and net realized capital gains could result in a loss of pass-through tax status or subject us to a 4% excise tax. See “Loss of Conduit Tax Treatment.” If the asset coverage for debt securities issued by the Fund declines to less than 200% (as a result of market fluctuations or otherwise), we may be required to sell a portion of our investments when it may be disadvantageous to do so. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 in the “Notes to the Financial Statements” for further discussion of the current status of our borrowings and liquidity. An economic downturn could affect our operating results. An economic downturn may adversely affect middle market businesses, which are our primary market for investments. Such a downturn could also adversely affect our ability to obtain capital to invest in such companies. These results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors including, among others, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, the ability to find and close suitable investments, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We may not continue to qualify for our pass-through tax treatment. The Fund may not qualify for conduit tax treatment if it is unable to comply with the diversification and gross income requirements of Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code. As discussed above in “Our business is dependent on external financing,” we have historically borrowed funds necessary to make qualifying investments to satisfy the Subchapter M diversification requirements. If we fail to satisfy such diversification requirements and cease to qualify for conduit tax treatment, we will be subject to income tax on our income and gains and stockholders will be subject to income tax on distributions. We may also cease to qualify for conduit tax treatment, or be subject to a 4% excise tax, if we fail to distribute a sufficient portion of our net investment income and net realized capital gains. The loss of our current tax treatment could have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in our common stock. Management believes that we have met the Subchapter M requirements to be taxed as a RIC. There is a risk that you may not receive dividends. Historically, we have distributed net investment income and net taxable realized gains from the sale of portfolio investments at least annually. Our current intention is to continue these distributions to our stockholders. Net realized long-term capital gains may be retained and treated as a distribution for federal tax purposes, to supplement our equity capital and support growth in our portfolio, unless our Management determines in certain cases to make a distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results or maintain a tax status that will allow any specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage effectively any future growth. Our ability to sustain growth depends on our ability to identify, evaluate, finance, and invest in suitable companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing such a result on a cost-effective basis is a function of, among other things, our marketing capabilities, Management’s managing of the investment process, and our access to financing sources on acceptable terms. Failure to manage effectively any future growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent upon Management, including our Adviser, for our future success. We are dependent for the final selection, structuring, closing, and monitoring of our investment on the diligence and skill of Management, including our new Adviser. Effective on June 30, 2005, the Fund entered into an investment advisory agreement with the new Adviser concurrent with the Adviser’s acquisition of our previous adviser. The Adviser identifies, evaluates, structures, monitors, and disposes of our investments, and the services it provides significantly impact our results of operations. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of Management, including our new Adviser. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. We compete with a large number of private equity funds and mezzanine funds, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds, investment entities, foreign investors, and individuals and other sources of financing, including tradition financial services companies such as commercial banks. Some of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial resources than us, and some may be subject to different and frequently less stringent regulation. Competitors may have lower cost of funds and many have access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, certain of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or difference risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. There is no assurance that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that satisfy our investment objectives or that we will be able to meet our investment goals. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or our failure to comply with those laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state, and federal level. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations or the failure to comply with these laws or regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain of these laws and regulations pertain specifically to business development companies. Failure to deploy new capital may reduce our return on equity. If we fail to invest our new capital effectively, our return on equity may be negatively impacted, which could reduce the price of the shares of our common stock that you own. Investment in shares of our common stock should not be considered a complete investment program. The Fund is intended for investors seeking long-term capital growth and income. The Fund is not meant to provide a vehicle for those who wish to play short-term swings in the stock market. Our investments in portfolio securities generally require four to seven years or longer in order to reach maturity, and such investments generally are illiquid. An investment in our shares should not be considered a complete investment program. Each prospective purchaser should take into account his or her investment objectives as well as his or her other investments when considering the purchase of our shares. Shares of our common stock trade at a discount from net asset value. The shares of our common stock are listed on The New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). Stockholders desiring liquidity may trade their shares of common stock on the NYSE at current market value, which historically has been below the net asset value. Shares of closed-end investment companies frequently trade at a discount from net asset value. This characteristic of shares of a closed-end fund is a risk separate and distinct from the risk that a fund’s net asset value will decrease. The risk of purchasing shares of a closed-end fund that might trade at a discount is more pronounced for investors who wish to sell their shares in a relatively short period of time because for those investors, realization of a gain or loss on their investments is likely to be more dependent upon the existence of a premium or discount than upon portfolio performance. Our shares have traded at a discount to net asset value since they began trading. For information concerning the trading history of our shares, see “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.” 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and marketability of shares of our common stock may from time to time be significantly affected by numerous factors, including many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us. These factors include the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market from time to time, which are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of RICs, BDCs, or other companies in our sector, which is not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • changes in earnings or variations in operating results; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by securities analysts; • announcements of new or follow-on investments in portfolio companies; • the sale or proposed sale of a portfolio investment; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. Fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock may adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our common stock and, in the event that we seek to raise capital through future equity financings, our ability to raise such equity capital. 