Item 1A. Risk Factors. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funding in the near term, we may be forced to cease operations. While we intend to pursue development of ALT-2074 and alagebrium in, any continued development of our compounds is contingent upon additional funding or a strategic partnership. We are urgently continuing to pursue fund-raising possibilities through the sale of its equity securities. In January 2007, we closed on approximately $3.0 million in debt financing and are currently negotiating a proposed private preferred stock and warrant financing of up to $20 million. The closing of any such additional financing will be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions, including stockholder approval. There can be no assurance that such financing will be completed. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to raise additional funds through the sale of additional equity securities or if the level of cash and cash equivalents falls below anticipated levels, we will not have the ability to continue as a going concern beyond the second quarter of 2007. As of December 31, 2006, we had working capital of $730,422, including $1,478,780 of cash and cash equivalents. Our cash used in operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $7,438,275. As a result of the merger with HaptoGuard, which closed on July 21, 2006, we were required to make payment of severance and insurance costs in the amount of approximately $2.0 million. In addition, we have incurred transaction fees and expenses of approximately $1,759,000 in connection with the merger. There can be no assurance that the products or technologies acquired in the merger will result in revenues to the combined company or in any meaningful return on investment to our stockholders. As a result of a decrease in our available financial resources, we have significantly curtailed the research, product development, preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates. The amount and timing of our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the timing of resuming our research and development programs, if at all, the number and characteristics of product candidates that we pursue, the conduct of preclinical tests and clinical studies, the status and timelines of regulatory submissions, the costs associated with protecting patents and other proprietary rights, the ability to complete strategic collaborations and the availability of third-party funding, if any. Selling equity securities to satisfy our capital requirements may have the effect of materially diluting the current holders of our outstanding stock. We may also seek additional funding through corporate collaborations and other financing vehicles. If funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners or others, we may be required to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. We have granted a first priority security interest in all of our assets, including intellectual property. Certain investors have provided us convertible debt financing pursuant to a note and warrant purchase agreement. As collateral to secure our obligations under the note and warrant purchase agreement, we have granted the investors a first priority security interest in all of our assets and all of the assets of our subsidiaries, including intellectual property. Upon an event of default under the secured notes, the investors could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the investors will have a first claim on our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, including intellectual property. If these investors should attempt to foreclose on their collateral, it is unlikely that there would be any assets remaining after repayment in full of such secured indebtedness. Any such default and resulting foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We need additional capital, but access to such capital is uncertain. Our current resources are insufficient to fund our commercialization efforts and to continue our future operations beyond the second quarter of 2007. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash on hand of $1,478,780. In 15 January 2007, we closed on approximately $3.0 million in a private financing. Prior to the financing, we were expending approximately $450,000 in cash per month. Following the financing, we currently expect to spend approximately $680,000 in cash per month. Our capital needs beyond the second quarter of 2007 will depend on many factors, including our research and development activities and the success thereof, the scope of our clinical trial program, the timing of regulatory approval for our products under development and the successful commercialization of our products. Our needs may also depend on the magnitude and scope of the activities, the progress and the level of success in our clinical trials, the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, competing technological and market developments, changes in or terminations of existing collaboration and licensing arrangements, the establishment of new collaboration and licensing arrangements and the cost of manufacturing scale-up and development of marketing activities, if undertaken by us. We currently do not have committed external sources of funding and may not be able to secure additional funding on any terms or on terms that are favorable to us. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional stock, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors may negotiate for rights superior to existing stockholders. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to: · delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our development programs; · obtain funds through arrangements with collaboration partners or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some or all of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; · license rights to technologies, product candidates or products on terms that are less favorable to us than might otherwise be available; · seek a buyer for all or a portion of our business; or · wind down our operations and liquidate our assets on terms that are unfavorable to us. Alteon’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on future financing. J.H. Cohn LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, has included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, which expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The inclusion of a going concern explanatory paragraph in J.H. Cohn LLP’s report on our financial statements could have a detrimental effect on our stock price and our ability to raise additional capital. Our financial statements have been prepared on the basis of a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. We have not made any adjustments to the financial statements as a result of the outcome of the uncertainty described above. Accordingly, the value of the Company in liquidation may be different from the amounts set forth in our financial statements. Our continued success will depend on our ability to continue to raise capital in order to fund the development and commercialization of our products. Failure to raise additional capital may result in substantial adverse circumstances, including delisting of our common stock shares from the American Stock Exchange, which could substantially decrease the liquidity and value of such shares, or ultimately result in our liquidation. Alteon and HaptoGuard have each historically incurred operating losses and we expect these losses to continue. Alteon and HaptoGuard have each historically incurred substantial operating losses due to their research and development activities and expect these losses to continue after the merger for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2006, Alteon had a consolidated accumulated deficit of $243,145,861. As of December 31, 2005, Alteon and HaptoGuard had an accumulated deficit of 222,813,445 and $2,425,258, respectively. Alteon’s fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 net losses were $17,679,737, $12,614,459 and $13,958,646, respectively. HaptoGuard’s fiscal years 2005 and 2004 net losses were $1,654,695 and $770,563, respectively. Alteon’s fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 net losses applicable to common stockholders were $20,332,416, $17,100,795 and $18,093,791, respectively. If we are able to obtain sufficient additional funding, we expect to expend significant amounts on research and development programs for alagebrium and ALT - -2074. Research and development activities are time consuming and expensive, and will involve the need to engage in additional fund-raising activities, identify appropriate strategic and collaborative partners, reach agreement on basic terms, and negotiate and sign definitive agreements. We are actively seeking new financing to provide financial support for our research and development 16 activities. However, at this time, we are not able to assess the probability of success in our fund-raising efforts or the terms, if any, under which we may secure financial support from strategic partners or other investors. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses for the foreseeable future. Clinical studies required for our product candidates are time-consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any of our products under development, we must demonstrate through preclinical and clinical studies that the product is safe and effective for use in each target indication. Success in preclinical studies of a product candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials. None of our products has been approved for commercialization in the United States or elsewhere. In December 2004, we announced that findings of a routine two-year rodent toxicity study indicated that male Sprague Dawley rats exposed to high doses of alagebrium over their natural lifetime developed dose-related increases in liver cell alterations and tumors, and that the liver tumor rate was slightly over the expected background rate in this gender and species of rat. In February 2005, based on the initial results from one of the follow-on preclinical toxicity experiments, we voluntarily and temporarily suspended enrollment of new subjects into each of the ongoing clinical studies pending receipt of additional preclinical data. We withdrew our IND for the EMERALD study in February 2006 in order to focus our resources on the development of alagebrium in cardiovascular indications. In June 2005, our Phase 2b SPECTRA trial in systolic hypertension was discontinued after an interim analysis found that the data did not indicate a treatment effect of alagebrium, and we have ceased development of alagebrium for this indication. In 2006, we curtailed clinical studies of alagebrium due to a lack of funds. We cannot predict at this time when enrollment in any of our clinical studies of alagebrium will resume, if ever. If we are unable to resume enrollment in our clinical studies of alagebrium in a timely manner, or at all, our business will be materially adversely affected. If we do not prove in clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective, we will not obtain marketing approvals from the FDA and other applicable regulatory authorities. In particular, one or more of our product candidates may not exhibit the expected medical benefits in humans, may cause harmful side effects, may not be effective in treating the targeted indication or may have other unexpected characteristics that preclude regulatory approval for any or all indications of use or limit commercial use if approved. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and is difficult to predict. Factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials include: · slower than expected patient enrollment due to the nature of the protocol, the proximity of subjects to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, competition with clinical trials for other drug candidates or other factors; · adverse results in preclinical safety or toxicity studies; · lower than expected recruitment or retention rates of subjects in a clinical trial; · inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials; · delays in approvals from a study site’s review board, or other required approvals; · longer treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness or determine the appropriate product dose; · lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; · adverse medical events or side effects in treated subjects; · lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; and · regulatory changes. Even if we obtain positive results from preclinical or clinical studies for a particular product, we may not achieve the same success in future studies of that product. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections based upon changes in FDA policy for drug approval during the period of product 17 development and FDA regulatory review of each submitted new drug application. We may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. Moreover, regulatory approval may entail limitations on the indicated uses of the drug. Failure to obtain requisite governmental approvals or failure to obtain approvals of the scope requested will delay or preclude our licensees or marketing partners from marketing our products or limit the commercial use of such products and will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, some or all of the clinical trials we undertake may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, which could prevent or delay the creation of marketable products. Our product development costs will increase if we have delays in testing or approvals, if we need to perform more, larger or different clinical or preclinical trials than planned or if our trials are not successful. Delays in our clinical trials may harm our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products. The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacture, distribution, labeling and promotion of pharmaceutical products in the United States pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and related regulations. We must receive pre-market approval by the FDA prior to any commercial sale of any drug candidates. Before receiving such approval, we must provide preclinical data and proof in human clinical trials of the safety and efficacy of our drug candidates, which trials can take several years. In addition, we must show that we can produce any drug candidates consistently at quality levels sufficient for administration in humans. Pre-market approval is a lengthy and expensive process. We may not be able to obtain FDA approval for any commercial sale of any drug candidate. By statute and regulation, the FDA has 180 days to review an application for approval to market a drug candidate; however, the FDA frequently exceeds the 180-day time period, at times taking up to 18 months. In addition, based on its review, the FDA or other regulatory bodies may determine that additional clinical trials or preclinical data are required. Except for any potential licensing or marketing arrangements with other pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies, we will not generate any revenues in connection with any of our drug candidates unless and until we obtain FDA approval to sell such products in commercial quantities for human application. Even if a clinical trial is commenced, the FDA may delay, limit, suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time, or may delay, condition or reject approval of any of our product candidates, for many reasons. For example: · ongoing preclinical or clinical study results may indicate that the product candidate is not safe or effective; · the FDA may interpret our preclinical or clinical study results to indicate that the product candidate is not safe or effective, even if we interpret the results differently; or · the FDA may deem the processes and facilities that our collaborative partners, our third-party manufacturers or we propose to use in connection with the manufacture of the product candidate to be unacceptable. Our success will also depend on the products and systems formerly under development by HaptoGuard, including ALT-2074, and we cannot be sure that the efforts to commercialize ALT-2074 will succeed. ALT-2074, HaptoGuard’s lead compound prior to the merger, was in development for the treatment of heart complications in patients with diabetes. It has demonstrated efficacy in mouse models. ALT-2074 is still in early clinical trials and any success to date should not be seen as indicative of the probability of any future success. The failure to complete clinical development and commercialize ALT-2074 for any reason or due to a combination of reasons will have a material adverse impact on our business. We are dependent on the successful outcome of clinical trials and will not be able to successfully develop and commercialize products if clinical trials are not successful. HaptoGuard received approval from Israel’s Ministry of Health to conduct Phase 2 trials in diabetic patients recovering from a recent myocardial infarction or acute coronary syndrome. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the biological effects on cardiac tissue in patients treated with ALT-2074. HaptoGuard received Institutional Review Board approval for three sites in Israel, and the study was opened for enrollment in May 2006. The conflict in the Middle East that occurred in July 2006 adversely impacted our ability to recruit patients for the study. We also recognized design challenges in the trial and have made several changes in the design to improve enrollment and our ability to interpret results. Recruitment has remained slow and we have neither the ability to predict the completion of the study nor the likelihood of gaining positive results. 18 If we are unable to form the successful collaborative relationships that our business strategy requires, our programs will suffer and we may not be able to develop products. Our strategy for developing and deriving revenues from our products depends, in large part, upon entering into arrangements with research collaborators, corporate partners and others. The potential market, preclinical and clinical study results and safety profile of our product candidates may not be attractive to potential corporate partners. A two-year toxicity study found that male rats exposed to high doses of alagebrium over their natural lifetime developed dose-related increases in liver cell alterations, including hepatocarcinomas, and that the alteration rate was slightly over the expected background rate in this gender and species of rat. Also, our Phase 2a EMERALD study in erectile dysfunction, the IND for which has since been withdrawn, was placed on clinical hold by the FDA’s Reproductive and Urologic Division, which may adversely affect our ability to enter into research and development collaborations with respect to alagebriu m. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators, and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular product candidate, reduce or delay our development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay our potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our product candidates to market and generate product revenue. If we are able to form collaborative relationships, but are unable to maintain them, our product development may be delayed and disputes over rights to technology may result. We may form collaborative relationships that, in some cases, will make us dependent upon outside partners to conduct preclinical testing and clinical studies and to provide adequate funding for our development programs. In general, collaborations involving our product candidates pose the following risks to us: · collaborators may fail to adequately perform the scientific and preclinical studies called for under our agreements with them; · collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations; · collaborators may not pursue further development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew research and development programs based on preclinical or clinical study results, changes in their strategic focus or available funding or external factors, such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities; · collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical program, stop a clinical study or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing; · collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive; collaborators with marketing and distribution rights to one or more products may not commit enough resources to their marketing and distribution; · collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; · disputes may arise between us and the collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; and · collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development of the applicable product candidates. 19 In addition, there have been a significant number of business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators. If a present or future collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the continued pursuit and emphasis on our product development program could be delayed, diminished or terminated. If we are unable to attract and retain the key personnel on whom our success depends, our product development, marketing and commercialization plans could suffer. We depend heavily on the principal members of our management and scientific staff to realize our strategic goals and operating objectives. Over the past year, due to the reduction in our clinical trial activities, the number of our employees has decreased from 16 as of December 31, 2005 to 7 as of December 31, 2006. Following the merger with HaptoGuard, we depend on Dr. Noah Berkowitz as the combined company’s Chief Executive Officer and Dr. Malcolm MacNab as the combined company’s Vice President of Clinical Development. The loss of services in the near term of any of our principal members of management and scientific staff could impede the achievement of our development priorities. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified scientific personnel to perform research and development work in the future will also be critical to our success, and there is significant competition among companies in our industry for such personnel. We may be required to provide additional retention and severance benefits to our employees in the future if we prepare to effect a strategic transaction, such as a sale or merger with another company. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition between pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced managers and scientists, and given the recent clinical and regulatory setbacks that we have experienced. In addition, we rely on consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants are employed by other entities and may have commitments to or consulting or advisory contracts with those other entities that may limit their availability to us. If we do not successfully develop any products, or are unable to derive revenues from product sales, we will never be profitable. Virtually all of our revenues to date have been generated from collaborative research agreements and investment income. We have not received any revenues from product sales. We may not realize product revenues on a timely basis, if at all, and there can be no assurance that we will ever be profitable. At December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $243,145,861. We anticipate that we will incur substantial, potentially greater, losses in the future as we continue our research, development and clinical studies. We have not yet requested or received regulatory approval for any product from the FDA or any other regulatory body. All of our product candidates are still in research, preclinical or clinical development. We may not succeed in the development and marketing of any therapeutic or diagnostic product. We do not have any product candidates other than alagebrium and ALT-2074 in clinical development, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to bring any other compound into clinical development. Adverse results of any preclinical or clinical study could cause us to materially modify our clinical development programs, resulting in delays and increased expenditures, or cease development for all or part of our ongoing stu dies of alagebrium. To achieve profitable operations, we must, alone or with others, successfully identify, develop, introduce and market proprietary products. Such products will require significant additional investment, development and preclinical and clinical testing prior to potential regulatory approval and commercialization. The development of new pharmaceutical products is highly uncertain and expensive and subject to a number of significant risks. Potential products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market for a number of reasons. Potential products may be found ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical studies, fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals, be difficult to manufacture on a large scale, be uneconomical, fail to achieve market acceptance or be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. We may not be able to undertake additional clinical studies. In addition, our product development efforts may not be successfully completed, we may not have the funds to complete any ongoing clinical trials, we may not obtain regulatory approvals, and our products, if introduced, may not be successfully marketed or achieve customer acceptance. We do not expect any of our products, including alagebrium, to be commercially available for a number of years, if at all. 20 Failure to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal controls and to achieve and maintain effective internal control in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. During the audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, the review of our financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and the review of our financial statements for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses regarding our internal controls over the identification of and the accounting for non-routine transactions, including certain costs related to potential strategic transactions, severance benefits, the financial statement recording and disclosure of stock options that we have granted to non-employee consultants in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) 96-18, accounting for the acquisition of HaptoGuard and the adoption of SFAS 123(R). As defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2, a material weakness is a significant contro l deficiency or a combination of significant control deficiencies that results in there being more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. These material weaknesses did not result in the restatement of any previously reported financial statements or any other related financial disclosure. While these material weaknesses continue to exist as of December 31, 2006, management is in the process of implementing remedial controls to address these matters. The Company has solicited the services of an outside consulting firm to assist in complex and non-routine accounting transactions. Management is nonetheless continuing to monitor and assess the controls to ensure continued compliance. In addition, the changes that would have resulted in the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, March 31, 2006 and September 30, 2006 as a consequence of the material weaknesses, were deemed by the C ompany to be immaterial but were nevertheless recorded by the Company. However, we cannot currently assure you that the remedial measures that are currently being implemented will be sufficient to result in a conclusion that our internal controls no longer contain any material weaknesses, and that our internal controls are effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that, even if we are able to achieve effective internal control over financial reporting, our internal controls will remain effective for any period of time. The failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Our product candidates will remain subject to ongoing regulatory review even if they receive marketing approval. If we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose these approvals and the sale of our products could be suspended. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market a particular product candidate, the approval could be granted with the condition that we conduct additional costly post-approval studies or that we limit the indicated uses included in our labeling. Moreover, the product may later cause adverse effects that limit or prevent its widespread use, force us to withdraw it from the market or impede or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in additional countries. In addition, the manufacturer of the product and its facilities will continue to be subject to FDA review and periodic inspections to ensure adherence to applicable regulations. After receiving marketing approval, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing regu latory requirements or adoption of new regulatory requirements. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA and other applicable United States and foreign regulatory authorities or if previously unknown problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: · restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; · warning letters; · civil or criminal penalties; · fines; · injunctions; · product seizures or detentions; · import bans; 21 · voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; · suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; · total or partial suspension of production; and · refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications. In similar fashion to the FDA, foreign regulatory authorities require demonstration of product quality, safety and efficacy prior to granting authorization for product registration which allows for distribution of the product for commercial sale. International organizations, such as the World Health Organization, and foreign government agencies, including those for the Americas, Middle East, Europe, Asia and the Pacific, have laws, regulations and guidelines for reporting and evaluating the data on safety, quality and efficacy of new drug products. Although most of these laws, regulations and guidelines are very similar, each of the individual nations reviews all of the information available on the new drug product and makes an independent determination for product registration. A finding of product quality, safety or efficiency in one jurisdiction does not guarantee approval in any other jurisdiction, even if the other jurisdiction has simila r laws, regulations and guidelines. If we cannot successfully form and maintain suitable arrangements with third parties for the manufacturing of the products we may develop, our ability to develop or deliver products may be impaired. We have no experience in manufacturing products and do not have manufacturing facilities. Consequently, we will depend on contract manufacturers for the production of any products for development and commercial purposes. The manufacture of our products for clinical trials and commercial purposes is subject to current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, regulations promulgated by the FDA. In the event that we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturing capabilities for our products, we will not be able to commercialize our products as planned. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers will expose us to risks that could delay or prevent the initiation or completion of our clinical trials, the submission of applications for regulatory approvals, the approval of our products by the FDA or the commercialization of our products or result in higher costs or lost product revenues. In particular, contract manufacturers: · could encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance and suffer shortages of qualified personnel, which could result in their inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs to meet our clinical schedules or to commercialize our product candidates; · could terminate or choose not to renew the manufacturing agreement, based on their own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us; · could fail to establish and follow FDA-mandated cGMP, as required for FDA approval of our product candidates, or fail to document their adherence to cGMP, either of which could lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical study and delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our product candidates; and · could breach, or fail to perform as agreed, under the manufacturing agreement. Changing any manufacturer that we engage for a particular product or product candidate may be difficult, as the number of potential manufacturers is limited, and we will have to compete with third parties for access to those manufacturing facilities. cGMP processes and procedures typically must be reviewed and approved by the FDA, and changing manufacturers may require re-validation of any new facility for cGMP compliance, which would likely be costly and time-consuming. We may not be able to engage replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms quickly or at all. In addition, contract manufacturers located in foreign countries may be subject to import limitations or bans. As a result, if any of our contract manufacturers are unable, for whatever reason, to supply the contracted amounts of our products that we successfully bring to market, a shortage would result which would have a negative impact on our revenues. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit the performance of third-party contractors, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations 22 could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant pre-market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of any products that we develop may adversely affect our profit margin, if any, on the sale of any future products and our ability to develop and deliver such products on a timely and competitive basis. If we are not able to protect the intellectual property rights that are critical to our success, the development and any possible sales of our product candidates could suffer and competitors could force our products completely out of the market. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products, preserve our trade secrets, prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and abroad. The degree of patent protection afforded to pharmaceutical inventions is uncertain and our potential products are subject to this uncertainty. Competitors may develop competitive products outside the protection that may be afforded by the claims of our patents. We are aware that other parties have been issued patents and have filed patent applications in the United States and foreign countries with respect to other agents that have an effect on A.G.E.s, or the formation of A.G.E. crosslinks. In addition, although we have several patent applications pending to protect proprietary technology and potential products, these patents may not be issued, and the claims of any patents that do issue, may not provide significant protection of our technology or products. In addition, we may not enjoy any patent protection beyond the expiration dates of our currently issued patents. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to maintain, develop and expand our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and certain, but not all, corporate partners and consultants. Relevant inventions may be developed by a person not bound by an invention assignment agreement. Binding agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may become known to or be independently discovered by competitors. If we are unable to operate our business without infringing upon intellectual property rights of others, we may not be able to operate our business profitably. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. We are aware that patents have been applied for and/or issued to third parties claiming technologies for A.G.E.s or glutathione peroxidase mimetics that may be similar to those needed by us. To the extent that planned or potential products are covered by patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties, we would need a license under such patents or other intellectual property rights to continue development and marketing of our products. Any required licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain such licenses on reasonable terms, we may not be able to proceed with the development, manufacture or sale of our products. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation or interference proceedings could result in substantial additional costs and diversion of management focus. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending against claims of infringement, we may be unable to operate profitably. ALT-2074 and other former HaptoGuard compounds are licensed by third parties and if we are unable to continue licensing this technology, our future prospects may be materially adversely affected. We are a party to various license agreements with third parties that give us exclusive and partial exclusive rights to use specified technologies applicable to research, development and commercialization of our products, including alagebrium and ALT-2074. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. To maintain the license for certain technology related to ALT-2074 that we received from OXIS, we are obligated to meet certain development and clinical trial milestones and to make certain payments. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet any milestone or make any payment required under the license with OXIS. In addition, if we fail to meet any milestone or make any payment, there can be no assurance that we may be able to negotiate an 23 arrangement with OXIS, as we have successfully done in the past, whereby we will continue to have access to the ALT-2074 technology. The technology HaptoGuard licensed from third parties would be difficult or impossible to replace and the loss of this technology would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and any future prospects. If we are not able to compete successfully with other companies in the development and marketing of cures and therapies for cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and the other conditions for which we seek to develop products, we may not be able to continue our operations. We are engaged in pharmaceutical fields characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. Many established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with financial, technical and human resources greater than ours are attempting to develop, or have developed, products that would be competitive with our products. Many of these companies have extensive experience in preclinical and human clinical studies. Other companies may succeed in developing products that are safer, more efficacious or less costly than any we may develop and may also be more successful than us in production and marketing. Rapid technological development by others may result in our products becoming obsolete before we recover a significant portion of the research, development or commercialization expenses incurred with respect to those products. Certain technologies under development by other pharmaceutical companies could result in better treatments for cardiovascular disease, and diabetes and its related complications. Several large companies have initiated or expanded research, development and licensing efforts to build pharmaceutical franchises focusing on these medical conditions, and some companies already have products approved and available for commercial sale to treat these indications. It is possible that one or more of these initiatives may reduce or eliminate the market for some of our products. In addition, other companies have initiated research in the inhibition or crosslink breaking of A.G.E.s. Our ability to compete successfully against currently existing and future alternatives to our product candidates and systems, and competitors who compete directly with us in the small molecule drug industry will depend, in part, on our ability to: · attract and retain skilled scientific and research personnel; · develop technologically superior products; · develop competitively priced products; · obtain patent or other required regulatory approvals for our products; · be early entrants to the market; and · manufacture, market and sell our products, independently or through collaborations. We depend on third parties for research and development activities necessary to commercialize certain of our patents. We utilize the services of several scientific and technical consultants to oversee various aspects of our protocol design, clinical trial oversight and other research and development functions. We contract out most of our research and development operations using third-party contract manufacturers for drug inventory and shipping services and third-party contract research organizations in connection with preclinical and/or clinical studies in accordance with our designed protocols, as well as conducting research at medical and academic centers. Because we rely on third parties for much of our research and development work, we have less direct control over our research and development. We face risks that these third parties may not be appropriately responsive to our time frames and development needs and could devote resources to other customers. In addition, certain of these third parties may have to comply with FDA regulations or other regulatory requirements in the conduct of this research and development work, which they may fail to do. If governments and third-party payers continue their efforts to contain or decrease the costs of healthcare, we may not be able to commercialize our products successfully. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be federal and state initiatives to control and/or reduce pharmaceutical expenditures. In certain foreign markets, pricing and/or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals 24 are subject to government control. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any products for which we may receive regulatory approval to develop and sell in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, to the extent that cost control initiatives have a material adverse effect on our corporate partners, our ability to commercialize our products may be adversely affected. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payers. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products, and third-party payers, including Medicare, frequently challenge the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to subjects for any products developed by us. Government and other third-party payers are attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new therapeutic products and by refusing in some cases to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. If government and other third-party payers for ou r products do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels, the market acceptance of these products would be adversely affected. If the users of the products that we are developing claim that our products have harmed them, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face exposure to product liability and other claims due to allegations that our products cause harm. These risks are inherent in the clinical trials for pharmaceutical products and in the testing, and future manufacturing and marketing of, our products. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, such insurance is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage in the future at a reasonable cost, if at all. If we are unable to obtain product liability insurance in the future at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we could be inhibited in the commercialization of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The coverage will be maintained and limits reviewed from time to time as the combined company progresses to later stages of its clinical trials, and as the length of the trials and the number of patients enrolled in the trials changes. We intend to obtain a combined coverage policy that includes tail coverage in order to cover any claims that are made for any events that have occurred prior to the merger. We currently have a policy covering $10 million of product liability for our clinical trials, for which our annual premium is approximately $118,000. However, insurance coverage and our resources may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from product liability claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Owning Alteon’s Common Stock We have been notified by the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (“AMEX”) that we are not in compliance with continued listing standards, which may result in a delisting of our common stock if we cannot regain compliance. On January 30, 2007, we reported that we had received a notice from AMEX indicating that AMEX has accepted our plan to regain compliance with AMEX continued listing standards, and that our listing will be continued pursuant to an extension until April 9, 2008. We submitted a plan of compliance to AMEX on November 6, 2006, outlining our operational plan and strategic objectives, and amended our plan of compliance on January 3, 2007 and January 5, 2007 (the “Plan of Compliance”). The Plan of Compliance was prepared in response to a notice we received from AMEX on October 9, 2006, indicating that we were below certain AMEX continuing listing standards due to (i) sustaining losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in two out of our three most recent fiscal years with stockholders’ equity below $2,000,000; (ii) sustaining losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three o ut of our four most recent fiscal years with stockholders’ equity below $4,000,000; and (iii) sustaining losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in our five most recent fiscal years with stockholders’ equity below $6,000,000. To date, we have not regained compliance with such continued listing standards and cannot assure you that we can achieve the Plan of Compliance in such a way as to regain compliance with AMEX’s continuing listing standards. 25 Our stock price is volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at a profit. We first publicly issued common stock on November 8, 1991 at $15.00 per share in our initial public offering and it has been subject to fluctuations since that time. For example, during 2006, the closing sale price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $0.32 per share to a low of $0.13 per share. The market price of our common stock could continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: · quarterly fluctuations in results of operations; · material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting; · the announcement of new products or services by us or competitors; · sales of common stock by existing stockholders or the perception that these sales may occur; · adverse judgments or settlements obligating the combined company to pay damages; · negative publicity; · loss of key personnel; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents and litigation matters; and · clinical trial or regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries. In addition, overall stock market volatility has often significantly affected the market prices of securities for reasons unrelated to a company’s operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has been commenced against companies that have experienced periods of volatility in the price of their stock. Securities litigation initiated against the combined company could cause it to incur substantial costs and could lead to the diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on revenue and earnings. We have a large number of authorized but unissued shares of common stock, which our Board of Directors may issue without further stockholder approval, thereby causing dilution of your holdings of our common stock. After the closing of the merger and the financings, there are 170,681,142 shares of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock. Our management will continue to have broad discretion to issue shares of our common stock in a range of transactions, including capital-raising transactions, mergers, acquisitions, for anti-takeover purposes, and in other transactions, without obtaining stockholder approval, unless stockholder approval is required for a particular transaction under the rules of AMEX, Delaware law, or other applicable laws. If our management determines to issue shares of our common stock from the large pool of such authorized but unissued shares for any purpose in the future without obtaining stockholder approval, your ownership position would be diluted without your further ability to vote on that transaction. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and may impair the combined company’s ability to raise capital through additional offerings. We currently have outstanding warrants and options to purchase an aggregate of 59,106,578 shares of our common stock, including warrants to purchase 25,734,453 shares of our common stock in connection with a private financing completed in January 2007. The shares issued in the private financing, together with the shares underlying the warrants issued in such financing, represent approximately 19% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding immediately prior to the financing. Sales of these shares in the public market, or the perception that future sales of such shares could occur, could have the effect of lowering the market price of our common stock below current levels and make it more difficult for us and our stockholders to sell our equity securities in the future. Our executive officers, directors and holders of more than 5% of our common stock collectively beneficially own approximately 28% of the outstanding common stock, which includes fully vested options to purchase common stock. In addition, approximately 2,147,294 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of vested stock options could become available for immediate resale if such options were exercised. 26 Sale or the availability for sale, of shares of common stock by stockholders could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of additional equity securities. Anti-takeover provisions may frustrate attempts to replace our current management and discourage investors from buying our common stock. We have entered into a Stockholders’ Rights Agreement pursuant to which each holder of a share of our common stock is granted a Right to purchase our Series F Preferred Stock (“Preferred Stock”) under certain circumstances if a person or group acquires, or commences a tender offer for, 20% of our outstanding common stock. We also have severance obligations to certain employees in the event of termination of their employment after or in connection with a triggering event as defined in the Alteon Severance Plan. In addition, the Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to fix the rights and preferences of, and issue shares of, Preferred Stock. The staggered board terms, Fair Price Provision, Stockholders’ Rights Agreement, severance arrangements, Preferred Stock provisions and other provisions of our charter and Delaware corporate law may discourage certain types of transactions involv ing an actual or potential change in control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 