Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion outlines certain risk factors that could affect the Fund’s results for 2010 and beyond and cause them to differ materially from those that may be set forth in any forward-looking statement made by us or on its behalf. Readers should carefully consider these risks and all other information contained in the annual report on Form 10-K, including the Fund’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Fund. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Fund, or not presently deemed material by the Fund, may also impair its operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Fund’s business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of its common stock could decline and a shareholder may lose all or part of the shareholder’s investment. Risks Related to the Fund’s Investments Investments in privately held middle market and small capitalization companies present certain risks that may not exist to the same degree as investments in larger, more established companies and will cause such investments to be volatile and speculative. The Fund currently invests, and will continue to invest, in private, small or new companies that may be in their early stages of development. Investments in these types of companies involve a number of significant risks including the following: • They typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than public companies, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions as well as general economic downturns; 12 Table of Contents • They may have no earnings or greater earnings volatility and could experience losses or may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their equity securities or any collateral or guarantees provided with respect to their debt; • They are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons and, as a result, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of those persons could have a material adverse impact on their business and prospects and, in turn, on its investment; • They may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs; • They generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and • Generally little public information exists about these companies and investors in those companies generally must rely on the ability of the equity sponsor to obtain adequate information for the purposes of evaluating potential returns and making a fully informed investment decision. Our financial position and results of operations could be affected adversely if a significant portion of our portfolio is invested in industries that experience adverse economic or business conditions. From time to time, we target specific industries in which to invest on a recurring basis. This practice could concentrate a significant portion of our portfolio in a specific industry. As of December 31, 2009, our investments in entertainment and leisure and business products and services represented 24.8% and 24.4%, respectively, of net assets. If an industry in which we have significant investments suffers from adverse business or economic conditions, a material portion of our investment portfolio could be affected adversely, which, in turn, could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our financial results could be affected adversely if a significant portfolio investment fails to perform as expected. Our total investment in companies may be significant individually or in the aggregate. As a result, if a significant investment in one or more companies fails to perform as expected, our financial results could be more negatively affected and the magnitude of the loss could be more significant than if we had made smaller investments in a greater number of companies. Beginning in late 2007 and continuing through 2009, the U.S. and worldwide economies experienced a period of capital markets disruption and significant contraction, and the Board and management expect these conditions could continue to have a negative impact on the Fund. The disruption in the capital markets has contributed to the decrease in the Fund’s net asset value and stock price, has materially damaged its business and operations, and could continue to do so. Since late 2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a lack of liquidity. These market conditions were initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. For over a year, the global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility, short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. We believe that the U.S. economy has entered into a period of recession and forecasts for 2010 generally call for further weakness in the economy. As of December 31, 2009, our common stock was trading at $3.20 per share, or at 55.7% of net asset value. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to monetize assets in a difficult market environment that precludes our target buyers from making investments at the fair values established by our board of directors. We are susceptible to the risk of significant loss if we are forced to discount the value of our investments in order to monetize assets to provide liquidity to fund operations, meet our liability maturities and to maintain compliance with our debt covenants. In addition, if the fair value of our assets declines substantially, we may fail to maintain the BDC asset coverage ratios stipulated by the 1940 Act. Any such failure would affect our ability to issue senior securities, including borrowings, pay dividends and could cause us to breach certain covenants in our credit facilities, which could materially impair our business operations. Further asset value degradation may result from circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, a protracted economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. Ongoing disruptive conditions could cause our stock price and net asset value to decline, restrict our business operations and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If market constraints further prevent us from obtaining additional debt or equity capital, our liquidity could be adversely affected, our business prospects could be negatively impacted, we could lose key employees and our operating results could be negatively affected. The current economic and capital market conditions in the U.S. have resulted in a severe reduction in the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole, and financial services firms in particular. These conditions have constrained us and other companies in the financial services sector, limiting or completely preventing access to markets for debt and equity capital needed to maintain operations, continue investment originations and to grow. If these conditions continue for a prolonged period of time, or worsen in the future, we could lose key employees and access to leverage and our business prospects could be negatively impacted. In addition, the debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and/or less favorable terms and conditions. Equity capital is, and may continue to be, difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, we are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. These events and inability to raise capital have resulted in the suspension of new originations, curtailed our ability to grow and had a negative impact on our liquidity and operating results. The continued inability to raise additional capital could further constrain our liquidity, negatively impact our business prospects, cause the departure of key employees and negatively impact our operating results. If we fail to qualify as a regulated investment company, we will have to pay corporate-level taxes on our income and our income available for distribution would be reduced significantly or eliminated. We have elected to be taxed for federal income tax purposes as a regulated investment company, or RIC, under Subchapter M of the Internal Revenue Code. To qualify as a RIC under the Internal Revenue Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, on an annual basis. If we do not distribute at least 98% of our annual taxable income, we generally will be required to pay an excise tax on amounts carried over and distributed to stockholders in the next year equal to 4% of the amount by which 98% of our annual taxable income exceeds the distributions from such income for the current year. We have met our distribution requirements as a RIC for 2009. However, we may have difficulty meeting the requirement to make distributions to our stockholders because in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. Consequently, if we are unable to obtain cash from other sources to satisfy our distributions to our stockholders, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. The Internal Revenue Service recently issued a Revenue Procedure that provides temporary cash flow relief to RICs, including BDCs, by allowing them to satisfy their federal tax income distribution requirements through the use of substantial amounts of their own stock, rather than solely cash or other RIC assets. Although there has been some guidance that suggests that distributions of stock consistent with the Revenue Procedure will not be 14 Table of Contents viewed as violating the provisions of the 1940 Act relating to sales of shares below net asset value and do not need to be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, any such distributions require complicated compliance procedures and would be dilutive to existing stockholders. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may, in certain instances, result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments are in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become subject to corporate-level income tax, the resulting corporate-level taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on our stockholders and us. There is uncertainty regarding the value of the Fund’s privately held securities. The Fund’s net asset value is based on the value the Fund assigns to its portfolio investments. The Fund determines the value of its investments in securities for which market quotations are not available as of the end of each calendar quarter, unless there is a significant event requiring a change in valuation in the interim. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the valuation of portfolio securities that do not have readily ascertainable market values, its fair value determination may differ materially from the value that would have been used had a ready market existed for the securities. The Fund determines the fair value of investments for which no market quotations are available based upon a methodology that the Fund believes reaches a reasonable estimation of fair value. The Fund’s determinations of the fair value of its investments have a material impact on its net earnings through the recording of unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments as well as its assessment of interest income recognition. The Fund’s net asset value could be affected materially if its determinations of the fair value of its investments differ materially from values based on a ready market for these securities. The Fund depends upon management for its future success. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and other key management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or key management personnel could result in inefficiencies in our operations and lost business opportunities, which could have a negative impact on our business. Gary Forbes, an executive officer and a key member of management, has announced his intention to retire in the near future. Since Mr. Forbes has substantial investment experience and expertise and has generally been responsible for monitoring the status of the Fund’s investments and maintaining relationships with its portfolio companies, his retirement could adversely affect the Fund. On February 18, 2010, the Fund announced the appointment of S. J. “Jay” Brown as the Fund’s Chief Investment Officer. The Fund may not realize gains from its equity investments. The Fund frequently invests in the equity securities of its portfolio companies. Also, when the Fund makes a loan, it generally receives warrants to acquire stock issued by the borrower. Ultimately, the Fund’s goal is to sell these equity interests and realize gains. These equity interests may not appreciate and, in fact, may depreciate in value. Several of its portfolio companies have experienced net losses in recent years or have negative net worth as of the most recent available balance sheet date. Also, the market value of the Fund’s equity investments may fall below its estimate of the fair value of such investments before it sells them. Given these factors, there is a risk that the Fund will not realize gains upon the sale of those or other equity interests that it holds. The Fund may not be able to make additional investments in its portfolio companies from time to time, which may dilute its interests in such companies. After its initial investment in a portfolio company, the Fund may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company, or may have the opportunity to increase its investment in that company through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock or through follow-on investments in the 15 Table of Contents debt or equity of that company. There is no assurance that the Fund will make, or have sufficient funds to make, any such follow-on investments. Any decision by the Fund not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on its part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of investment and may result in a missed opportunity for the Fund to increase its participation in a successful operation. A decision not to make a follow-on investment may also dilute its equity interest in, or reduce the expected return on its investment. The Fund has invested in a limited number of portfolio companies. The Fund is classified as a “non-diversified” investment company under the 1940 Act, which means the Fund is not limited in the proportion of its assets that may be invested in the securities of a single issuer. As a matter of policy, the Fund does not initially invest more than 15% of the value of its net assets in a single portfolio company. However, follow-on investments, disproportionate increases or decreases in the fair value of certain portfolio companies or sales of investments may result in more than 15% of its net assets being invested in a single portfolio company at a particular time. As of December 31, 2009, the Fund had investments in 13 entities. A consequence of a limited number of investments is that changes in business or industry trends or in the financial condition, results of operations or the market’s assessment of any single portfolio company will affect the Fund’s net asset value and the market price of its common stock to a greater extent than would be the case if the Fund were a “diversified” company holding a greater number of investments. The lack of liquidity of the Fund’s privately held securities may adversely affect its business. The Fund’s portfolio investments consist principally of securities that are subject to restrictions on sale because they are not listed or publicly traded securities. If any of these securities were to become publicly traded, the Fund’s ability to sell them would still be restricted because it acquired them from the issuer in “private placement” transactions or because the Fund may be deemed to be an affiliate of the issuer. The Fund will not be able to sell these securities publicly without the expense and time required to register the securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and applicable state securities laws, unless an exemption from such registration requirements is available. In addition, contractual or practical limitations may restrict its ability to liquidate its securities in portfolio companies because those securities are privately held and the Fund may own a relatively large percentage of the issuer’s outstanding securities. Sales may also be limited by market conditions, which may be unfavorable for sales of securities of particular issuers. The illiquidity of the Fund’s investments may preclude or delay any disposition of such securities, which may make it difficult for it to obtain cash equal to the value at which it records its investments if the need arises. The Fund has limited public information regarding the companies in which it invests. The Fund’s portfolio generally consists of securities issued by privately held companies. There is generally little or no publicly available information about such companies, and the Fund must rely on the diligence of its management to obtain the information necessary for its decision to invest in them and in order to monitor them effectively. There can be no assurance that such diligence efforts will uncover all material information about such privately held businesses necessary to make fully informed investment decisions. The Fund’s portfolio companies may be highly leveraged. Investments in leveraged buyouts and in highly leveraged companies involve a high degree of business and financial risk and can result in substantial losses. A leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. The use of leverage by portfolio companies also magnifies the increase or decrease in the value of a Fund investment as compared to the overall change in the enterprise value of a portfolio company. 16 Table of Contents Many of the Fund’s portfolio companies have incurred substantial debt in relation to their equity capital. Such indebtedness generally has a term that will require the balance of the loan be refinanced when it matures. If a portfolio company cannot generate adequate cash flow to meet the principal and interest payments on its debt or is not successful in refinancing the debt upon its maturity, its investment could be reduced or eliminated through foreclosure on the portfolio company’s assets or by the portfolio company’s reorganization or bankruptcy. A substantial portion of the debt incurred by portfolio companies may bear interest at rates that fluctuate in accordance with a stated interest rate index or the prime lending rate. The cash flow of a portfolio company may not be sufficient to meet increases in interest payments on its debt. Accordingly, the profitability of the Fund’s portfolio companies, as well as the value of its investments in such companies, will depend significantly upon prevailing interest rates. Leverage may impair the ability of the Fund’s portfolio companies to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, the ability of the Fund’s portfolio companies to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to business opportunities may be limited. The Fund’s business depends on external financing. The Fund’s business requires a substantial amount of cash to operate. The Fund may borrow funds to pay contingencies or expenses or to make investments, to maintain its pass-through tax status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. The Fund is permitted under the 1940 Act to borrow if, immediately after the borrowing, the Fund has an asset coverage ratio of at least 200%. That is, the Fund may borrow an amount equal to as much as 50% of the fair value of its total assets (including investments made with borrowed funds). The amount and nature of any such borrowings depend upon a number of factors over which the Fund has no control, including general economic conditions, conditions in the financial markets and the impact of the financing on the tax treatment of its stockholders. In 2008, the Fund entered into a loan agreement with Amegy Bank providing it with a credit facility not to exceed $7.5 million. The use of leverage, even on a short-term basis, could have the effect of magnifying increases or decreases in its net asset value. While the “spread” between the current yield on its investments and the cost of any loan would augment the stockholders’ return from the Fund, if the spread narrows (because of an increase in the cost of debt or insufficient income on its investments), distributions to the stockholders could be adversely affected. This may render the Fund unable to meet its obligations to its lenders, which might then require it to liquidate some or all of its investments. There can be no assurance that the Fund would realize full value for its investments or recoup all of its capital if the Fund needed to liquidate its portfolio investments. Many financial institutions today are unwilling to lend against a portfolio of illiquid, private securities. The make-up of the Fund’s portfolio has made it more difficult for it to borrow at the level and on the terms that the Fund desires. Its borrowings have historically consisted of a revolving line of credit, the proceeds of which the Fund has used to provide liquidity for expenses and contingencies and to make new or follow-on investments, and a line of credit promissory note or margin account used quarterly to enable the Fund to achieve adequate diversification to maintain its pass-through tax status as a RIC. The costs of borrowing money may exceed the income from the portfolio securities the Fund purchases with the borrowed money. The Fund will suffer a decline in net asset value if the investment performance of the additional securities purchased with borrowed money fails to cover their cost to the Fund (including any interest paid on the money borrowed). A decline in net investment income resulting in a decline in net asset value could affect its ability to make distributions on its common stock. The Fund’s failure to distribute a sufficient portion of its net investment income and net realized capital gains could result in a loss of pass-through tax status or subject it to a 4% excise tax. If the asset coverage for debt securities issued by the Fund declines to less than 200% (as a result of market fluctuations or otherwise), it may be required to sell a portion of its investments when it is disadvantageous to do so. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 17 Table of Contents The Fund may not pay dividends. On March 24, 2009, the Fund announced that it suspended its managed distribution policy and payment of quarterly distributions for an indefinite period, following the distribution of the first quarter dividend to be paid on March 30, 2009. As originally implemented, the policy provided for quarterly dividends at an annualized rate equal to 10% of the Fund’s market value per share as at the end of the preceding calendar year. The Fund will continue to pay out net investment income and/or realized capital gains, if any, on an annual basis as required under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and Internal Revenue Code. The Fund operates in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. The Fund competes with a large number of private equity funds and mezzanine funds, investment banks and other equity and non-equity based investment funds, investment entities, foreign investors and individuals and other sources of financing, including tradition financial services companies such as commercial banks. In recent years, the number of investment vehicles seeking privately held middle market and small capitalization investments has increased dramatically. Many of the Fund’s competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial resources, and some may be subject to different and frequently less stringent regulation. As its portfolio size gets larger, the Fund expects that some of its investments will be larger as well. The Fund believes that it will face increased competition to participate in these larger transactions. These competitors may have a lower cost of funds and many have access to funding sources that are not available to the Fund. In addition, some of its competitors may have higher risk tolerances or difference risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships and build their market shares. As a result of this competition, the Fund may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time. There is no assurance that the competitive pressures the Fund faces will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Fund’s investments in foreign securities, if any, may involve significant risks in addition to the risks inherent in U.S. investments. The Fund’s investment strategy contemplates that a portion of its investments may be made in securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose the Fund to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks may include fluctuations in foreign currency values, changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. Although most of the Fund’s investments are denominated in U.S. dollars, any investments that are denominated in a foreign currency are subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency may change in relation to one or more other currencies. Among the factors that may affect currency values are trade balances, the level of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. The Fund may employ hedging techniques to minimize these risks, but it can offer no assurance that it will, in fact, hedge currency risk or that, if it does, such strategies will be effective. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which the Fund’s portfolio companies operate, their operations and the Fund’s profitability. An economic downturn could affect the Fund’s operating results. An economic downturn such as the one that the worldwide economy is currently experiencing, as described further under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” may 18 Table of Contents have an acute adverse affect on small capitalization or middle market companies, which are the Fund’s primary market for investments. During periods of adverse economic conditions, these companies may experience decreased revenues, financial losses, difficulty in obtaining access to financing and increased funding costs. During such periods, these companies may also have difficulty expanding their businesses and operations and may be unable to meet their debt service obligations or other expenses as they become due. Any of the foregoing developments could cause the value of the Fund’s investments in these companies to decline. In addition, during periods of adverse economic conditions, the Fund may have difficulty accessing financial markets, which could make it more difficult or impossible for it to obtain funding for additional investments. These results could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Fund may experience fluctuations in its quarterly results. The Fund could experience fluctuations in its quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which it encounters competition in its markets, the ability to find and close suitable investments and general economic conditions. The volatility of its results is exacerbated by its relatively small number of investments. As a result of these factors, the shareholder should not rely on the Fund’s results for any period as being indicative of performance in future periods. The due diligence process that the Fund undertakes in connection with its investments may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment. Before making its investments, the Fund conducts due diligence that it deems reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. The objective of the due diligence process is to identify attractive investment opportunities based on the facts and circumstances surrounding an investment and to prepare a framework that may be used from the date of an acquisition to drive operational achievement and value creation. When conducting due diligence, the Fund evaluates a number of important business, financial, tax, accounting, environmental and legal issues in determining whether or not to proceed with an investment. Its due diligence review with respect to a potential portfolio company typically includes, but is not limited to, a review of historical and prospective financial information including audits and budgets, on-site visits and interviews with management, employees, customers and vendors, a review of business plans and an analysis of the consistency of operations with those plans, and other research relating to the company, management, industry, markets, products and services, and competitors. Outside consultants, legal advisers, accountants and investment banks are expected to be involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, the Fund is required to rely on resources available to it, including information provided by the portfolio company and, in some circumstances, third party investigations. The due diligence process may at times be subjective, including with respect to newly organized companies for which only limited information is available. Accordingly, the Fund cannot assure the shareholder the due diligence investigation it will carry out with respect to any investment opportunity will reveal or highlight all relevant facts that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity. The Fund also cannot assure the shareholder such an investigation will result in the success of an investment. Risks Related to the Fund’s Business and Structure The Fund’s ability to invest in private companies may be limited in certain circumstances. If the Fund is to maintain its status as a business development company, the Fund must not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of its total assets are qualifying assets. A principal category of qualifying assets relevant to the Fund’s business is securities purchased in transactions not involving any public offering from an issuer that is an eligible portfolio company. Investments in companies organized outside of the United States or having a principal place of business outside of the United States are not eligible portfolio companies. 19 Table of Contents Any failure on the Fund’s part to maintain its status as a business development company would reduce its operating flexibility. If the Fund does not remain a business development company, it might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject it to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act. This could impose tighter limitations on it in terms of the use of leverage and transactions with affiliated entities. Such developments would correspondingly decrease the Fund’s operating flexibility. The Fund may not continue to qualify as a RIC under the Code. To remain entitled to the tax benefits accorded to RICs under the Code, the Fund must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. To qualify as a RIC, the Fund must derive each taxable year at least 90% of its gross income from dividends, interest, payments with respect to certain securities loans, gains from the sale of stock or other securities or foreign currencies, or other income derived with respect to its business of investing in such stock or securities or currencies and net income from interests in certain “qualified” publicly traded partnerships. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if the Fund distributes at least 90% of its ordinary net taxable income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, to its stockholders on an annual basis. As discussed above in “The Fund’s business depends on external financing,” the Fund has historically borrowed funds necessary to make qualifying investments to satisfy the Subchapter M diversification requirements. To the Fund’s knowledge, the Internal Revenue Service has not provided definitive guidance on a RIC borrowing and investing in the noted manner to comply with the diversification test. If the Service were to take a contrary view to the Fund’s and/or the Fund were unable to borrow sufficient funds in the future, the Fund may no longer qualify as a RIC. If the Fund fails to satisfy such diversification requirements and ceases to qualify for conduit tax treatment, it will be subject to income tax on its income and gains and will not be permitted to deduct distributions paid to stockholders. In addition, its distributions will be taxable as ordinary dividends to the extent paid from earnings and profits. The Fund may also cease to qualify as a RIC, or be subject to income tax and/or a 4% excise tax, if it fails to distribute a sufficient portion of its net investment income and net realized capital gains. The loss of its RIC qualification would have a material adverse effect on the total return, if any, obtainable from an investment in its common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 