ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section summarizes certain risks, among others, that should be considered by stockholders and prospective investors in the Company. Many of these risks are also discussed in other sections of this report. The Company’s secured debt became due on August 1, 2009 and was not repaid. The Company maintains a significant amount of debt. The Company has long-term debt of $226.4 million, as evidenced by a promissory note to the agent for the Company’s lenders (“Lenders”). This indebtedness is secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company and matured on August 1, 2009. The Company was not able to repay or refinance this debt at or prior to maturity. As a result, the Company must refinance the debt, extend the maturity, restructure or make other arrangements, some of which could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Company’s common stock. Furthermore, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm added an explanatory paragraph to their report on the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 that noted these conditions indicated that the Company may be unable to continue as a going concern. Given the unfavorable conditions in the current debt market, the Company believes that third-party refinancing of the debt will not be possible at this time. There can be no assurance that any of the Company’s efforts to address the debt maturity issue can be completed on favorable terms or at all. Other factors, such as uncertainty regarding the Company’s future profitability could also limit the Company’s ability to resolve the debt maturity issue. Subject to the limitations provided by the current forbearance agreement (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources”), the Company’s Lenders have the right to foreclose on substantially all assets of the Company, and this would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity, financial condition, and the value of the Company’s common stock. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Trends, Events and Uncertainties” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, as well as reductions from other third party payors, are having a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition, and future reductions could have further adverse effects. On February 8, 2006, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) was signed into law. The DRA has reduced the reimbursement of certain products provided by the Company and significantly reduced reimbursement related to oxygen beginning in 2009. On July 15, 2008, the Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (the “MIPPA”) was enacted and has further reduced reimbursement for certain products. These reductions have had and will continue to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, net income, cash flows and capital resources. Enacted reimbursement cuts, as well as, pending and proposed reimbursement cuts may negatively affect the Company’s business and prospects. See 19 Table of Contents “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Trends, Events and Uncertainties – Reimbursement Changes and the Company’s Response.” For the year ended December 31, 2009, the percentage of the Company’s revenues derived from Medicare, Medicaid and all other payors was 50%, 8%, and 42%, respectively. The revenues and profitability of the Company may be impacted by the efforts of payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by delaying payments, lowering reimbursement rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services, and negotiating reduced contract pricing. Reductions in reimbursement levels under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and net income. Additional Medicare reimbursement reductions have been proposed that would have a substantial and material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, net income, cash flows and capital resources. Changes in the mix of the Company’s patients among Medicare, Medicaid and private pay categories and among different types of private pay sources may also affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to maintain its current payor mix, revenue mix, or reimbursement levels, a change in any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, net income, cash flows and capital resources. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Highland Capital Management, L.P. controls approximately 48% of the Company’s common stock and controls a majority of the Company’s $226.4 million secured debt, which may allow Highland to exert significant influence on certain aspects of our business. On April 13, 2007, Highland Capital Management, L.P. filed a Schedule 13D/A with the Securities and Exchange Commission reporting beneficial ownership of 8,437,164 shares of Company common stock, which represents approximately 48% of the outstanding shares of the Company. Highland also controls a majority of the Company’s secured promissory notes that represent $226.4 million of secured debt. Highland could exert significant influence on all matters requiring shareholder approval including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Because of its control of the Company’s debt, Highland’s interests may be different than those of holders of common stock who are not also holders of debt. The Company maintains substantial leverage. As a result of the amount of debt, a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations has been dedicated to servicing debt. The substantial leverage could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow its business or to withstand adverse economic conditions and reimbursement changes. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 20 Table of Contents The Company is subject to extensive government regulation, and the Company’s inability to comply with existing or future laws, regulations or standards could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, financial condition, business, or prospects. The Company is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, and local regulation. In addition, new laws and regulations are adopted periodically to regulate products and services in the health care industry. Changes in laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations can have a dramatic effect on operating methods, costs and reimbursement amounts provided by government and other third-party payors. There can be no assurance that the Company is in compliance with all applicable existing laws and regulations or that the Company will be able to comply with any new laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future. Changes in applicable laws, any failure by the Company to comply with existing or future laws, regulations or standards, or discovery of past regulatory noncompliance by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, financial condition, business, or prospects. Because of reimbursement reductions, the Company must continue to find ways to grow revenues and reduce expenses in order to generate earnings and cash flow. The Company has implemented, and is currently implementing, a number of expense reduction initiatives in response to reimbursement reductions. Any future significant reimbursement cuts would require the Company to alter significantly its business model and cost structure, as well as the services it provides to patients, in order to avoid substantial losses. Measures undertaken to reduce expenses by improving efficiency can have an unintended negative impact on revenues, referrals, billing, collections and other aspects of the Company’s business, any of which can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, financial condition, business, or prospects. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Company has substantial accounts receivable, and increased bad debt expense or delays in collecting accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s cash flows and results of operations. The Company has substantial accounts receivable as evidenced by DSO of 39 days as of December 31, 2009. No assurances can be given that future bad debt expense will not increase above current operating levels as a result of difficulties associated with the Company’s billing activities and meeting payor documentation requirements and claim submission deadlines. Increased bad debt expense or delays in collecting accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on cash flows and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents New healthcare legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government health care programs or initiatives may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The health care industry continues to undergo dramatic changes influenced in large part by federal legislative initiatives. It is likely new federal health care initiatives will continue to arise. The Medicare Prescription Drug and Improvement Act of 2003 and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 have had, and will continue to have, a material negative impact on the level of reimbursement. The Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 has had a material negative impact beginning in 2009. Potential reimbursement reductions associated with competitive bidding could adversely affect the Company’s future profitability. Additionally, from time to time other modifications to Medicare reimbursement have been discussed. There can be no assurance that these or other federal legislative and regulatory initiatives will not be adopted in the future. One or more of these initiatives could materially limit patient access to, or the Company’s reimbursement for, products and services provided by the Company. Also, many states have proposed decreases in Medicaid reimbursement. There can be no assurance that the adoption of such legislation or other changes in the administration or interpretation of government health care programs or initiatives will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Trends, Events, and Uncertainties – Reimbursement Changes and the Company’s Response.” The Company depends on retaining and obtaining profitable managed care contracts, and the Company’s business may be materially adversely affected if it is unable to retain or obtain such managed care contracts. As managed care plays a significant role in markets in which the Company operates, the Company’s success will, in part, depend on retaining and obtaining profitable managed care contracts. There can be no assurance that the Company will retain or obtain such managed care contracts. In addition, reimbursement rates under managed care contracts are likely to continue to experience downward pressure as a result of payors’ efforts to contain or reduce the costs of health care by increasing case management review of services, by increasing retrospective payment audits, and by negotiating reduced contract pricing. Therefore, even if the Company is successful in retaining and obtaining managed care contracts, it could experience declining profitability if the Company does not also decrease its cost for providing services and/or increase higher margin services. The Company’s common stock trades on the over-the-counter bulletin board, which reduces the liquidity of an investment in the Company. Trading of the Company’s common stock under its current trading symbol, AHOM or AHOM.OB, is conducted on the over-the-counter bulletin board which may limit the Company’s ability to raise additional capital and the ability of shareholders to sell their shares. 22 Table of Contents Compliance with privacy regulations under HIPAA could result in significant costs to the Company and delays in its collection of accounts receivable. HIPAA Administrative Simplification requires all entities engaged in certain electronic transactions to meet specific standards to ensure the confidentiality and security of individually identifiable health information. In addition, HIPAA mandates the standardization of various types of electronic transactions and the codes and identifiers used for these transactions. The Company has implemented these standards. However, there is always the potential that some state Medicaid programs that are not fully compliant with the electronic transaction standards could result in delays in collections of accounts receivables. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was signed into law. This new legislation contains significant expansions of the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and numerous other changes that will affect the Company due to the major impact on health care information and technology. The new provisions include: (1) heightened enforcement and increased penalties for covered entities; (2) extension of security provisions to business associates, vendors, and others; (3) new stringent security breach notification requirements; and, (4) patients’ rights to restrict access to protected health information. Most of the provisions of the law took effect on February 17, 2010, one year after enactment, although increased penalty provisions went into effect immediately. Other provisions require implementing regulations and will take two years or longer to take effect. Any failure to comply with this new legislation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results and financial condition. The Company is highly dependent upon its senior management. The Company’s historical financial results, debt maturity issue, and reimbursement environment, among other factors, may limit the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which in turn could adversely affect profitability. The market in which the Company operates is highly competitive, and if the Company is unable to compete successfully, its business will be materially adversely affected. The home health care market is highly fragmented and competition varies significantly from market to market. Currently, there are relatively few barriers to entry, and the Company could encounter competition from new market entrants. In small and mid-size markets, the majority of the Company’s competition comes from local independent operators or hospital-based facilities. In larger markets, regional and national providers account for a significant portion of competition. Some of the Company’s present and potential competitors are significantly larger than the Company and have, or may obtain, greater financial and marketing resources than the Company. 23 Table of Contents The provision of healthcare services entails an inherent risk of liability, and the Company’s insurance may not be sufficient to effectively protect the Company from all claims. The provision of healthcare services entails an inherent risk of liability. Certain participants in the home healthcare industry may be subject to lawsuits that may involve large claims and significant defense costs. It is expected that the Company periodically will be subject to such suits as a result of the nature of its business. The Company currently maintains product and professional liability insurance intended to cover such claims in amounts which management believes are in keeping with industry standards. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain liability insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. There can be no assurance that claims in excess of the Company’s insurance coverage will not arise. A successful claim against the Company in excess of the Company’s insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect upon the operations, financial condition or prospects of the Company. Claims against the Company, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s ability to attract patients or to expand its business. In addition, the Company maintains a large deductible for its workers’ compensation, auto liability, commercial general and professional liability insurance. The Company is self-insured for its employee health insurance and is at risk for claims up to individual stop loss and aggregate stop loss amounts. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 