Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the material risks associated with the purchase and ownership of the Company’s equity and debt securities. As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to certain business risks arising in connection with the underlying real estate, including, among other factors, the following: i) Loss of the Company’s tax status as a real estate investment trust could have significant adverse consequences to the Company and the value of its securities. The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code commencing with the taxable year beginning January 1, 1992. The Company currently intends to operate so as to qualify as a REIT and believes that the Company’s current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Code to enable us to qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control may affect the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of the Company’s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and the Company must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of the Company’s assets. Also, the Company must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of the Company’s net taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Although the Company believes that it is organized and has operated in such a manner, the Company can give no assurance that it has qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. If the Company loses its REIT status, it will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to pay dividends to Company stockholders. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT: • the Company would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing its taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • the Company also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless the Company was entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which the Company was disqualified. In addition, if the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, it would not be required to make distributions to stockholders. As a result of all these factors, the Company’s failure to qualify as a REIT could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and could adversely affect the value 22 Table of Contents of the Company’s securities. ii) Adverse market conditions and competition may impede the Company’s ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain properties. The economic performance and value of the Company’s properties are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and operating real estate including: • changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • local conditions, including an oversupply of space in properties like those that the Company owns, or a reduction in demand for properties like those that the Company owns; • the attractiveness of the Company’s properties to tenants; • the ability of tenants to pay rent; • competition from other available properties; • changes in market rental rates; • the need to periodically pay for costs to repair, renovate and re-let space; • changes in operating costs, including costs for maintenance, insurance and real estate taxes; • the fact that the expenses of owning and operating properties are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the properties; and • changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment and taxes. iii) Downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct impact on the Company’s performance. The Company’s properties consist primarily of community and neighborhood shopping centers and other retail properties. The Company’s performance therefore is linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space generally. The market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets, and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues and the internet. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space. iv) Failure by any anchor tenant with leases in multiple locations to make rental payments to the Company because of a deterioration of its financial condition or otherwise, could impact the Company’s performance. The Company’s performance depends on its ability to collect rent from tenants. At any time, the Company’s tenants may experience a downturn in their business that may significantly weaken their financial condition. As a result, the Company’s tenants may delay a number of lease commencements, decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due, close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenants’ leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, lease terminations by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers under the terms of some leases. In that event, the Company may be unable to re-lease the vacated space at attractive rents or at all. The occurrence of any of the situations described above, particularly if it involves a substantial tenant with leases in multiple locations, could impact the Company’s performance. v) The Company may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. The Company cannot give assurance that any tenant that files for bankruptcy protection will continue to pay rent. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of the Company’s tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by the Company to collect pre- 23 Table of Contents bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the lease guarantor, or their property, unless the Company receives an order permitting it to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay the Company’s efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to the Company in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, the Company would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim the Company holds may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws which limit the amount of the claim the Company can make if a lease is rejected. As a result, it is likely that the Company will recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims it holds. vi) Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore the Company may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms. Real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly. In addition, the federal tax code imposes restrictions on a REIT’s ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, the Company may not be able to vary its portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms. vii) We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this may create risks. We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategies. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover their costs of acquisition or development and operations. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention. Acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in poorer than anticipated performance. We may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated. Furthermore, our acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware at the time of acquisition. In addition, development of our existing properties presents similar risks. viii) There is a lack of operating history with respect to our recent acquisitions and development of properties and we may not succeed in the integration or management of additional properties. These properties may not have characteristics or deficiencies currently unknown to us that affect their value or revenue potential. It is also possible that the operating performance of these properties may decline under our management. As we acquire additional properties, we will be subject to risks associated with managing new properties, including lease-up and tenant retention. In addition, our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to successfully integrate our new acquisitions into our existing management structure. We may not succeed with this integration or effectively manage additional properties. Also, newly acquired properties may not perform as expected. ix) The Company does not have exclusive control over its joint venture investments, so the Company is unable to ensure that its objectives will be pursued. The Company has invested in some cases as a co-venturer or partner in properties, instead of owning directly. These investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned ownership structure. In these investments, the Company does not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of these investments. As a result, the co-venturer or partner might have interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company’s interests or goals, take action contrary to the Company’s interests or otherwise impede the Company’s objectives. The co-venturer or partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt. x) We have significant international operations that carry additional risks. 24 Table of Contents We invest in, and conduct, operations outside the United States. The inherent risks that we face in international business operations include, but are not limited to: • currency risks, including currency fluctuations; • unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements; • potential adverse tax burdens; • burdens of complying with different permitting standards, labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws; • obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash; • regional, national and local political uncertainty; • economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and • reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries. Each of these risks might impact our cash flow or impair our ability to borrow funds, which ultimately could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. xi) The Company’s financial covenants may restrict its operating and acquisition activities. The Company’s revolving credit facilities and the indentures under which the Company’s senior unsecured debt is issued contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on the Company’s ability to incur secured and unsecured debt, make dividend payments, sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict the Company’s ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions. In addition, failure to meet any of the financial covenants could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of the Company’s indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. xii) The Company may be subject to environmental regulations. Under various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations, the Company may be considered an owner or operator of real property and may be responsible for paying for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances released on or in the Company’s property, as well as certain other potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or not the Company knew about, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. xiii) The Company’s ability to lease or develop properties is subject to competitive pressures. The Company faces competition in the acquisition, development, operation and sale of real property from individuals and businesses who own real estate, fiduciary accounts and plans and other entities engaged in real estate investment. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources than the Company does. This results in competition for the acquisition of properties, for tenants who lease or consider leasing space in the Company’s existing and subsequently acquired properties and for other real estate investment opportunities. xiv) Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities depends on various market conditions, which may change from time-to-time. Among the market conditions that may affect the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities are the following: • the extent of institutional investor interest in the Company; 25 Table of Contents • the reputation of REITs generally and the reputation of REITs with portfolios similar to the Company’s; • the attractiveness of the securities of REITs in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); • the Company’s financial condition and performance; • the market’s perception of the Company’s growth potential and potential future cash dividends; • an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for the Company’s shares; and • general economic and financial market conditions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 