ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section summarizes certain risks, among others, that should be considered by stockholders and prospective investors in the Company. Many of these risks are also discussed in other sections of this report. Medicare Reimbursement Reductions. In the last quarter of 2003, Congress enacted the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “MMA”). The MMA reduced Medicare reimbursement levels for a variety of the Company’s products and services, with some reductions beginning in 2004 and others beginning in 2005. On February 8, 2006, the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA”) was signed into law. The DRA reduced the reimbursement of certain products provided by the Company. See “Business — Revenues.” These reductions have had and will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, net income, cash flows and capital resources. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Trends, Events and Uncertainties – Reimbursement Changes and the Company’s Response.” Dependence on Reimbursement by Third-Party Payors. For the year ended December 31, 2005 the percentage of the Company’s revenues derived from Medicare, Medicaid and private pay was 52%, 9% and 39%, respectively. The revenues and profitability of the Company may be impacted by the efforts of payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by delaying payments, lowering reimbursement rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services, and negotiating reduced contract pricing. Reductions in reimbursement levels under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and net income. Additional Medicare reimbursement reductions have been proposed by the Bush administration that would have a substantial and material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, net income, cash flows and capital resources. Changes in the mix of the Company’s patients among Medicare, Medicaid and private pay categories and among different types of private pay sources may also affect the Company’s revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to maintain its current payor mix, revenue mix, or reimbursement levels, a change in which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, net income, cash flows and capital resources. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Substantial Leverage. The Company maintains a significant amount of debt. The secured claim of the Lenders as of December 31, 2005 was $250.0 million. The unsecured claim of the warrant holders as of December 31, 2005 was approximately $0.8 million. Required payments to the Lenders are detailed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Liquidity and 24 Table of Contents Capital Resources.” Due to the amount of debt, a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow from operations will be dedicated to servicing debt. The substantial leverage could adversely affect the Company’s ability to grow its business or to withstand adverse economic conditions, reimbursement changes or competitive pressures and the inability to pay or refinance debt when due would have a material adverse effect on the Company. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Bankruptcy Appeal. On July 31, 2002, American HomePatient, Inc. and 24 of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Filing”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Tennessee (the “Bankruptcy Court”). On July 1, 2003, American HomePatient, Inc. emerged from bankruptcy pursuant to a “100% pay plan” (the “Approved Plan”) whereby the Company’s shareholders retained their equity interest and all of the Company’s creditors and vendors will be paid 100% of all amounts they are owed, either immediately or over time with interest. The Lenders filed an appeal to the order confirming the Approved Plan with the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. On August 16, 2005, the Court of Appeals affirmed the rulings of the United States Bankruptcy Court and the United States District Court, approving the Company’s plan of reorganization. On September 13, 2005, the Lenders filed a petition for en banc rehearing with the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which was subsequently denied. The Lenders have until May 2, 2006 to file a petition for writ of certiorari to request the United States Supreme Court to consider their appeal. If the decisions of the lower courts were to be reversed, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company. See “Business – Legal Proceedings.” Warrant Rejection Appeal. The Bankruptcy Court issued an opinion ruling in favor of the Company’s request to reject warrants originally issued to the Company’s Lenders to purchase 3,265,315 shares of the Company’s common stock for $.01 per share. As a result of the ruling, the warrants, which represented approximately 20% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, were rejected by the Company. The Bankruptcy Court determined the damages stemming from rejection of the warrants were $846,000, which is payable by the Company to the warrant holders as an unsecured debt and is included in other accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheets. The warrant holders appealed the damages calculation determined in this ruling. On July 11, 2005, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the ruling by the Bankruptcy Court and the United States District Court in favor of the Company’s request to reject the warrants and the determination of the damages resulting from the rejection. On July 25, 2005, the warrant holders filed a petition for en banc rehearing with the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit which petition was rejected by the Court of Appeals on October 3, 2005. On January 3, 2006, the warrant holders filed a petition for writ of certiorari to request the United States Supreme Court to consider their appeal. The Supreme Court’s docket reflects the writ will be considered on March 17, 2006. If the decisions of the lower courts were to be reversed, the amount owed to the warrant holders could substantially increase which could materially adversely affect the Company’s cash flow and results from operations. See “Business – Legal Proceedings.” 25 Table of Contents Government Regulation. The Company is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local regulation. In addition, new laws and regulations are adopted periodically to regulate products and services in the health care industry. Changes in laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations can have a dramatic effect on operating methods, costs and reimbursement amounts provided by government, and other third-party payors. There can be no assurance that the Company is in compliance with all applicable existing laws and regulations or that the Company will be able to comply with any new laws or regulations that may be enacted in the future. Changes in applicable laws, any failure by the Company to comply with existing or future laws, regulations or standards, or discovery of past regulatory noncompliance by the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, financial condition, business, or prospects. See “Business – Government Regulation.” Expense Reduction. Because of reimbursement reductions, the Company must continue to find ways to grow revenues and reduce expenses in order to generate earnings and cash flow. The Company has been and is implementing a number of expense reduction initiatives in response to the DRA and other prior legislation resulting in reimbursement reductions. Further, reimbursement reductions proposed in the Bush administration’s proposed federal budget for 2007, if enacted, would require the Company to alter significantly its business model and cost structure, as well as the services it provides to patients, in order to avoid substantial losses. Measures undertaken to reduce expenses by improving efficiency can have an unintended negative impact on revenues, referrals, billing, collection and other aspects of the Company’s business, any of which can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, financial condition, business, or prospects. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Collectibility of Accounts Receivable. The Company has substantial accounts receivable as evidenced by DSO of 61 days as of December 31, 2005. No assurances can be given that future bad debt expense will not increase above current operating levels as a result of difficulties associated with the Company’s billing activities and meeting payor documentation requirements and claim submission deadlines. Increased bad debt expense or delays in collecting accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect on cash flows and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Revenue Recognition and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.” Health Care Initiatives. The health care industry continues to undergo dramatic changes influenced in large part by federal legislative initiatives. It is likely new federal health care initiatives will continue to arise. The MMA has had a material negative impact on the level of reimbursement, and the DRA will have a material negative impact on the level of reimbursement beginning in 2007. Additionally, the Bush administration is proposing additional reductions beginning in 2007. There can be no assurance that these or other federal legislative and regulatory initiatives will not be adopted in the future. One or more of these initiatives could materially limit patient access to, or the Company’s reimbursement for, products and services provided by the Company. Some states are adopting health care programs and initiatives as a replacement for Medicaid. There can be no assurance that the adoption of such legislation or 26 Table of Contents other changes in the administration or interpretation of government health care programs or initiatives will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business - Revenues.” Role of Managed Care. As managed care plays a significant role in markets in which the Company operates, the Company’s success will, in part, depend on retaining and obtaining profitable managed care contracts. There can be no assurance that the Company will retain or obtain such managed care contracts. In addition, reimbursement rates under managed care contracts are likely to continue to experience downward pressure as a result of payors’ efforts to contain or reduce the costs of health care by increasing case management review of services, by increasing retrospective payment audits, and by negotiating reduced contract pricing. Therefore, even if the Company is successful in retaining and obtaining managed care contracts, it will experience declining profitability unless the Company also decreases its cost for providing services and increases higher margin services. Liquidity. Trading of the Company’s common stock under its current trading symbol, AHOM, is conducted on the over-the-counter bulletin board which may limit the Company’s ability to raise additional capital and the ability of shareholders to sell their shares. HIPAA Compliance. HIPAA Administrative Simplification requires all entities engaged in certain electronic transactions to meet specific standards to ensure the confidentiality and security of individually identifiable health information. In addition, HIPAA mandates the standardization of various types of electronic transactions and the codes and identifiers used for these transactions. While the Company has implemented all standards issued to date and is on schedule to comply with newly-issued standards for the National Provider Identifier, there are some state Medicaid programs that are not fully compliant with the electronic transaction standards due to state budgetary concerns or changes to the intermediary contracted by the state to process claims submitted by the providers. Some states have renewed processing claims; however, there has been a delay in cash collections by the Company as these states address the processing of backlog claims. There can be no assurance that these delays will not continue. On February 16, 2006, the Department of Health and Human Services published the final rule relative to the enforcement of the HIPAA Administrative Simplification standards. Entities found to be in violation of an Administrative Simplification provision may be subject to a civil money penalty of not more than $100 for each violation or not more than $25,000 for identical violations during a calendar year. Prior to the imposition of a penalty, however, the Secretary will seek the cooperation of the entity in obtaining compliance and may provide technical assistance to help the entity comply voluntarily with the applicable Administrative Simplification provisions. Ability to Attract and Retain Management. The Company is highly dependent upon its senior management, and competition for qualified management personnel is intense. The Company’s historical financial results and reimbursement environment, among other factors, may limit the Company’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, which in turn could adversely affect profitability. 27 Table of Contents Competition. The home health care market is highly fragmented and competition varies significantly from market to market. In the small and mid-size markets in which the Company primarily operates, the majority of its competition comes from local independent operators or hospital-based facilities whose primary competitive advantage is market familiarity. There are relatively few barriers to entry in the local markets served by the Company, and it could encounter competition from new market entrants. In the larger markets, regional and national providers account for a significant portion of competition. Some of the Company’s present and potential competitors are significantly larger than the Company and have, or may obtain, greater financial and marketing resources than the Company. Liability and Adequacy of Insurance. The provision of healthcare services entails an inherent risk of liability. Certain participants in the home healthcare industry may be subject to lawsuits that may involve large claims and significant defense costs. It is expected that the Company periodically will be subject to such suits as a result of the nature of its business. The Company currently maintains product and professional liability insurance intended to cover such claims in amounts which management believes are in keeping with industry standards. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain liability insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. There can be no assurance that claims in excess of the Company’s insurance coverage will not arise. A successful claim against the Company in excess of the Company’s insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect upon the operations, financial condition or prospects of the Company. Claims against the Company, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, may also have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s ability to attract patients or to expand its business. In addition, the Company maintains a large deductible for its workers’ compensation insurance. The Company is self-insured for its employee health insurance and is at risk for claims up to individual stop loss and aggregate stop loss amounts. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED COMMENTS None. 