Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements. Statements in this Annual Report that are not strictly historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and 11 Table of Contents Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements include statements about our future operating results, strategic relationships and product development. You can identify these forward-looking statements because they involve our expectations, beliefs, projections, anticipations or other characterizations of future events or circumstances. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ significantly from results discussed in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, our extremely limited operations, the uncertainties of clinical trial results and product development, our dependence on third parties for licensing and other revenue, our dependence on determinations of regulatory authorities, and the risks of technological change and competition. Set forth below is a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in such forward looking statements. We have limited staff, infrastructure and operations. Since January 2000, we have operated with minimal staff and infrastructure. We have no full-time employees and our activities, conducted through our part-time President and Director of Finance, are primarily directed toward managing our investment in the Colloral LLC joint venture, supporting our current licensees and exploring additional opportunities to license our technology to additional companies that desire to develop, manufacture and sell products based upon our technology. The pharmaceutical products being developed by our licensees are in or will undergo clinical trials and regulatory review, and there can be no assurance that the results from these trials will be favorable or that the products will be successfully marketed by our licensees. We have not completed the development of any product except the dietary supplement marketed under the trade names Colloral®, The Collagen Solution and Vital 3. The pharmaceutical products being developed by us and our licensees require significant additional clinical testing and/or investment prior to commercialization. Products for therapeutic use in human health care must be evaluated in extensive human clinical trials to determine their safety and efficacy as part of a lengthy process to obtain government approval. Positive results for a product in a clinical trial do not necessarily assure that future clinical trials will yield positive results or that the government will approve the commercialization of the product. Clinical trials may be terminated at any time for many reasons, including toxicity or a lack of efficacy based upon mid-trial examinations of clinical trial data or adverse event reporting. There can be no assurance that either we or our licensees will successfully develop additional products or that our products will prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, receive required regulatory approvals, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs or be successfully marketed. We have accumulated significant net losses, and there can be no assurance that we will be able achieve profitable operations in the future. From our inception in 1988 through December 31, 2008, we have accumulated net losses of $110,102,000. We may continue to incur additional losses as we pursue opportunities to license and otherwise exploit our technology. Our ability to achieve profitable operations depends in part on successful completion of the development by us and others of products utilizing our technology, the ability to obtain any required regulatory approvals and the ability to manufacture and market these products and increase sales of our dietary supplement by Colloral LLC. There can be no assurance that we will achieve profitable operations at any time. Most of our revenues to date have been earned in connection with collaborative and licensing agreements and the granting of short term rights. See “Dependence on Collaborative Agreements” below. Payments to us under these arrangements generally depend upon royalties based upon sales of products, the achievement of certain milestones or the satisfaction of other conditions. For example, we granted certain patent rights to Teva in return for future payments based upon the achievement of certain milestones and royalties based on sales, if any, and we entered into our agreement with BioMS which provides for the payment of royalties based on sales of a product, if any. To date, there have been no sales under either of these arrangements, and on March 20, 2006, 12 Table of Contents Teva disclosed in its 20-F filing that it will not continue development of the enteric coated oral version of its product Copaxone, it had been developing using our intellectual property. While the filing states Teva is considering future development of non-parenteral formulations of oral Copaxone, it is unclear whether any such future development would involve intellectual property licensed by us to Teva. Because revenues under these agreements are contingent upon the achievement of certain conditions, there can be no assurance that we will derive any additional revenues from these agreements. In August 2002, we entered into our joint venture with Deseret by forming Colloral LLC to manufacture, market and sell Colloral® as a dietary supplement. Our interest in Colloral LLC is greater than 50% and we actively participate in its management, but we do not have voting control of Colloral LLC. Therefore, the investment had historically been accounted for using the equity method. In August 2005, we amended the Colloral LLC operating agreement to increase our share of distributions and allocations of profits and losses in return for our commitment to fund 100% of the costs associated with the implementation of a marketing program for The Collagen Solution. In accordance with the amendment to the Colloral LLC operating agreement, we made additional capital contributions of $1,032,000 to Colloral LLC from 2003 through 2007. We satisfied our funding commitment in 2006 and have made no capital contributions during the year ended December 31, 2008. We may make additional contributions to Colloral LLC in the future. There can be no assurance that the sales and marketing initiatives for Colloral LLC that have been or, in the future, may be funded by our capital contributions will be successful. Accordingly, in the future we may again incur substantial losses. We may be unable to market Colloral as a dietary supplement and may be subject to significant additional regulatory requirements if the FDA determines that Colloral is a drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. In 2000, we completed a market analysis of Colloral as a dietary supplement and subsequently filed a “Notice of New Dietary Ingredient” with the FDA that was accepted without comment On February 18, 2005, we received a letter from the FDA stating that the FDA had concluded that Colloral is not a dietary supplement but appears to be a drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and thus subject to the regulatory requirements for drugs. On April 15, 2005, we submitted a response to the FDA’s letter and hope to have demonstrated that the product meets the statutory definition of a dietary supplement. It is possible that Colloral LLC and its distributors will be unable to market the product as a dietary supplement, and that the product will be subject to the regulatory requirements for drugs. If the FDA makes a final determination that requires us to comply with the regulatory requirements for drugs, Colloral, The Collagen Solution and Vital 3 will be withdrawn from the market, which would eliminate the possibility of future distributions to us from Colloral LLC. We may not be able to raise additional capital or access required financing to fund our long-term operations. Since inception, we have raised net proceeds of approximately $116 million from the sale of equity securities in private placements and public stock offerings. We do not believe we currently have the ability to raise significant additional funds. Based upon our budget for calendar year 2009, we believe that current cash and marketable securities and the interest earned from the investment thereof will be sufficient to meet our operating expenses and capital requirements for at least five years. Thereafter, or if our operations change substantially, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations, including clinical trials and commercialization efforts. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We are wholly dependent on collaborative agreements to develop and market our products and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be successful or that we will be able to enter into future agreements. Currently, we are wholly dependent upon collaborative agreements or arrangements with others. We have granted Teva exclusive worldwide rights to certain of our patents covering the multiple sclerosis and myasthenia 13 Table of Contents gravis applications of our technology. These rights were granted in return for payments based upon the achievement of certain milestones and royalties based on sales, if any. On March 20, 2006, Teva disclosed in its 20-F filing that it will not continue development of the enteric coated oral version of its product Copaxone, it had been developing using our intellectual property, but is considering future development of non-parenteral formulations of oral Copaxone. It is unclear whether any such future development would involve intellectual property licensed by us to Teva. We also have granted BioMS exclusive worldwide rights to certain patents covering a product to treat multiple sclerosis. The agreement with BioMS provides for monthly diligence payments and royalties based on sales, if any. Obligations to make diligence payments will cease if BioMS terminates the agreement. BioMS sub-licensed these patents to Eli Lilly, but there is no assurance Eli Lilly will be successful in its efforts to commercialize this technology. We entered into a joint venture with Deseret by forming Colloral LLC to manufacture, market and sell Colloral as a dietary supplement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate other acceptable arrangements in the future or that any of our current or future collaborative agreements or arrangements will be successful. The majority of our basic research to date has been done through agreements with The Brigham and Women’s Hospital and other medical research institutions. Between 1993 and 1999, we conducted some of our research and most of our development activities internally. Currently, we have no employees engaged in research and product development and we are not sponsoring a research program in any institution. If we were to re-initiate a research program, we expect to be dependent upon our ability to have research performed under contract with The Brigham and Women’s Hospital. If we are unable to maintain this relationship, we would be adversely affected and our ability to commercialize future products may be delayed or eliminated. Our patents and proprietary rights may not provide sufficient protection, and patents of other companies could prevent us from developing and marketing our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate or enable others to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties or having third parties circumvent our rights. We have received or have exclusive rights to 201 U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications. We are actively pursuing three foreign patent applications, and are an assignee or licensee of the rights to other patent applications. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. For example, the emerging policy of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the U.S. federal courts appears to favor narrowing claims in biotechnology patents. Thus, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by any third parties, that the patents of others will not impede our ability to do business or that third parties will not be able to circumvent our patents, that our licensees will not terminate their licenses or that they will be successful in producing and marketing products that trigger the payment of royalties to us, or that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not develop independently similar products, duplicate any of our products, or those of our licensees, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented products developed by us. Both we and our licensees may be required or may desire to obtain licenses from third parties to avoid infringing patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties or to avoid third party patents blocking the activities of our licensees. No assurance can be given that any license required or desired under any such patents or proprietary rights would be available, if at all, on terms acceptable to us or to our licensees. If we or our licensees do not obtain such licenses, we or our licensees could encounter delays in product introductions, or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be prohibited. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending our self in suits for patent infringement brought against us or a licensee of ours or in filing suits against others to have their patents declared invalid. Much of our know-how and technology may not be patentable. To protect our rights, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other 14 Table of Contents proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, our business and that of our licensees may be adversely affected by competitors who independently develop competing technologies, especially if we obtain no, or only narrow, patent protection. Many of our competitors have significantly greater experience and financial and technological resources than do we. The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and dietary supplement industries are subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, dietary supplement firms, universities and other research institutions in the United States and abroad. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not develop technologies and products that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than we have. In addition, most of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical products and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products for use in health care. Accordingly, our competitors may obtain FDA approval for products more rapidly than we do. We currently have no internal research and development activities or capabilities. We rely upon sponsored research with The Brigham and Women’s Hospital for our research and development activities. Since June 30, 2004 there has been no funding provided to The Brigham and Women’s Hospital under our agreement for sponsored research, however, we continue to evaluate new methods that may facilitate the clinical development of products based upon mucosal tolerance. It may take many years and substantial expenditures of resources to obtain approval from the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies to market pharmaceutical products utilizing our technology. Prior to marketing, any pharmaceutical product utilizing our technology must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. These processes can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to receive product royalties. There can be no assurance that the clearances and approvals necessary for the clinical testing or manufacturing and marketing of these products can be obtained. Existing or additional government regulation could prevent or delay regulatory approval of these products or affect the pricing or marketing of these products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 