Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ significantly from results discussed in the forward-looking statements due to a number of important factors, including, but not limited to our extremely limited operations, the uncertainties of clinical trial results and product development, our dependence on third parties for licensing and other revenue, our dependence on determinations of regulatory authorities, and the risks of technological change and competition. Set forth below is a discussion of certain factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results projected in such forward looking statements. Limited Operations. Since January 2000, we have operated with minimal staff and infrastructure. We have no full-time employees and our activities, conducted through our part-time President and Director of Finance, are primarily directed toward managing our investment in the Colloral LLC joint venture, supporting our current licensees and exploring additional opportunities to license our technology to additional companies that desire to develop, manufacture and sell products based upon our technology. Developmental Stage of AutoImmune’s and its Licensees’ Products. We have not completed the development of any product except Colloral® and The Collagen Solution. The pharmaceutical products being developed by us and our licensees require significant additional clinical testing and/or investment prior to commercialization. Products for therapeutic use in human health care must be evaluated in extensive human clinical trials to determine their safety and efficacy as part of a lengthy process to obtain government approval. Positive results for a product in a clinical trial do not necessarily assure that future clinical trials will yield positive results or that the government will approve the commercialization of the product. Clinical trials may be terminated at any time for many reasons, including toxicity or a lack of efficacy based upon mid-trial examinations of clinical trial data or adverse event reporting. There can be no assurance that either we or our licensees will successfully develop additional products or that our products will prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, receive required regulatory approvals, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable costs or be successfully marketed. 13 Table of Contents Lack of Product Revenues. From our inception in 1988 through December 31, 2005, we have accumulated net losses of $109,158,000. We expect to incur additional losses as we continue to sponsor research and to pursue opportunities to license and otherwise exploit our technology. Our ability to achieve profitable operations depends in part on successful completion of the development by us and others of products utilizing our technology, the ability to obtain any required regulatory approvals and the ability to manufacture and market these products. There can be no assurance that we will achieve profitable operations at any time. Our revenues to date have been earned in connection with collaborative/licensing agreements and the granting of short term rights (see “Dependence on Collaborative Agreements” below). Payments to us under these arrangements generally depend upon royalties based upon sales of products, the achievement of certain milestones or the satisfaction of other conditions. For example, we granted certain patent rights to Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. in return for future payments based upon the achievement of certain milestones and royalties based on sales, if any, and we entered into an agreement with BioMS Medical Corporation which provides for the payment of royalties based on sales of a product, if any. To date, there have been no sales under either of these arrangements, and on March 20, 2006, Teva disclosed in its 20-F filing that it will not continue development of the product it had been developing using our intellectual property. While the filing states Teva is considering future development of non-parenteral formulations of such product, it is unclear whether any such future development would involve intellectual property licensed by us to Teva. Because revenues under these agreements are contingent upon the achievement of certain conditions, there can be no assurance that we will derive any additional revenues from these agreements. In August 2002, we entered into a joint venture with Deseret Laboratories, Inc. by forming an entity called Colloral LLC to manufacture, market and sell Colloral® as a dietary supplement. Our interest in Colloral LLC is greater than 50% and we actively participate in its management, but we do not have voting control of Colloral LLC. Therefore, the investment had historically been accounted for using the equity method. In August 2005, we amended the Colloral LLC operating agreement to increase our share of fund distributions and allocations of profits and losses in return for our commitment to fund 100% of the costs associated with the implementation of a marketing program for The Collagen Solution undertaken by Colloral LLC. As a result of the amendments to the operating agreement, we are now required to consolidate Colloral LLC in accordance with FIN 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities” effective in the third quarter of 2005. Colloral LLC is now considered a variable interest entity (“VIE”) under FIN 46, of which we are the primary beneficiary. In accordance with FIN 46, certain events could arise in the future including additional modifications to the operating agreements, lapse of our commitment to fund 100% of Colloral LLC’s losses associated with the marketing program for The Collagen Solution, and other factors may require us to re-evaluate the joint venture under FIN 46 in the future. Such re-evaluation may result in a conclusion that the joint venture is no longer a VIE requiring consolidation. In the fourth quarter of 2004, Colloral LLC contracted with Business Development Resources, Inc. for the development of a consumer oriented marketing plan. Colloral LLC has begun implementing this plan and full implementation will require substantial additional contributions to the joint venture. Despite any additional investment, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Accordingly, we may continue to incur substantial losses. In 2003, 2004, and 2005, AutoImmune made additional capital contributions of $25,000, $100,000, and $407,000, respectively, to Colloral LLC to support sales and marketing initiatives. Our financial statements reflect transactions with Colloral LLC on a consolidated basis beginning in the third quarter of 2005. Colloral May Be Classified as a Drug Rather Than a Nutritional Supplement. In 2000, we completed a market analysis of Colloral as a nutritional supplement and subsequently filed a “Notice of New Dietary Ingredient” with the FDA that was accepted without comment On February 18, 2005, we received a letter from the FDA stating that the FDA has concluded that Colloral is not a dietary supplement but appears to be a drug under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, and thus subject to the regulatory requirements for drugs. On April 15, 2005, we submitted a response to the FDA’s letter and hope to have demonstrated that both Colloral and The Collagen Solution meet the statutory definition of a dietary supplement. It is possible that Colloral LLC 14 Table of Contents will be unable to market Colloral or The Collagen Solution as dietary supplements, and that they will be subject to the regulatory requirements for drugs. If the FDA makes a final determination that requires us to comply with the regulatory requirements for drugs, Colloral and The Collagen Solution will be withdrawn from the market, which would eliminate the possibility of future distributions to us from Colloral LLC. Additional Financing Requirements and Access to Capital. Since inception, we have raised net proceeds of approximately $116 million from the sale of equity securities in private placements and public stock offerings. We do not believe we currently have the ability to raise significant additional funds. Based upon our budget for calendar year 2006, we believe that current cash and marketable securities and the interest earned from the investment thereof will be sufficient to meet our operating expenses and capital requirements for at least five years. Thereafter, or if our operations change substantially, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to fund our operations, including clinical trials and commercialization efforts. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Dependence on Collaborative Agreements. Currently, we are wholly dependent upon collaborative agreements or arrangements with others. We have granted Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd. exclusive worldwide rights to certain of our patents covering the multiple sclerosis and myasthenia gravis applications of our technology. These rights were granted in return for payments based upon the achievement of certain milestones and royalties based on sales, if any. On March 20, 2006, Teva disclosed in its 20-F filing that it will not continue development of the product it had been developing using our intellectual property, but is considering future development of non-parenteral formulations of the product. It is unclear whether any such future development would involve intellectual property licensed by us to Teva. We also have granted BioMS Medical Corporation exclusive worldwide rights to certain patents covering a product to treat multiple sclerosis. The agreement with BioMS provides for monthly diligence payments and royalties based on sales, if any. Obligations to make diligence payments will cease if BioMS terminates the agreement. Most recently, we entered into a joint venture with Deseret Laboratories, Inc. by forming Colloral LLC to manufacture, market and sell Colloral as a nutraceutical. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate other acceptable arrangements in the future or that any of our current or future collaborative agreements or arrangements will be successful. The majority of our basic research to date has been done through agreements with The Brigham and Women’s Hospital and other medical research institutions. Between 1993 and 1999, we conducted some of our research and most of our development activities internally. Currently, we have no employees engaged in research and product development. Therefore, we expect to continue to be dependent upon research performed under contract with The Brigham and Women’s Hospital. If we are unable to maintain this relationship, we would be adversely affected and our ability to commercialize future products may be delayed or eliminated. Patents and Proprietary Rights. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate or enable others to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties or having third parties circumvent our rights. We have received or have exclusive rights to 187 U.S. and foreign patents. We have filed and are actively pursuing numerous applications for additional U.S. and foreign patents, and are an assignee or licensee of the rights to other patent applications. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. For example, the emerging policy of the United States Patent Office and the federal courts appears to favor narrowing claims in biotechnology patents. Thus, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by any third parties, that the patents of others will not impede our ability to do business or that third parties will not be able to circumvent our patents, that our licensees will not terminate their licenses or that they will be successful in producing and marketing products that trigger the payment of royalties to us, or that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not develop independently similar products, duplicate any of our products, or those of our licensees, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented products developed by us. 15 Table of Contents Both we and our licensees may be required or may desire to obtain licenses from third parties to avoid infringing patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties or to avoid third party patents blocking the activities of our licensees. No assurance can be given that any license required or desired under any such patents or proprietary rights would be available, if at all, on terms acceptable to us or to our licensees. If we or our licensees do not obtain such licenses, we or our licensees could encounter delays in product introductions, or could find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be prohibited. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourself in suits for patent infringement brought against us or a licensee of ours or in filing suits against others to have their patents declared invalid. Much of our know-how and technology may not be patentable. To protect our rights, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, our business and that of our licensees may be adversely affected by competitors who independently develop competing technologies, especially if we obtain no, or only narrow, patent protection. Technological Change and Competition. The biotechnology, pharmaceutical and dietary supplement industries are subject to rapid and significant technological change. Our competitors are numerous and include, among others, major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology firms, dietary supplement firms, universities and other research institutions in the United States and abroad. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not develop technologies and products that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Most of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources and production and marketing capabilities than we have. In addition, most of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we do in conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials of pharmaceutical products and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of products for use in health care. Accordingly, our competitors may obtain FDA approval for products more rapidly than we do. We currently have no internal research and development activities or capabilities. We rely upon sponsored research with The Brigham and Women’s Hospital for our research and development activities. Since June 30, 2004 there has been no funding provided to BWH under our agreement for sponsored research. It is currently anticipated that research funding will be reinitiated in 2006. Government Regulation. Prior to marketing, any pharmaceutical product utilizing our technology must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as an extensive regulatory approval process mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies. These processes can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals would adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to receive product royalties. There can be no assurance that the clearances and approvals necessary for the clinical testing or manufacturing and marketing of these products can be obtained. Existing or additional government regulation could prevent or delay regulatory approval of these products or affect the pricing or marketing of these products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 