Risk Factors Set forth below are the material risks associated with the purchase and ownership of the Company’s equity and debt securities. As an owner of real estate, the Company is subject to certain business risks arising in connection with the underlying real estate, including, among other factors, including the following: i) Loss of the Company’s tax status as a real estate investment trust would have significant adverse consequences to the Company and the value of its securities. The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code commencing with our taxable year beginning January 1, 1992. The Company currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT and believe that the Company’s current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Code to enable us to qualify as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company’s control may affect the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of the Company’s gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and the Company must satisfy a number of requirements regarding the composition of the Company’s assets. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of the Company’s net taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative 9 Back to Contents interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT, the federal income tax consequences of such qualification or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. Although the Company believes that it is organized and has operated in such a manner, the Company can give no assurance that it has qualified or will continue to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes. If the Company loses its REIT status, it will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payment of principal and interest on the debt securities the Company issues and to pay dividends to Company stockholders. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT: • the Company would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing its taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • the Company also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless the Company was entitled to relief under statutory provisions, it could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which the Company were disqualified. In addition, if the Company fails to qualify as a REIT, it would not be required to make distributions to stockholders. As a result of all these factors, the Company’s failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of the Company’s securities. ii) Adverse market conditions and competition may impede the Company’s ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain properties. The economic performance and value of the Company’s properties are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and operating real estate including: • changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; • local conditions, including an oversupply of space in properties like those that the Company owns, or a reduction in demand for properties like those that the Company owns; • the attractiveness of the Company’s properties to tenants; • the ability of tenants to pay rent; • competition from other available properties; • changes in market rental rates; • the need to periodically pay for costs to repair, renovate and re-let space; • changes in operating costs, including costs for maintenance, insurance and real estate taxes; • the fact that the expenses of owning and operating properties are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the properties; and • changes in laws and governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment and taxes. iii) Downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct impact on the Company’s performance. The Company’s properties consist primarily of community and neighborhood shopping centers and other retail properties. The Company’s performance therefore is linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space generally. The market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets, and increasing consumer purchases through catalogues and the internet. To the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space. 10 Back to Contents iv) Failure by any anchor tenant with leases in multiple locations to make rental payments to the Compnay, because of a deterioration of its financial condition or otherwise, could impact the Company’s performance. The Company’s performance depends on its ability to collect rent from tenants. At any time, the Company’s tenants may experience a downturn in their business that may significantly weaken their financial condition. As a result, the Company’s tenants may delay a number of lease commencements, decline to extend or renew leases upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due, close stores or declare bankruptcy. Any of these actions could result in the termination of the tenant’s leases and the loss of rental income attributable to the terminated leases. In addition, lease terminations by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping centers under the terms of some leases. In that event, the Company may be unable to re-lease the vacated space at attractive rents or at all. The occurrence of any of the situations described above, particularly if it involves a substantial tenant with leases in multiple locations, could impact the Company’s performance. v) The Company may be unable to collect balances due from any tenants in bankruptcy. The Company cannot give assurance that any tenant that files for bankruptcy protection will continue to pay rent. A bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of the Company’s tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by the Company to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the lease guarantor, or their property, unless the Company receives an order permitting it to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay the Company’s efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is assumed by the tenant in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to the Company in full. However, if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, the Company would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim the Company holds may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws which limit the amount of the claim the Company can make if a lease is rejected. As a result, it is likely that the Company will recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims it holds. vi) Real estate property investments are illiquid, and therefore the Company may not be able to dispose of properties when appropriate or on favorable terms. Real estate property investments generally cannot be disposed of quickly. In addition, the federal tax code imposes restrictions on a REIT’s ability to dispose of properties that are not applicable to other types of real estate companies. Therefore, the Company may not be able to vary its portfolio in response to economic or other conditions promptly or on favorable terms. vii) The Company does not have exclusive control over its joint venture investments, so the Company is unable to ensure that its objectives will be pursued. The Company has invested in some cases as a co-venturer or partner in properties, instead of owning directly. These investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned ownership structure. In these investments, the Company does not have exclusive control over the development, financing, leasing, management and other aspects of these investments. As a result, the co-venturer or partner might have interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company’s interests or goals, take action contrary to the Company’s interests or otherwise impede the Company’s objectives. The co-venturer or partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt. viii) The Company’s financial covenants may restrict its operating and acquisition activities. The Company’s revolving credit facilities and the indenture under which the Company’s senior unsecured debt is issued contain certain financial and operating covenants, including, among other things, certain coverage ratios, as well as limitations on the Company’s ability to incur secured and unsecured debt, make dividend payments, sell all or substantially all of the Company’s assets and engage in mergers and consolidations and certain acquisitions. These covenants may restrict the Company’s ability to pursue certain business initiatives or certain acquisition transactions. In addition, failure to meet any of the financial covenants could cause an event of default under and/or accelerate some or all of the Company’s indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. 11 Back to Contents ix) The Company may be subject to environmental regulations. Under various federal, state, and local laws, ordinances and regulations, the Company may be considered an owner or operator of real property and may be responsible for paying for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances released on or in the Company’s property, as well as certain other potential costs which could relate to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or not the Company knew about, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. x) The Company’s ability to lease or develop properties is subject to competitive pressures. The Company faces competition in the acquisition, development, operation and sale of real property from individuals and businesses who own real estate, fiduciary accounts and plans and other entities engaged in real estate investment. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources than we do. This results in competition for the acquisition of properties, for tenants who lease or consider leasing space in the Company’s existing and subsequently acquired properties and for other real estate investment opportunities. xi) Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities depends on various market conditions, which may change from time-to-time. Among the market conditions that may affect the market price of the Company’s publicly traded securities are the following: • the extent of institutional investor interest in the Company; • the reputation of REITs generally and the reputation of REITs with portfolios similar to the Company’s; • the attractiveness of the securities of REITs in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); • the Company’s financial condition and performance; • the market’s perception of the Company’s growth potential and potential future cash dividends; • an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for the Company’s shares; and • general economic and financial market conditions. Recent Developments Operating Properties - Acquisitions - During January 2005, the Company acquired a shopping center property located in Clearwater, FL, comprising approximately 0.2 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”), for a purchase price of approximately $17.7 million. During March 2005, the Company acquired the remaining 40% interest in a shopping center property located in Temple, TX, in which the Company had previously owned a 60% interest, for a purchase price of approximately $0.9 million. During June 2005, the Company transferred this property to a newly formed joint venture in which the Company now has a 20% non-controlling interest. Additionally, during March 2005, the Company acquired two operating properties, located in New York, NY, through newly formed joint ventures in which the Company holds 95% economic interests, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $11.6 million. Simultaneous with the closing, each property was encumbered with an individual non-recourse floating-rate mortgage aggregating approximately $9.1 million. These loans mature in April 2007 and bear interest at LIBOR plus 2% and LIBOR plus 2.25% (6.39% and 6.64%, respectively, at December 31, 2005). Based upon the provisions of FIN 46(R), the Company has determined 12 Back to Contents that these entities are variable interest entities (“VIE”). The Company has further determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of these VIEs and has therefore consolidated these entities for financial reporting purposes. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss associated with these entities is primarily limited to the Company’s aggregate capital investment, which was approximately $3.4 million at December 31, 2005. During April 2005, the Company acquired an operating property located in Poway, CA, comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA, for a purchase price of approximately $19.5 million. During June 2005, the Company acquired a portfolio of 45 operating properties, comprising approximately 0.3 million square feet of GLA, located in Virginia and Maryland, for a purchase price of approximately $85.3 million. During August 2005, the Company obtained approximately $65.0 million of crossed-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering all 45 operating properties. This mortgage debt matures in September 2015 and bears interest at a fixed-rate of 4.94% per annum. During September 2005, the entire portfolio of 45 properties and the associated debt was transferred to a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a 15% non-controlling interest. During 2005, the Company acquired ten self-storage facilities through an existing joint venture in which the Company held an approximate 93.5% economic interest, for a purchase price of approximately $39.9 million including the assumption of approximately $7.5 million of non-recourse fixed-rate mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties. Upon completing these acquisitions, the venture owned 17 self-storage facilities located in various states. The Company had cross-collateralized 14 of these properties with approximately $44.0 million of non-recourse floating-rate mortgage debt which was scheduled to mature in November 2007 and had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.75%. Based upon the provisions of FIN 46(R), the Company had determined that this entity was a VIE. The Company had further determined that the Company was the primary beneficiary of this VIE and had therefore consolidated this entity for financial reporting purposes. During November and December 2005, this entity disposed of, in separate transactions, four self-storage properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $18.6 million which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $5.8 million. Proceeds from these sales were used to pay down approximately $9.8 million of mortgage debt and provide distributions to the partners. As a result of these transactions the Company’s economic interest significantly decreased and the entity became subject to the reconsideration provisions of FIN 46(R). Based upon this reconsideration event and the provision of FIN 46(R), the Company has determined that this entity is no longer a VIE and has therefore deconsolidated this entity and will now account for this investment under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2005, this entity owned 13 self-storage properties. Three of the properties are encumbered by approximately $7.4 million of fixed-rate individual non-recourse mortgage debt which bears interest at 5.5% per annum and is scheduled to mature in June 2013. The remaining ten properties are cross-collateralized with approximately $33.3 million of variable-rate debt which bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.75% (7.09% at December 31, 2005) and is scheduled to mature in November 2007. The Company’s maximum exposure to loss associated with this entity is primarily limited to the Company’s carrying value of this investment, which was approximately $14.2 million at December 31, 2005. During October 2005, the Company acquired a portfolio of three operating properties located in southern California, comprising approximately 0.4 million aggregate square feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $104.5 million including the assumption of approximately $54.6 million of non-recourse mortgage debt. During December 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, two operating properties, located in New York, NY, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $7.2 million. The purchase of one of the properties was partially funded by a new $3.1 million non-recourse mortgage, which bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.87% per annum and matures in December 2015. During December 2005, the Company acquired a portfolio of eight net-leased operating properties, comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $17.1 million. Seven of these properties are located in the New York Metropolitan area, and one is located in Philadelphia, PA. During December 2005, the Company acquired from KROP the remaining 80% interest in an operating property comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA located in Columbia, MD, for a purchase price of approximately $23.6 million. Additionally, during December 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, four operating properties, located in Plano, TX, New London, NH, Staten Island, NY, and Santa Rosa, 13 Back to Contents CA, comprising of approximately 0.3 million aggregate square feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $46.9 million. FNC Realty Corporation - From 2000 through 2002 the Company acquired approximately $28.9 million face amount of Frank’s Nursery and Crafts, Inc. (“Frank’s”), 10.25% bonds for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $11.3 million. During February 2001, Frank’s filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. During May 2002, Frank’s plan of reorganization was confirmed by the Bankruptcy court and Frank’s emerged from bankruptcy. Pursuant to Frank’s reorganization plan, the Company received approximately 4.3 million shares of Frank’s common stock valued at $2.34 per share in settlement of its Frank’s bond investment. As a result of this conversion, the Company held an approximate 27% interest in Frank’s and began accounting for its investment on the equity method. In addition, the Company began providing loans to Frank’s under a revolving credit facility, which was collateralized by certain real estate interests of Frank’s. As an inducement to make these loans, Frank’s issued the Company approximately 4.4 million warrants with an exercise price of $1.15 per share. During September 2004, Frank’s again filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. The Company committed to provide Frank’s, in addition to its revolving credit facility, with $27.0 million of debtor-in-possession financing for a term of one year at an interest rate of Prime plus 1.00%. From the petition date until July 26, 2005, Frank’s operated its business as a debtor-in-possession and during this period had completely liquidated its inventory and ceased operating as a retailer. Frank’s plan of reorganization included a Company-sponsored re-capitalization plan in which the Company, along with several other significant shareholders, agreed to re-capitalize Frank’s with approximately $104.0 million in cash in exchange for debt and equity securities and convert Frank’s from a publicly held retail company to a privately held real estate company. On July 27, 2005, Frank’s emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy pursuant to a bankruptcy court approved plan of reorganization as FNC Realty Corporation (“FNC”). Pursuant to the reorganization plan, shareholders of Frank’s were offered cash of $0.75 per share or the right to exchange Frank’s common stock for FNC common stock on a 1:1 basis. FNC’s capitalization included the issuance of approximately $27.0 million of common stock and $77.0 million of fixed-rate 7% convertible senior notes. The notes mature in July 2008 and may be converted at anytime by the holder for common shares of FNC at $0.75 per share. Proceeds from the issuance of common stock and convertible senior notes were used to repay all claims pursuant to the plan of reorganization, including amounts owed to the Company under its revolving credit facility and debtor-in-possession financing agreement. Pursuant to the plan of reorganization, the Company received common shares of FNC representing an approximate 27% ownership interest in exchange for its interests in Frank’s. In addition, the Company acquired an additional 24.5% interest in the common shares of FNC for cash of approximately $17 million, thereby increasing the Company’s ownership interest to approximately 51%. This acquisition of additional shares includes the exercise of warrants previously issued by Frank’s to the Company. The Company also acquired approximately $42 million of fixed-rate 7% convertible senior notes issued by FNC. As a result of the increase in ownership interest from 27% to 51%, the Company became the controlling shareholder and therefore, commenced consolidation of FNC effective July 27, 2005. As of July 27, 2005, FNC held interests in 55 properties with approximately $16.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 16 of the properties. These loans bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.00% - 7.75% and maturity dates ranging from June 2012 through June 2022. During December 2005, FNC prepaid, without penalty, an aggregate $4.8 million of mortgage debt encumbering five of its properties. As of December 31, 2005, FNC had approximately $11.4 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 11 properties. These remaining loans bear interest at fixed rates ranging from 4.00% to 7.75% and maturity dates ranging from June 2012 through June 2022. The Company’s investment strategy with respect to FNC includes re-tenanting, re-developing and disposition of the properties. From July 27, 2005, through December 31, 2005, FNC disposed of nine properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $9.4 million. Dispositions - During 2005, the Company (i) disposed of, in separate transactions, 20 operating 14 Back to Contents properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $93.3 million, (ii) transferred three operating properties to KROP for an aggregate price of approximately $49.0 million, (iii) transferred 52 operating properties to various joint ventures in which the Company manages and has non-controlling interests ranging from 15% to 50% for an aggregate price of approximately $183.1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, these transactions resulted in gains of approximately $31.9 million and a loss on sale/transfer from four of the properties for approximately $5.2 million. During June 2005, the Company disposed of a vacant land parcel located in New Ridge, MD, for approximately $5.6 million, resulting in a $4.6 million gain on sale. This gain is included in Other income, net on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. Redevelopments - The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 2005, the Company substantially completed the redevelopment and re-tenanting of various operating properties. The Company expended approximately $55.5 million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting projects during 2005. The Company is currently involved in redeveloping several other shopping centers in the existing portfolio. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects will be approximately $90.0 million to $110.0 million during 2006. Ground-Up Development - The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consists of (i) merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, KDI, which develops neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various ground-up development projects located in Mexico and Canada for long-term investment (see Recent Developments – International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The ground-up development projects generally have substantial pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had in progress a total of 38 ground-up development projects including 26 merchant building projects, five domestic ground-up development projects, six ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico and one ground-up development project located in Canada. These projects are currently proceeding on schedule and substantially in line with the Company’s budgeted costs of approximately $1.3 billion. As of December 31, 2005, KDI had in progress 26 ground-up development projects located in nine states. In addition, KDI manages the construction of four domestic projects for the Company, which will be held as long-term investments. During 2005, KDI expended approximately $449.1 million in connection with the purchase of land and construction costs related to these projects and those sold during 2005. These projects are currently proceeding on schedule and substantially in line with the Company’s budgeted costs. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these development projects will be approximately $200.0 million to $250.0 million during 2006. The proceeds from the sale of completed ground-up development projects during 2006, proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements. Acquisitions - During 2005, KDI acquired various land parcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $185.7 million. The estimated project costs for these newly acquired parcels are approximately $609.6 million with completion dates ranging from March 2006 to June 2009. Date Acquired City State Purchase Price (in millions) February 2005 Various AZ, NC $ 3.4 March 2005 Various AZ, NE, TX 22.2 May 2005 Jacksonville FL 18.5 June 2005 Various CA, NC 30.9 July 2005 Various AZ, FL, ID, TX 26.5 August 2005 Cypress TX 2.5 September 2005 Mesa AZ 32.5 October 2005 Various ID, NY 10.4 December 2005 Various FL, ID 38.8 $ 185.7 15 Back to Contents During 2005, the Company obtained a term loan and individual construction loans on two ground-up development projects and paid off construction loans on five ground-up development projects. At December 31, 2005, total loan commitments on the remaining 15 construction loans aggregated approximately $343.5 million of which approximately $228.5 million has been funded. These loans have maturities ranging from 4 months to 31 months and bear interest at rates ranging from 6.04% to 6.64% at December 31, 2005. Dispositions - During 2005, KDI sold, in separate transactions, six of its recently completed projects and 41 out-parcels for approximately $264.1 million. These sales resulted in pre-tax gains of approximately $33.6 million. Details are as follows: Date Sold Project City State Sales Price (in millions) January 2005 Maricopa, AZ, project and 3 out-parcels at various projects Various AZ, NY $ 26.4 February 2005 Fountain Hills, AZ, project and out-parcels at Chandler, AZ Various AZ 51.4 March 2005 Various (2 out-parcels) Various AZ, TX 4.6 April 2005 Various (1 multi-tenant parcel and 2 out-parcels) Various AZ, OH, TX 9.4 May 2005 Various (5 out-parcels) Various AZ, MI, TX 7.3 June 2005 Completed projects in Durham, NC, and Houston, TX and 4 out-parcels in various projects Various NE, NC, TX 46.9 July 2005 Various (2 out-parcels) and earn-out proceeds Various FL, TX 5.7 August 2005 Various (3 out-parcels) Various TX 2.5 September 2005 Burlington, NC, project and 2 out-parcels at Jacksonville, FL Various FL, NC 51.5 October 2005 Various (4 out-parcels) and earn-out proceeds Various FL, MI, NC, OH 4.6 November 2005 Various (6 out-parcels) Various FL, NY, TX 14.7 December 2005 Longview, WA, project, 2 out-parcels at various projects and earn-out proceeds Various FL, ID, TX, WA 39.1 $ 264.1 Operating Real Estate Joint Venture Investments - Kimco Income REIT (“KIR”) - The Company has a 43.3% non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR, manages the portfolio and accounts for its investment under the equity method of accounting. During March 2005, KIR disposed of an operating property and an out-parcel, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $43.1 million. These sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $17.8 million of which the pro-rata gain to the Company was approximately $7.7 million. In connection with the sale of the operating property, KIR incurred a $2.0 million loan defeasance charge, of which the Company’s pro-rata share was approximately $0.9 million. During October 2005, KIR sold an operating property for a sales price of approximately $8.1 million. This sale resulted in a gain of approximately $2.4 million of which the pro-rata gain to the Company was approximately $1.0 million. Additionally, during March 2005, KIR acquired an operating property located in Delran, NJ, for a purchase price of approximately $4.6 million. In April 2005, KIR entered into a three-year $30.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility which bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.40%. As of December 31, 2005, there were no amounts outstanding under this facility. 16 Back to Contents As of December 31, 2005, the KIR portfolio was comprised of 68 shopping center properties aggregating approximately 14.2 million square feet of GLA located in 20 states. KROP Venture- During 2001, the Company formed a joint venture (the “Kimco Retail Opportunity Portfolio” or “KROP”) with GE Capital Real Estate (“GECRE”), in which the Company has a 20% non-controlling interest and manages the portfolio. The purpose of this joint venture is to acquire established, high-growth potential retail properties in the United States. Total capital commitments to KROP from GECRE and the Company are for $200.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively, and such commitments are funded proportionately as suitable opportunities arise and are agreed to by GECRE and the Company. During 2005, GECRE and the Company contributed approximately $21.2 million and $5.3 million, respectively, towards their capital commitments. The Company accounts for its investment in KROP under the equity method of accounting. During 2005, KROP acquired four operating properties and one out-parcel, in separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $74.6 million, including the assumption of approximately $26.2 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering two of the properties and preferred units of approximately $4.2 million associated with another property. During 2005, KROP disposed of three unencumbered operating properties and two out-parcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $60.3 million. These sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $18.3 million of which the Company’s pro-rata share was approximately $3.7 million. During 2005, KROP obtained ten-year individual non-recourse, non-cross collateralized fixed-rate mortgages aggregating approximately $21.9 million on two of its previously unencumbered properties with rates ranging from 5.2% to 5.3%. During 2005, KROP obtained two non-recourse, non-cross collateralized variable-rate mortgages aggregating approximately $25.7 million on two properties with rates of LIBOR plus 1.30% and LIBOR plus 1.65% with terms of two and three years, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, the KROP portfolio was comprised of 38 shopping center properties aggregating approximately 5.6 million square feet of GLA located in 14 states. Other Real Estate Joint Ventures – During December 2004, the Company acquired the Price Legacy Corporation through a newly formed joint venture, PL Retail LLC (“PL Retail”), in which the Company has a 15% non-controlling interest and manages the portfolio. The Company accounts for its investment under the equity method of accounting. In connection with this transaction, PL Retail acquired 33 operating properties aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet of GLA located in ten states. To partially fund the acquisition, the Company provided PL Retail approximately $30.6 million of secured mezzanine financing. The Company also, provided PL Retail a secured short-term promissory note of approximately $8.2 million. This interest-only note bore interest at LIBOR plus 4.50% and was scheduled to mature in June 2005. During 2005, this note was amended to bear interest at LIBOR plus 6.0% and is now payable on demand. This interest only loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% and matures in December 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2005, PL Retail disposed of nine operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $81.4 million, which represented the approximate carrying values of the properties. Proceeds of approximately $22.0 million were used to partially repay the mezzanine financing that was provided by the Company. As of December 31, 2005, PL Retail had approximately $8.9 million outstanding on the mezzanine financing and approximately $8.2 million outstanding on the promissory note. During March 2005, a joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, disposed of two vacant land parcels located in Glendale, AZ, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $9.9 million. These sales resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $4.8 million, of which the Company’s share was approximately $2.4 million. During April 2005, the Company acquired an operating property located in Hillsborough, NJ, comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA, through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest. The property was acquired for approximately $4.0 million including the assumption of approximately $1.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering the property. Subsequent to the 17 Back to Contents purchase, the joint venture obtained a $3.2 million one-year term loan which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.55%. This loan is jointly and severally guaranteed by the joint venture partners, including the Company. Proceeds from this loan were used to repay the $1.9 million mortgage encumbering the property. During June 2005, the Company acquired land in Tustin, CA, through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, for a purchase price of approximately $23.0 million. The property will be developed into a 1.0 million square foot retail center with a total estimated project cost of approximately $149.3 million. The purchase of the land was funded through a new construction loan which bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.70% and is scheduled to mature in October 2007. As of December 31, 2005, this construction loan had an outstanding balance of approximately $40.4 million. Additionally, during June 2005, the Company acquired an additional 25% interest in a joint venture in which the Company had previously held a 7.77% interest for approximately $26.0 million. This joint venture owns an operating property, comprised of approximately 0.5 million square feet of GLA, located in Fremont, CA. During December 2005, the Company sold a portion of its interest in this joint venture to a new partner who purchased 70% of this partnership. The Company now has a 30% non-controlling interest in this joint venture manages and accounts for its investment under the equity method of accounting. During July 2005, the Company acquired an interest in an office property located in Houston, TX, comprising approximately 0.6 million square feet of GLA through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has an 85% non-controlling interest. The Company’s investment in the joint venture was approximately $12.2 million. The joint venture purchased the property for approximately $91.1 million subject to $76.5 million of non-recourse mortgage debt which bears interest at a fixed-rate of 5.15% per annum and matures during August 2015. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method of accounting. During May 2005, the Company acquired a $10.2 million mortgage receivable through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest. The mortgage encumbered a property located in Derby, CT, comprising approximately 0.1 million square feet of GLA. During October 2005, the joint venture foreclosed on the property and obtained fee title. Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 12 operating properties comprising approximately 1.7 million square feet of GLA, through newly formed joint ventures in which the company has non-controlling interests ranging from 5% to 50%. The aggregate purchase price for these properties was approximately $265.6 million, including the assumption of approximately $29.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties. The Company accounts for its investment in these joint ventures under the equity method of accounting. During September 2005, the Company transferred 45 operating properties, comprising approximately 0.3 million square feet of GLA, located in Virginia and Maryland to a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a 15% non-controlling interest. The transfer price was approximately $85.3 million including the assignment of approximately $65.0 million of cross-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering all of the properties. Additionally, during 2005, the Company transferred, in separate transactions, five operating properties comprising approximately 0.7 million square feet of GLA, to newly formed joint ventures in which the Company has 20% non-controlling interests, for an aggregate price of approximately $85.6 million, including the assignment of approximately $40.2 million of mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties. The Company accounts for its investments in these joint ventures under the equity method of accounting. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s carrying value in these investments approximated $735.6 million. International Real Estate Investments - Canadian Investments - During October 2001, the Company formed the RioCan Venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, to acquire retail properties and development projects in Canada. The acquisition and development projects are to be sourced and managed by RioCan and are subject to review and approval by a joint oversight committee consisting of RioCan management and the Company’s management personnel. Capital contributions will only be 18 Back to Contents required as suitable opportunities arise and are agreed to by the Company and RioCan. As of December 31, 2005, the RioCan Venture was comprised of 34 operating properties and one development property, consisting of approximately 8.1 million square feet of GLA. During May 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, acquired in separate transactions, two auto dealerships located in Toronto, Canada, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately CAD $6.4 million (approximately USD $5.1 million). During 2005, the Company, in separate transactions, made four Canadian preferred equity investments aggregating approximately CAD $24.2 million (approximately USD $20.7 million) to developers and owners of various real estate interests. The Company has used the equity method of accounting for the Canadian investments described above. Mexican Investments - During March 2005, the Company transferred 50% of the Company’s 95% interest in a developed property located in Huehuetoca, Mexico, to a joint venture partner for approximately $5.3 million, which approximated its carrying value. As a result of this transaction, the Company now holds a 47.5% non-controlling interest and has deconsolidated the investment. The Company now accounts for its investment under the equity method of accounting. During May 2005, the Company acquired a hotel property located in Cancun, Mexico, through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has an 80% non-controlling interest. The property was purchased for approximately $19.7 million. Simultaneous with the closing, the property was encumbered with $12.4 million of non-recourse mortgage debt which bears interest at a fixed rate of 7.63% per annum and matures during May 2010. During 2005, the property incurred significant hurricane damage which has temporarily suspended operations. The Company believes that its property insurance and business interruption insurance will adequately cover losses associated with this event. During July 2005, the Company transferred a developed property located in Reynosa, Mexico, to a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, for a price of approximately $6.9 million. The Company now accounts for this investment under the equity method of accounting. During October 2005, the Company acquired interests in 57 industrial properties located in Mexico, through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, for a purchase price of approximately $277.5 million, including the assumption of approximately $167.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 52 properties. The properties comprise approximately 5.6 million square feet of GLA. During 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, two parcels of land located in Saltillo and Pachuca, Mexico, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $14.6 million. The properties will be developed into retail centers with an aggregate total projected cost of approximately $34.1 million. Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, six parcels of land located in various cities throughout Mexico, through newly formed joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 50% to 80%, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $42.1 million. The properties were at various stages of construction at acquisition and will be developed into retail centers with a projected total aggregate cost of approximately $183.1 million. Other Real Estate Investments - Kimsouth - During November 2002, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiary, together with Prometheus Southeast Retail Trust, completed the merger and privatization of Konover Property Trust, which has been renamed Kimsouth Realty, Inc., (“Kimsouth”). The Company acquired 44.5% of the common stock of Kimsouth, which consisted primarily of 38 retail shopping center properties comprising approximately 4.6 million square feet of GLA. Total acquisition value was approximately $280.9 million, including approximately $216.2 million in assumed mortgage debt. The Company’s investment strategy with respect to Kimsouth includes re-tenanting, repositioning and disposition of the properties. 19 Back to Contents During 2005, Kimsouth disposed of seven shopping center properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $78.8 million, including the assignment of approximately $23.7 million of mortgage debt encumbering two of the properties. During 2005, the Company recognized pre-tax profits from the Kimsouth investment of approximately $4.9 million, which is included in the caption Income from other real estate investments on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2005, the Kimsouth portfolio was comprised of five properties including the office component of an operating property sold in 2004, aggregating approximately 1.2 million square feet of GLA located in four states. Preferred Equity Capital - The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners of real estate properties. During 2005, the Company provided in separate transactions, an aggregate of approximately $84.3 million in investment capital to developers and owners of 79 real estate properties. As of December 31, 2005, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity program was approximately $225.9 million relating to 131 properties. For the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company earned approximately $32.8 million, including $12.6 million from promoted interests earned from six capital transactions from these investments. Mortgages and Other Financing Receivables - During May 2002, the Company provided a secured $15.0 million three-year term loan and a secured $7.5 million revolving credit facility to Frank’s, at an interest rate of 10.25% per annum collateralized by 40 real estate interests. Interest was payable quarterly in arrears. During 2003, the revolving credit facility was amended to increase the total borrowing capacity to $17.5 million. During January 2004, the revolving loan was further amended to provide up to $33.75 million of borrowings from the Company. During September 2004, Frank’s filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The Company committed to provide an additional $27.0 million of Debtor-in-Possession financing with a term of one year at an interest rate of Prime plus 1.00% per annum. During July 2005, Frank’s emerged from bankruptcy as FNC and repaid all outstanding amounts owed to the Company under the revolving credit facility and Debtor-in-Possession agreement (See Recent Developments – FNC Realty Corporation and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). During April 2005, the Company provided a construction loan commitment of up to MXP 53.5 million (approximately USD $5.0 million) to a developer for the construction of a new retail center in Acapulco, Mexico. The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 11.75% and provides for an additional 20% participation of property cash flow, as defined. This loan is initially interest only and then converts to an amortizing loan at the earlier of 120 days after construction completion or upon opening of the anchor tenant. This loan is collateralized by the related property and matures in May 2015. As of December 31, 2005, there was approximately MXP 53.5 million (USD $5.0 million) outstanding on this loan. Additionally, during April 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, provided a retailer with a three-year $28.0 million revolving line of credit at a floating interest rate of Prime plus 5.5% per annum. The facility also provides for a 3.0% unused line fee and a 2.50% origination fee. The facility is collateralized by certain real estate interests of the borrower. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this facility was $10.2 million of which the Company’s share was $5.2 million. During May 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company has a 44.38% non-controlling interest, provided Debtor-in-Possession financing to a healthcare facility that recently filed for bankruptcy and is closing its operations. The term of this loan is two years and bears interest at prime plus 2.5%. The loan is collateralized by a hospital building, a six-story commercial building, a 12-story 133-unit apartment complex and various other building structures. The Company’s share of the outstanding balance of this loan at December 31, 2005, is $2.9 million. Additionally, during May 2005, the Company acquired four mortgage loans collateralized by individual properties with an aggregate face value of approximately $16.6 million for approximately $14.3 million. These performing loans, which provide for monthly payments of principal and interest, bear interest at a fixed-rate of 7.57% and mature on June 1, 2019. As of December 31, 2005, there was an aggregate of approximately $14.1 million outstanding on these loans. During September 2005, a newly formed joint venture, in which the Company has an 80% 20 Back to Contents interest, acquired a $43.6 million mortgage receivable for a purchase price of approximately $34.2 million. This performing loan bears interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 2.75% per annum and matures on January 12, 2010. The loan is collateralized by a 626-room hotel located in Lake Buena Vista, FL. The Company has determined that this entity is a VIE and has further determined that the Company is the primary beneficiary of this VIE and has therefore consolidated it for financial reporting purposes. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding loan balance, net of discount, was approximately $35.0 million. During October 2005, the Company provided a construction loan commitment of up to $38.1 million to a developer for acquisition and re-development of a retail center located in Richland Township, PA. The loan is interest only at a rate of LIBOR plus 220 basis points and matures in October 2007. As of December 31, 2005, the outstanding balance on this loan was approximately $3.2 million. During March 2002, the Company provided a $50.0 million ten-year loan to Shopko Stores, Inc., at an interest rate of 11.0% per annum collateralized by 15 properties. The Company received principal and interest payments on a monthly basis. During January 2003, the Company sold a $37.0 million participation interest in this loan to an unaffiliated third party. The interest rate on the $37.0 million participation interest was a variable rate based on LIBOR plus 3.50%. The Company continued to act as the servicer for the full amount of the loan. During December 2005, Shopko, as part of its privatization transaction, prepaid the outstanding loan balance of approximately $46.7 million in full satisfaction of this loan. As part of this loan satisfaction, Shopko paid the Company a prepayment fee of approximately $14.0 million. During July 2004, the Company provided an $11.0 million five-year term loan to a retailer at a floating interest rate of Prime plus 3.0% per annum or, at the borrower’s election, LIBOR plus 5.5% per annum. The facility was interest only, payable monthly in arrears and was collateralized by certain real estate interests of the borrower. During December 2005, the borrower elected to prepay the outstanding loan balance of $11.0 million in full satisfaction of this loan. During December 2005, the Company provided a construction loan commitment of up to MXP 39.9 million (approximately USD $3.7 million) to a developer for the construction of a new retail center in Magno Deco, Mexico. The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 11.75% and provides for an additional 20% participation of property cash flow, as defined. This loan is collateralized by the related property and matures in May 2015. As of December 31, 2005, there was approximately MXP 38.7 million (USD $3.6 million) outstanding on this loan. Financing Transactions - Non-Recourse Mortgage Debt - During 2005, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately $95.6 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt on 53 operating properties, (ii) assumed approximately $79.7 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of 11 operating properties, including approximately $6.3 million of fair value debt adjustments, (iii) consolidated approximately $33.2 million of non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the purchase of additional ownership interests in various entities, (iv) assigned approximately $119.8 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the transfer of 49 operating properties to various co-investment ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 10% to 30%, (v) paid off approximately $66.9 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt that encumbered 11 operating properties,(vi) deconsolidated approximately $41.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the reduction of the Company’s economic interest in a joint venture and (vii) assigned approximately $7.8 million of non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the sale of one operating property. Unsecured Debt - During February 2005, the Company issued $100.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes under its medium-term notes (“MTN”) program. This fixed rate MTN matures in February 2015 and bears interest at 4.904% per annum. The proceeds from this MTN issuance were primarily used for the repayment of all $20.0 million of the Company’s fixed rate notes that matured in April 2005, which bore interest at 7.91%, all $10.25 million of the Company’s fixed rate notes that matured in May 2005, which bore interest at 7.30%, and partial repayment of the Company’s $100.0 million fixed rate notes, which matured in June 2005, and bore interest at 6.73%. 21 Back to Contents During June 2005, the Company issued $200.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes under its MTN program. This fixed rate MTN matures in June 2014 and bears interest at 4.82% per annum. The proceeds from this issuance were primarily used to repay a portion of the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. During November 2005, the Company issued an aggregate $250.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes under its MTN program. The Company issued a $150.0 million MTN which matures in November 2015 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 5.584% per annum and a $100.0 million MTN which matures in February 2011 and bears interest at fixed rate of 5.304% per annum. Proceeds from these MTN issuances were used for general corporate purposes and to repay a portion of the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility. A portion of the outstanding balance related to the repayment of the Company’s $50.0 million 7.68% fixed rate notes, which matured on November 1, 2005, and repayment of the Company’s $20.0 million 6.83% fixed rate notes, which matured on November 14, 2005. During April 2005, Kimco North Trust III, a wholly-owned entity of the Company, completed the issuance of $150.0 million Canadian denominated senior unsecured notes. The notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.45% and mature on April 21, 2010. The Company has provided a full and unconditional guarantee of the notes. The proceeds were used by Kimco North Trust III to pay down outstanding indebtedness under existing credit facilities, to fund long-term investments in Canadian real estate and for general corporate purposes. The senior unsecured notes are governed by an indenture by and among Kimco North Trust III, the Company, as guarantor, and BNY Trust Company of Canada, as trustee, dated April 21, 2005. Construction Loans - During 2005, the Company obtained a term loan and construction financing on two ground-up development projects for an aggregate loan amount of up to $50.5 million, of which approximately $22.4 million was funded as of December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had a total of 15 construction loans with commitments of up to $343.5 million, of which $228.5 million had been funded to the Company. These loans had maturities ranging from 4 months to 31 months and variable interest rates ranging from 6.04% to 6.64% at December 31, 2005. Credit Facilities - During July 2005, the Company established a new $850.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”), which is scheduled to expire in July 2008. This Credit Facility replaces the Company’s $500.0 million unsecured credit facility, which was scheduled to expire in June 2006. Under the Credit Facility, funds may be borrowed for general corporate purposes, including the funding of (i) property acquisitions, (ii) development and redevelopment costs and (iii) any short-term working capital requirements. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Facility accrue at a spread (currently 0.45%) to LIBOR and fluctuates in accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings. As part of this Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid option whereby the Company may auction up to $425.0 million of its requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides the Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread to LIBOR of 0.45%. A facility fee of 0.125% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. In addition, the Company has a $200.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is (i) subject to maintaining certain maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured senior corporate debt and minimum unencumbered asset and equity levels and (ii) restricted from paying dividends in amounts that exceed 95% of funds from operations, as defined. As of December 31, 2005, there was $200.0 million outstanding under this credit facility. During September 2004, the Company entered into a three-year CAD $150.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks. This facility bears interest at the CDOR Rate, as defined, plus 0.50% and is scheduled to expire in September 2007. During March 2005, this facility was increased to CAD $250.0 million and the scheduled maturity date was extended to March 2008. During January 2006, the facility was further amended to reduce the borrowing spread to 0.45% and to modify the covenant package to conform to the Company’s $850.0 million U.S. Credit Facility. Proceeds from this facility will be used for general corporate purposes including the funding of Canadian denominated investments. As of December 31, 2005, there was CAD $110.0 million (approximately USD $94.7 million) outstanding under this facility. 22 Back to Contents During May 2005, the Company entered into a three-year MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. This facility bears interest at the TIIE Rate, as defined, plus 1.00% and is scheduled to expire in May 2008. Proceeds from this facility will be used to fund peso-denominated investments. As of December 31, 2005, there was MXP 500.0 million (approximately USD $46.7 million) outstanding under this facility. Equity - During July 2005, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 for up to $1.0 billion of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $750.0 million available for issuance under this shelf registration statement. During 2005, the Company received approximately $49.0 million through employee stock option exercises and the dividend reinvestment program. Exchange Listings The Company’s common stock and Class F Depositary Shares are traded on the NYSE under the trading symbols “KIM” and “KIMprF”, respectively. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 