ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 12 WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL INDEBTEDNESS, WHICH COULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MEET OUR OBLIGATIONS AND MAY OTHERWISE RESTRICT OUR ACTIVITIES. As of December 31, 2005, we had total indebtedness for borrowed money of approximately $291.2 million. In addition, at that date, $28.9 million was available for future borrowings under the multi-currency revolving credit facility and E9.3 million was available to our French subsidiary, Autocam France, SARL under the euro-denominated revolving credit facility of our senior credit facilities. We are also permitted under the terms of the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, or the "Notes," to incur additional indebtedness in the future provided that we comply with certain financial ratios or tests. Any additional indebtedness could intensify the leverage related risks described below. Our substantial indebtedness could: - - make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness; - - require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; - - increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in currency exchange rates; - - limit our ability to respond to business opportunities; - - limit our ability to borrow additional funds or refinance existing indebtedness, which may be necessary; and - - subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default. TO SERVICE OUR INDEBTEDNESS, WE WILL REQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF CASH. OUR ABILITY TO GENERATE CASH DEPENDS ON MANY FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, including those described in this "Risk Factors" section, that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or we may be unable to borrow additional funds under our senior credit facilities or otherwise in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to refinance our debt obligations on favorable terms, it could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE DEPEND UPON GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND ARE HIGHLY CYCLICAL. Our financial performance depends on conditions in the global automotive industry, and, generally, on the North American and European economies. Our sales to customers in the automotive and light-duty truck industries accounted for substantially all of our sales in 2005. Demand in the automotive industry fluctuates significantly in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rate levels, consumer confidence and fuel costs. Any sustained weakness in demand or downturn in the economy generally could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our sales are also impacted by inventory levels and OEM production levels. We cannot predict when OEMs will decide to either build or reduce inventory levels or whether new inventory levels will approximate historical inventory levels. This may result in variability in our performance. Uncertainty regarding inventory levels has been exacerbated by favorable consumer financing programs initiated by OEM manufacturers, which may accelerate sales that otherwise would occur in future periods. In addition, we have historically experienced sales declines during the OEMs' scheduled shut-downs or shut-downs resulting from unforeseen events. Continued uncertainty and other unexpected fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Tier I supplier industry is also cyclical, and in large part, dependant on the overall strength of consumer demand for various types of motor vehicles. A decrease in consumer demand for motor vehicles in general or specific types of vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 OUR BASE OF CUSTOMERS IS CONCENTRATED AND THE LOSS OF BUSINESS FROM OR BANKRUPTCY OF A MAJOR CUSTOMER OR A CHANGE IN AUTO CONSUMER PREFERENCES OR REGULATIONS COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON US. Because of the relative importance of our largest customers and the high degree of concentration of OEMs in the North American automotive industry, our business is exposed to a high degree of risk related to customer concentration. Our seven largest customers accounted for 76.6% of our sales in 2005. Although we have long-term contracts with many of our customers, some of our customers are not subject to long-term contracts or may have the ability to terminate their contracts with us. The loss or bankruptcy of a major customer or a significant reduction in sales to a major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. For example, on October 8, 2005, Delphi and its United States subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. See discussion in Item 7 of this report. Our customers consist primarily of Tier I suppliers, like ZF, TRW, Delphi and Bosch, that serve the large OEMs. Accordingly, while sales directly to OEMs accounted for an insignificant percentage of our sales, due to our significant Tier I customer base, adverse performance by, the bankruptcy of or production cuts at these OEMs could also adversely impact our sales to Tier I suppliers. Our sales and performance are also influenced by consumer preferences, regulatory changes and OEM new vehicle financing programs. In addition, government regulations, including those relating to fuel economy, could impact vehicle content and volume and, accordingly, have a material adverse impact on us. INCREASES IN OUR RAW MATERIAL OR ELECTRICITY COSTS OR THE LOSS OF A SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER OF OUR SUPPLIERS OR A MATERIAL DISRUPTION IN ELECTRICITY SUPPLIES COULD AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL HEALTH. The most significant raw material used in our business is steel. Generally, our raw materials requirements are obtainable from various sources and in the desired quantities. While we currently maintain alternative sources for raw materials, our businesses are subject to the risk of price fluctuations and periodic delays in the delivery of various raw materials and component parts. The domestic steel industry has experienced substantial financial instability due to numerous factors, including energy costs and the effect of foreign competition. As a result of various global economic factors, rising steel prices could have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, a failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with various raw materials on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would have a material adverse effect on us. Electricity costs are an element of our cost structure. To the extent there are material fluctuations in electricity costs, our margins could be adversely impacted. Any material disruption in electricity supplies could delay our production and could have a material adverse effect on us. CONTINUING TRENDS AMONG OUR CUSTOMERS WILL INCREASE COMPETITIVE PRESSURES IN OUR BUSINESSES. The markets for our products are highly competitive. Our competitors include component manufacturing facilities of Tier I suppliers, as well as independent domestic and international suppliers. Some of our competitors are large companies with in-house machining operations that have greater financial resources than us. At times, we may be in a position of competing with some of our own customers, which could have adverse consequences. We believe that the principal competitive factors for all of our products are product quality and conformity to customer specifications, design and engineering capabilities, product development, timeliness of delivery and price. In addition, our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products or may adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Technological advances by our competitors may lead to new manufacturing techniques to make our products and make it more difficult for us to compete. Continuing trends by our customers in many of our markets to limit their number of outside suppliers may result in increased competition as many competitors may reduce prices to compete. In addition, financial and operating difficulties experienced by our major customers, particularly Delphi, and the OEMs that our customers supply their products to, may result in further pricing pressures on us. Pricing pressure from customers has been a characteristic of the automotive parts industry for many years. Almost all Tier I suppliers have policies of seeking price reductions each year. We have taken steps to reduce costs and resist price reductions, but price reductions have impacted our sales and profit margins. We may also be subject to increased pricing pressures from customers because our financial information is publicly available. If we are not able to offset continued price reductions through improved operating efficiencies and reduced costs, we may lose customers or be compelled to make price concessions that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 We are continually exposed to pressure from our customers to extend payment terms. Currently, customary industry payment terms in the United States are 30-45 days; however, customers routinely request payment terms of 45-60 days. In Europe, customary terms exceed 90 days. To the extent we are unsuccessful in resisting our customers' attempts to lengthen payment terms our liquidity may be adversely impacted. We expect competitive pressures in our markets to remain strong. These pressures arise from existing competitors, other companies that may enter our existing or future markets and, in some cases, our customers, which themselves may decide to produce certain items sold by us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. Failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS. IN ADDITION, WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LITIGATION AND INFRINGEMENT CLAIMS BY THIRD PARTIES. We rely upon proprietary technology and technology advancements to maintain competitiveness in the market. We generally rely on a combination of unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, copyrights, trademarks, and, to a lesser extent, patents in order to preserve our position in the market. Because of the importance of our proprietary know-how, we typically enter into confidentiality or license agreements with third parties, employees and consultants, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We have entered into, and may enter into in the future, other contractual arrangements with employees and third parties relating to our intellectual property rights. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. It is difficult for us to monitor unauthorized uses of our products. The steps we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Although we enter into confidentiality agreements with third parties to whom we disclose unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, these methods may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar know-how and trade secrets. If third parties take actions that affect our rights or the value of our intellectual property, similar proprietary rights or reputation or we are unable to protect our intellectual property from infringement or misappropriation, other companies may be able to use our intellectual property to offer competitive products at lower prices and we may not be able to effectively compete against these companies. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are sufficient to allow us to conduct our business without incurring liability to third parties, we can give no assurance that claims or litigation asserting infringement by us of intellectual property rights will not be initiated in the future seeking damages, payment of royalties or licensing fees, or an injunction against the sale of our products or that we would prevail in any litigation or be successful in preventing such judgment. In the future, we may also rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights and contractual rights and, if not successful, we may not be able to protect the value of our intellectual property. Regardless of its outcome, any litigation, whether commenced by us or a third party, could be protracted and costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. LOSS OF KEY EXECUTIVE OFFICERS COULD WEAKEN OUR BUSINESS EXPERTISE AND OTHER BUSINESS PLANS. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and technical, marketing and sales personnel. Our employees, including management, may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. There is competition for qualified employees and personnel in our industry and there are a limited number of persons with relevant knowledge and experience. The loss of any of our key executive officers in the future could significantly impede our ability to successfully implement our business strategy, financial plans, expansion of services, marketing and other objectives. We believe that the growth and future success of our business will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract, motivate and retain highly-skilled, qualified personnel. 15 WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO WORK STOPPAGES AT OUR FACILITIES OR AT THE FACILITIES OF OUR PRINCIPAL CUSTOMERS. As is common in many European and South American jurisdictions, substantially all of our 1,191 French and 674 Brazilian employees are covered by country-wide collective bargaining agreements. There can be no assurance that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not experience a work stoppage that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, in April 2004, we experienced a one hour work stoppage by some employees of our French facilities with respect to compensation negotiations then in progress. These negotiations concluded and the dispute was resolved. If our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, if a greater percentage of our work force becomes unionized, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Many of our direct or indirect customers have unionized work forces. Strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by OEMs or their suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of assembly plants where our products are included in assembled vehicles. In addition, organizations responsible for shipping our customers' products may be impacted by occasional strikes. Any interruption in the delivery of our customers' products would reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on us. OUR ACQUISITION STRATEGY MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to pursue the acquisition of other companies, assets and product lines that either complement or expand our existing business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any acquisitions or that any future acquisitions will be able to be consummated at acceptable prices and terms. We continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, including those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks and factors, including: - - the focus of management's attention to the assimilation of acquired companies and their employees and on the management of expanding operations; - - the incorporation of acquired products into our product line; - - the increasing demands on our operational systems; - - the failure to realize expected synergies; - - possible adverse effects on our reported operating results, particularly during the first several periods after the acquisition is complete; - - the amortization of acquired intangible assets; and - - the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses. In pursuing acquisitions, we compete against other automotive part manufacturers, some of which are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources than we have. We compete for potential acquisitions based on a number of factors, including price, terms and conditions, size and ability to offer cash, stock or other forms of consideration. Increased competition for acquisition candidates could result in fewer acquisition opportunities for us and higher acquisition prices. As a company without public equity, we may not be able to offer attractive equity to potential sellers. Additionally, our acquisition strategy may result in significant increases in our outstanding indebtedness and debt service requirements. The terms of the Notes, the senior credit facilities and the second lien credit facility further limit acquisitions we may pursue. In addition, the negotiation of potential acquisitions may require members of management to divert their time and resources away from our operations. THE INTEGRATION OF ACQUIRED BUSINESSES MAY RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL COSTS, DELAYS OR OTHER PROBLEMS. We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions without substantial costs, delays or other problems. We will have to continue to expend substantial managerial, operating, financial and other resources to integrate our businesses. The costs of integration could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. These costs include non-recurring acquisition costs, including accounting and legal fees, investment banking fees, recognition of transaction-related obligations and various other acquisition-related costs. In addition, the pace of our acquisitions of other businesses may materially and adversely affect our efforts to integrate acquisitions and manage those acquisitions profitably. We may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the acquired businesses, but may be unable to recruit additional candidates with the necessary skills. 16 Although we conduct what we believe to be a prudent level of investigation regarding the operating and financial condition of the businesses we purchase, in light of the circumstances of each transaction, an unavoidable level of risk remains regarding the actual operating condition of these businesses. Until we actually assume operating control of these business assets and their operations, we may not be able to ascertain the actual value or understand the potential liabilities of the acquired entities and their operations. Once we acquire a business, the risks we are faced with include: - - the possibility that it will be difficult to integrate the operations into our other operations; - - the possibility that we have acquired substantial undisclosed liabilities; - - the risks of entering markets or offering services for which we have no prior experience; and - - the potential loss of customers as a result of changes in management. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks. FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATES MAY SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND MAY SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECT THE COMPARABILITY OF OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BETWEEN FINANCIAL PERIODS. Our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in countries where the functional currency is not our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. The results of the operations and the financial position of these subsidiaries are reported in the relevant foreign, or functional, currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our combined financial statements. As a result, our financial results are impacted by currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the euro and, to a lesser extent, other currencies, which are unrelated to our underlying results of operations. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, $69.6 million, or 23.9%, of our total indebtedness was denominated in euros. While this helps us match the currency of some of our revenues and expenses with the currency of our debt repayment obligations, the carrying value of that indebtedness will fluctuate depending on currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro. To the extent the U.S. dollar declines against the euro, interest expenses for our euro-denominated indebtedness will increase for financial reporting purposes. We are also subject to interest rate risk because we have substantial indebtedness at variable interest rates. As of December 31, 2005, our interest was determined on a variable basis on $142.4 million, or 48.9%, of our total indebtedness. An increase in interest rates of 0.25% will increase interest expense under our variable rate loans by $0.4 million per year. In March 2006, through an interest rate swap agreement we fixed the interest rate on $50.0 million of our variable-interest-rate indebtedness at a London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) of 5.14% for five years. We incur currency transaction risk whenever we enter into either a purchase or sale transaction using a currency other than the local currency of the transacting entity. Further, while we will attempt to repay indebtedness using cash flows from the same currency under which the indebtedness is denominated, there are no assurances we will be able to do so. For example, if we are forced to repay borrowings of ours or our domestic subsidiaries that are denominated in U.S. dollars with euros, depreciation of the euro against the U.S. dollar will make the debt repayment more costly in euro terms. While we may enter into various currency and interest rate hedging contracts, we cannot assure you that any hedging transactions we might enter into will be successful or that shifts in the currency exchange or interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on us. WE ARE SUBJECT TO TAXATION IN MULTIPLE JURISDICTIONS. We are subject to taxation primarily in the United States, France, Brazil, Poland and China. Our effective tax rate and tax liability will be affected by a number of factors, like the amount of taxable income in particular jurisdictions, the tax rates in these jurisdictions, tax treaties between jurisdictions, the extent to which we transfer funds to and repatriate funds from our foreign subsidiaries, and future changes in the law. Our tax liability will be dependent upon our operating results and the manner in which our operations are funded. Generally, the tax liability for each legal entity is determined either on a non-consolidated basis or on a consolidated basis only with other entities incorporated in the same jurisdiction. In either case, our tax liability is determined without regard to the taxable losses of non-consolidated affiliated entities. As a result, we may pay income taxes in one jurisdiction for a particular period even though on an overall basis we incur a net loss for that period. 17 OUR OPERATIONS OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES ARE SUBJECT TO POLITICAL, INVESTMENT AND LOCAL BUSINESS RISKS. Sales by our subsidiaries located outside of the United States accounted for 54.3% of our 2005 sales and an additional 4.9% of our sales in 2005 were derived from sales of products manufactured in the United States that were sold outside the United States. As part of our business strategy, we intend to expand our international operations through internal growth and acquisitions. Sales outside of the United States, particularly sales to emerging markets, are subject to other various risks which are not present in sales within the United States that can materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to currency exchange and tax risks as discussed above, these risks include: - - local political and social conditions, including hyperinflationary conditions and political instability in certain countries; - - devaluation of foreign currencies; - - potential imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars and remittance of dividends and payment by foreign subsidiaries; - - potential difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; - - domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and quotas or other trade barriers; - - increased costs for transportation and shipping; - - potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; - - risk of nationalization of private enterprises by foreign governments; - - managing and obtaining support and distributions for local operations; - - potential imposition or increase of restrictions on investment; and - - required compliance with a variety of laws and regulations. We cannot provide any assurances that we will succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies to address the foregoing factors in a timely and effective manner in each location where we do business. Consequently, the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations and financial condition of our international operations. WE MAY INCUR MATERIAL LOSSES AND COSTS AS A RESULT OF PRODUCT LIABILITY AND WARRANTY CLAIMS THAT MAY BE BROUGHT AGAINST US. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our current and formerly manufactured or sold products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Although we have not been required to make any material payments in respect of product liability claims in the past five years, we cannot assure you that we will not experience any material product liability losses in the future or that we will not incur significant costs to defend such claims. In addition, if any of our products are or are alleged to be defective we may be required to participate in a government-required or manufacturer-instituted recall involving such products. In the automotive industry, each vehicle manufacturer has its own policy regarding product recalls and other product liability actions relating to its suppliers. However, as we move up the value pyramid and become more integrally involved in the system design process and assume more of the vehicle system assembly functions, vehicle manufacturers may begin to look to us for contribution when faced with product liability claims. A successful claim brought against us in excess of our available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in a product recall may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot provide any assurances that claims will not be asserted against us with respect to former businesses disposed of by us, whether or not we are legally responsible or entitled to contractual indemnification. OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE MAY BE INADEQUATE TO PROTECT AGAINST THE POTENTIAL HAZARDS INCIDENT TO OUR BUSINESS. We maintain property, business interruption, product liability and casualty insurance coverage, which we believe is in accordance with customary industry practices, but we cannot be fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our business, including losses resulting from war risks or terrorist acts. A catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of our facilities due to accident, labor issues, weather conditions, national disasters or otherwise, whether short- or long-term, could have a material adverse effect on us. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for some of our insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, some types of insurance may become available only for reduced amounts of coverage, if at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that our insurers would not challenge coverage for certain claims. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured or that our insurers disputed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS AND COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials. While we believe that our operations and facilities are being operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental health and safety laws and regulations, the operation of precision metal machining facilities entails risks in these areas. There can be no assurance that we will not incur material costs or liabilities, including substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required in order to comply with evolving environmental and health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. WE ARE CONTROLLED BY GS CAPITAL PARTNERS 2000, L.P. ("GSCP 2000"), OTHER PRIVATE EQUITY FUNDS AFFILIATED WITH GSCP 2000, TRANSPORTATION RESOURCE PARTNERS LP ("TRP") AND OTHER INVESTMENT VEHICLES AFFILIATED WITH TRP, AND THEIR INTERESTS AS EQUITY HOLDERS MAY CONFLICT WITH THE INTERESTS OF OTHER STAKEHOLDERS. GSCP 2000, other private equity funds affiliated with GSCP 2000, TRP, and other investment vehicles affiliated with TRP control, through Parent and Holdings, our voting interests and have the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors, to change our management and to approve any mergers or other extraordinary transactions. The interests of GSCP 2000 and TRP may not in all cases be aligned with the interests of our stakeholders, in particular the holders of our outstanding debt. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 