Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below and throughout this Annual Report are certain risks that our management believes are applicable to our business and the industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. There are also risks related to the economy, the industry and the capital markets that affect business generally, and us as well, which have not been described. If any of the described events occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. The Special Litigation Committee’s investigation, the SEC’s investigation and the Derivative Litigation have resulted in significant fees, costs and expenses, diverted management time and resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred significant professional fees, expenses and other costs in connection with the Special Litigation Committee’s investigation, responding to and cooperating with the SEC’s investigation, and in defending against and settling the Derivative Litigation, each of which is described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has incurred approximately $26.6 million in expenses related to these matters (including advancement of legal fees to individuals pursuant to our indemnification obligations). These expenses include approximately $3.0 million in 2007 and approximately $23.6 million in 2008. In addition, our Board of Directors, management and employees have expended a substantial amount of time in connection with these matters, diverting resources and attention that would otherwise have been directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy. We expect to continue to spend additional time and incur additional professional fees, expenses and other costs in responding to and cooperating with the SEC’s investigation. In addition, if the SEC were to conclude that an enforcement action is appropriate as a result of its investigation, we may divert even greater amounts of time from our management, Board of Directors and employees, and incur even greater fees, expenses and costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under Delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements between us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, we have an obligation to advance legal expenses and may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former directors and officers with respect to the SEC investigation. As the Company’s bylaws provide for indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Company’s indemnification obligations of former or current directors and officers who are found to have committed securities violations will remain in effect, to the extent current or future applicable law permits indemnification. We have already exceeded our coverage limits under our directors and officers liability policy for matters relating to the SEC investigation and therefore we will not be reimbursed by our insurers for any remaining related indemnification obligations. We have purchased directors and officers liability insurance. Our directors and officers liability insurance covers events for which payment obligations and the timing of payments are only determined in the future. The insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Under our directors and officers liability insurance policy, we are responsible for the cost of claims up to a self-insured limit. In addition, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business would be harmed if we do not continue successfully to implement our Internet strategy. We use the Internet as our primary vehicle to provide sales leads and database information to our customers. The Internet is widely accepted by businesses worldwide and is a very powerful distribution channel for 10 Table of Contents information. Our Salesgenie, Salesgenie/Lite and other products are now being offered on the Internet on a subscription basis. We have adopted an Internet strategy because we believe that the Internet represents an important and rapidly evolving market for marketing information products and services. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we: • fail to develop products and services that are well suited to the Internet market; • experience difficulties that delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products and services; or • fail to achieve sufficient traffic to our Internet sites to generate significant revenues, or successfully to implement electronic commerce operations. Our markets are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The business and consumer marketing information industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Intense competition could harm us by causing, among other things, price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Our competitors include: Acxiom, Experian, Harte-Hanks Communications, Inc., Dun & Bradstreet, and other companies in research. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants to the business and consumer marketing information industry as a result of the rapid expansion of the Internet, which creates a substantial new channel for distributing business information to the market. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, better name recognition and greater financial resources than we do, which may enable them to implement their business strategies more readily than we can. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Changes in the direct marketing industry and in the industries in which our customers operate may adversely affect our business. Many large companies are reducing their use of direct mail advertising and increasing their use of on-line advertising, including e-mail, search words, and banner advertisements. As a result of this change in the direct marketing industry, such customers are purchasing less data for direct mail applications. In addition, several of our customers operate in industries, in particular the financial and telecommunications industries, that are undergoing consolidation. Such consolidation reduces the number of companies in those industries, and therefore may reduce the number of customers we serve. We are addressing these changes by offering products that integrate our data, data processing, database marketing and e-mail resources, and pursuing industries that are experiencing growth rather than consolidation. We cannot guarantee that the marketplace will accept these new products, or that we will be successful in entering new markets. If we do not gain acceptance for our new products or successfully enter new markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we do not adapt our products and services to respond to changes in technology, they could become obsolete. We provide marketing information and services to our customers in a variety of formats, including printed formats, DVD, and electronic media via the Internet. Advances in information technology may result in changing customer preferences for products and product delivery formats. If we do not successfully adapt our products and services to take advantage of changes in technology and customer preferences, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We must identify customer preferences and develop and offer products to meet their preferences to replace declining revenue from traditional direct marketing products and services. One of our primary growth strategies is to improve our organic growth. We believe that much of our future growth prospects will rest on our ability to identify customer preferences and to continue to expand into newer products and services. For example, key to this is our effort to replace declining revenue from traditional direct marketing products and services with revenue from our on-line Internet subscription services. In the past 2 years we 11 Table of Contents invested approximately $14 million on capital related to Internet technology to develop subscription-based new customer development services for businesses and sales people. We believe delivery of information via the Internet is or will be the preferred method by our customers. If we miss customer preference trends or customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, such as our Internet subscription services, our ability to increase revenues or replace declining revenues of older products will be impaired. Changes in laws and regulations relating to data privacy could adversely affect our business. We engage in direct marketing, as do many of our customers. Certain data and services provided by us are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States as well as those in Canada and the United Kingdom. In addition, growing concerns about individual privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals have led to self-regulation of such practices by the direct marketing industry through guidelines suggested by the Direct Marketing Association and to increased federal and state regulation. There is increasing awareness and concern among the general public regarding marketing and privacy concerns, particularly as it relates to the Internet. This concern is likely to result in new laws and regulations. For example, in 2003 the Federal Trade Commission amended its rules to establish a national “do not call” registry that permits consumers to protect themselves from unsolicited telemarketing telephone calls. Various states also have established similar “do not call” lists. And although “do not call” list regulations do not currently apply to market research phone calls, such as the type performed by us, new legislation or regulation could eliminate the current market research exemption. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations and industry self-regulation has not to date seriously affected our business, financial condition or results of operations. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the collection, management or commercial use of such information may increasingly affect our operations. This could result in substantial regulatory compliance or litigation expense or a loss of revenue. Our strategy to continue to grow through strategic acquisitions may result in unsuccessful integration of future acquired businesses and harm to our financial results. We have been an acquisitive company, growing through more than 35 strategic acquisitions in the last eleven years. We believe these acquisitions have enabled us to acquire the requisite critical mass to compete over the long term in the database, direct marketing, e-mail marketing and market research industries. Each of these acquisitions presented challenges in financing the purchase and integrating the acquired businesses on a profitable basis. We intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions when presented with appropriate opportunities. Any acquisitions we undertake increases the risks of unsuccessful integration of the acquired businesses, increasing the potential of harm to our financial results from this growth strategy. Future acquisitions may also harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders’ equity and create other financial difficulties for us. We may in the future pursue acquisitions that we believe could provide us with new technologies, products or service offerings, or enable us to obtain other competitive advantages. Acquisitions by us may involve some or all of the following financial risks: • use of significant amounts of cash; • potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; • incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and • future impairment charges related to diminished fair value of businesses acquired as compared to the price we pay for them. We may not be successful in overcoming the risks described above or any other problems associated with future acquisitions. Any of these risks and problems could materially harm our business, prospects and financial 12 Table of Contents condition. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that any companies we may acquire will achieve anticipated revenues or operating results. A failure in the integrity of our database could harm our brand and result in a loss of sales and an increase in legal claims. The reliability of our products and services is dependent upon the integrity of the data in our databases. We have in the past been subject to customer and third-party complaints and lawsuits regarding our data, which have occasionally been resolved by the payment of money damages. A failure in the integrity of our database could harm us by exposing us to customer or third-party claims or by causing a loss of customer confidence in our products and services. We also license proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by the business partners to whom we grant non-exclusive licenses and by customers, they may take actions that could materially and adversely affect the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation. In addition, it cannot be assured that these licensees and customers will take the same steps we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our data solutions or technologies. We may lose key business assets, including loss of data center capacity or the interruption of telecommunications links, the Internet, or power sources, which could significantly impede our ability to operate our business. Our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of third-party service providers to whom we have outsourced several critical functions, to protect data centers and related technology against damage from hardware failure, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, impacts of terrorism, breaches in security (such as the actions of computer hackers), natural disasters, or other disasters. The on-line services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunications providers. In addition, we generate a significant amount of our revenue through telesales centers and websites that we utilize in the acquisition of new customers, fulfillment of solutions and services and responding to customer inquiries. We may not have sufficient redundant operations to cover a loss or failure in all of these areas in a timely manner. Any damage to our data centers, failure of our telecommunications links or inability to access these telesales centers or websites could cause interruptions in operations that materially adversely affect our ability to meet customers’ requirements, resulting in decreased revenue, operating income and earnings per share. Our ability to increase our revenues will depend in part on the success of the expansion of our international business. We have begun expanding internationally, and plan to expand in high growth, emerging international markets. We have focused on upgrading our international business databases, expanding our own compilation efforts and aggressively pursuing markets in the Asia-Pacific region. International operations subject us to additional risks and challenges, including: • the need to develop new customer relationships; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • changes in and differences between domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; • price controls; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • lower per capita Internet usage and lack of appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage; • political and economic instability; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • tariffs and other trade barriers. 13 Table of Contents During 2008, we received approximately $69 million of our revenues from our international operations. If we do not implement the expansion of our international business successfully, these international revenues may not grow meaningfully, thereby impairing our ability to increase our overall revenues. Some of the above factors may cause our international costs to exceed our domestic costs of doing business. Failure to adequately address these risks could decrease our profitability and operating results. Our contracts with the U.S. federal government grant the government rights that are typically not found in commercial contracts and that could adversely affect our revenues and income. We have approximately 200 active contracts and task orders with the U.S. federal government. There are inherent risks in contracting with the U.S. federal government which could have an adverse effect on our business. All contracts with the U.S. federal government contain provisions, and/or are subject to laws and regulations, that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in our commercial contracts, including rights that allow the government to: • claim rights in and ownership of products and systems that we produce; • adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits completed by its agencies; • suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. federal government; and • release information obtained from us in response to a Freedom of Information Act request. Government contractors are often subject to enhanced scrutiny with respect to corporate governance and other measures of business conduct. Matters arising from the Derivative Litigation and the SEC investigation may adversely effect the Company’s reputation in this regard, which in turn could jeopardize our government-contracting business. The U.S. federal government has the right to terminate its contracts with us at any time and such terminations could adversely affect our revenues and income. The U.S. federal government has the right to terminate its contracts with us at any time. If the U.S. federal government terminates a contract, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed before the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Additionally, most of our backlog could be reduced by any modification or termination of contracts that we have with the U.S. federal government or, in cases where we are a subcontractor, contracts that our prime contractors have with the U.S. federal government. As a contractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to restrictions and compliance requirements that could divert the attention of our management, drain our resources and/or result in additional costs, fines or other penalties. As a contractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to various laws and regulations that are more restrictive than those applicable to non-government contractors. We are required to obtain and maintain material governmental authorizations and approvals to conduct our business as it is currently conducted. New or more stringent laws or governmental regulations concerning government contracts could hurt our business by limiting our flexibility and by potentially causing us to incur additional expenses. We also must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our U.S. federal government clients and may result in added costs for our business. For example, we are required to comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulations and all supplements, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government contracts, and the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. If 14 Table of Contents a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including: • termination of contracts; • forfeiture of profits; • suspension of payments; • fines; and • suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. Any of the sanctions could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results. Our government contracts are subject to audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. federal government, which could hurt our operating results. Our government contracts are subject to audits and reviews by the U.S. federal government of our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Responding to governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert the attention of our management. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies we have acquired or may acquire, could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues because any costs determined by the government to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and revenues we have already recognized may need to be refunded. If a U.S. federal government audit results in allegations of improper or illegal activities by us or our employees and if we are unable to successfully defend against those allegations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, and / or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us regardless of the merits of any such allegation. In addition, the U.S. federal government may conduct non-audit reviews on a majority of our government contracts, which in turn could lead to full audit reviews by the government. We are leveraged. If we are unable to service our debt as it becomes due or if we violate the covenants contained in our existing Credit Facility, our business would be harmed. As of December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of approximately $300.6 million. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as security under the terms of our existing Credit Facility. Our ability to pay principal and interest on the indebtedness under the Credit Facility and our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance. Our performance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Certain of these factors are beyond our control. The future availability of revolving credit under the Credit Facility will depend on, among other things, our ability to meet certain specified financial ratios and maintenance tests. We expect that our operating cash flow should be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, to make necessary capital expenditures and to service our debt requirements as they become due. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, however, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness (including the Credit Facility) or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to implement any such measures or obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable or satisfactory to us, if at all. The Credit Facility contains several financial covenants with which we must comply. If our assets are determined to be impaired to a sufficient degree, or if our operating performance deteriorates significantly, we might be in default under the Credit Facility. There is no assurance that in such a situation we would be able to amend the Credit Facility or be able to secure alternate financing. In 2008, we asked and received waivers of events of default from the lenders because we were delayed in filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and our 2007 first and second quarter 15 Table of Contents Form 10-Qs. The covenants in the Credit Facility require us to be current on our SEC filings and deliver certain financial statements to the lenders. If we are unable to do so in the future, there is no assurance that we can amend the Credit Facility to avoid having to meet this requirement or receive a waiver from lenders, and the Credit Facility may become immediately due and payable. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our current revolving credit facility or obtain future short-term or long-term lending. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, and in recent months the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. In particular, the cost and availability of funding for many companies has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These forces reached unprecedented levels in September and October 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. These events have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial and credit markets. There can be no assurance that recent government responses to the disruptions in the financial and credit markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We continue to maintain the Amended 2006 Credit Facility. However, to the extent our business requires us to access the credit markets in the future and we are not able to do so, including in the event that the lenders to the Amended 2006 Credit Facility cease to lend to us, or cease to be capable of lending, for any reason, we could experience a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and ability to borrow additional funds. This might impair our ability to obtain sufficient funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our interest expense under our existing credit facility. At December 31, 2008, the term loan of the Amended 2006 Credit Facility had a balance of $170.5 million, bearing an average interest rate of 3.46%. The revolving line of credit had a balance of $86.5 million, bearing an interest rate of 4.81%, and $88.5 million was available under the revolving line of credit. Substantially all of the assets of the Company are pledged as security under the terms of the Amended 2006 Credit Facility. The Amended 2006 Credit Facility provides for grid-based interest pricing based upon our consolidated total leverage ratio. Interest rates for use of the revolving line of credit range from base rate plus 0.25% to 1.00% for base rate loans and LIBOR plus 1.25% to 2.00% for Eurodollar rate loans. Interest rates for the term loan range from base rate plus 0.75% to 1.00% for base rate loans and LIBOR plus 1.75% to 2.00% for Eurodollar rate loans. Subject to certain limitations set forth in the credit agreement, we may designate borrowings under the Amended 2006 Credit Facility as base rate loans or Eurodollar loans. In recent months, LIBOR rates have experienced unprecedented short-term volatility due to disruptions occurring in global financial and credit markets. During this period, LIBOR rates have experienced substantial short-term increases. Increases in LIBOR rates increase the interest expense that we incur under the Amended 2006 Credit Facility. Because nearly all our debts are at variable rates, any significant changes to interest rates may adversely impact our earnings and cash flow. (See Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Form 10-K.) Further, the Company has executed four amendments to the Amended 2006 Credit Facility. In the current market environment, financial institutions are using the request for an amendment or waiver as an opening to renegotiate terms, including pricing, to reflect what the institutions consider to be market conditions. If the Company finds it necessary to seek an amendment or waiver, we may be required to consent to higher pricing margins and/or more restrictive financial or operating covenants in order to obtain approval of the amendment or waiver. Such amended terms could have an adverse effect on our financial or operational performance. 16 Table of Contents Adverse changes in general economic or credit market conditions in any of the countries in which we do significant business could adversely impact our operating results. The direction and strength of the U.S. and global economy has recently been increasingly uncertain due to a turndown in the economy and difficulties in the credit markets. If economic growth in the United States and other countries is slowed significantly, or if the credit markets continue to be difficult to access, our customers could experience significant disruptions to their businesses and operations which, in turn, could negatively impact our business operations and financial performance. The accounting treatment of goodwill and other identified intangibles could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting units are the Company’s reporting segments. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to earnings. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the value of those assets. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Deferred income taxes represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate capital gains. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 