Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below and throughout this report are certain risks that the Company’s management believes are applicable to our business and the industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. There are also risks within the economy, the industry and the capital markets that affect business generally, and the Company as well, which have not been described. If any of the described events occur, the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. Our business would be harmed if we do not continue to successfully implement our Internet strategy. We use the Internet as our primary vehicle to provide sales leads and database information to our customers. The Internet is widely accepted by businesses all over the world. It is a very fluid distribution channel for information. The Company has always used the cutting edge technology to deliver its information to its customers. infoUSA was the first database company to offer its products on magnetic media, CD, DVD and also the Internet. Our Salesgenie, SalesLeadsUSA and other products are now being offered on the Internet on a subscription basis. We cannot guarantee that in the future that the Internet will be as prevalent as it is now, but we believe this will be the primary method of delivery of information. 12 Table of Contents We have adopted an Internet strategy because we believe that the Internet represents an important and rapidly evolving market for marketing information products and services. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we: • Fail to develop products and services that are well suited to the Internet market; • Experience difficulties that delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products and services; or • Fail to achieve sufficient traffic to our Internet sites to generate significant revenues, or to successfully implement electronic commerce operations. Our markets are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The business and consumer marketing information industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Intense competition could harm us by causing, among other things, price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Our competition includes: Acxiom, Experian (a subsidiary of Great Universal Stores, P.L.C. (“GUS”)), Equifax, Harte-Hanks Communications, Inc. and Dun & Bradstreet©. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants to the business and consumer marketing information industry as a result of the rapid expansion of the Internet, which creates a substantial new channel for distributing business information to the market. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, better name recognition and greater financial resources than we do, which may enable them to implement their business strategies more readily than we can. Changes in the direct marketing industry and in the industries in which our customers operate may adversely affect our business. Many large companies are reducing their use of direct mail advertising and increasing their use of on-line advertising, including e-mail, search words, and banner advertisements. As a result of this change in the direct marketing industry, such customers are purchasing less data for direct mail applications. In addition, several of our customers operate in industries, in particular the financial and telecommunications industries, that are undergoing consolidation. Such consolidation reduces the number of companies in those industries, and therefore may reduce the number of customers we serve. We are addressing these changes by offering products that integrate our data, data processing, database marketing and e-mail resources, and pursuing industries that are experiencing growth rather than consolidation. We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept these new products, or that we will be successful in entering new markets. If we do not gain acceptance for our new products or successfully enter new markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We are leveraged. If we are unable to service our debt as it becomes due, our business would be harmed. As of December 31, 2005, we had total indebtedness of approximately $148.0 million. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as security under the terms of the Credit Facility. Our ability to pay principal and interest on the indebtedness under the Credit Facility and our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance. Our performance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Certain of these factors are beyond our control. The future availability of revolving credit under the Credit Facility will depend on, among other things, our ability to meet certain specified financial ratios and maintenance tests. We expect that our operating cash flow should be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, to make necessary capital expenditures and to service our debt requirements as they become due. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, however, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness (including the Credit Facility) or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to implement any such measures or obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable or satisfactory to us, if at all. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our operating results may result in decreases in the market price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. As a result, unexpected changes in revenue levels may have a disproportionate effect on operating performance in any given period. In some period or periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Our failure to meet analyst or investor expectations could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. If we do not adapt our products and services to respond to changes in technology, they could become obsolete. We provide marketing information and services to our customers in a variety of formats, including printed formats, electronic formats such as CD-Rom and DVD, and over the Internet. Advances in information technology may result in changing customer preferences for products and product delivery formats. If we do not successfully adapt our products and services to take advantage of changes in technology and customer preferences, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services, and if the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may decline. To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We believe much of our future growth prospects will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer products and services. Products and services that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development. We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept these products. If our current or potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, our ability to increase revenues will be impaired. Changes in laws and regulations relating to data privacy could adversely affect our business. We engage in direct marketing, as do many of our customers. Certain data and services provided by us are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States as well as those in Canada and the United Kingdom. For instance, some of the data and services that we provide are subject to regulation under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, which regulates the use of consumer credit information, and to a lesser extent, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which regulates the use of non-public personal information. We are also subject to the United Kingdom’s Data Protection Act of 1998, which became fully effective on October 24, 2001 and regulates the manner in which we can use third-party data, and recent regulatory limitations relating to use of the Electoral Roll, one of our key data sources in the United Kingdom. In addition, growing concerns about individual privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals have led to self-regulation of such practices by the direct marketing industry through guidelines suggested by the Direct Marketing Association and to increased federal and state regulation. There is increasing awareness and concern among the general public regarding marketing and privacy concerns, particularly as it relates to the Internet. This concern is likely to result in new laws and regulations. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations and industry self-regulation has not to date seriously affected our business, financial condition or results of operations. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the collection, management or commercial use of such information may increasingly affect our operations. This could result in substantial regulatory compliance or litigation expense or a loss of revenue. 14 Table of Contents Our business would be harmed if we do not successfully integrate future acquisitions. Our business strategy includes continued growth through acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses. We have made over 25 acquisitions since 1996 and completed the integration of these acquisitions into our existing business by the end of 2004, with the exception of the companies recently acquired during 2005. We continue to evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and intend to pursue opportunities that we believe fit our business strategy. Acquisitions of companies, products or technologies may result in the diversion of management’s time and attention from day-to-day operations of our business and may entail numerous other risks, including difficulties in assimilating and integrating acquired operations, databases, products, corporate cultures and personnel, potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses, difficulties in applying our internal controls to acquired businesses, and particular problems, liabilities or contingencies related to the businesses being acquired. To the extent our efforts to integrate future acquisitions fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 