ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following is a summary of certain risks we face in our business. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the SEC. 6 Risks Related to Our Business We will need additional capital in the future, or we will need to scale back operations. We will need capital in the future, and if it is not available on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and we cannot generate enough cash through existing operations, we may have to scale back operations and/or curtail expansion plans. As of June 30, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2,441,000. We have taken steps during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 to conserve our capital resources including a reduction of our selling, general and administrative expenses by approximately $881,000 as compared to the prior fiscal year. We have also reduced the current portion of our debt burden by completing a recapitalization in March 2006, including canceling certain debt obligations through equity conversion and debt settlement agreements. We raised additional capital several times during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 by issuing an aggregate initial principal amount of $8,000,000 in junior secured convertible notes to Lloyd I. Miller, III. Additional financing transactions may be necessary if we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations through revenue growth and overhead reduction to meet our requirements. We are continuing our financial and operational restructuring initiatives and will continue to implement our strategic business plan. Although we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to sustain the business through July 1, 2008, there is no assurance that unforeseen circumstances will not have a material affect on our business that could require us to raise additional capital or take other measures to sustain operations in the event outside sources of capital are not available. We have not secured any commitments for new financing at this time nor can we provide any assurance that new capital, if needed, will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. We have a history of operating losses and may not be able to achieve long-term profitability. Since our inception in May 1989, we have incurred substantial operating losses. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, we generated a net loss of approximately $11,116,000. At June 30, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $137,024,000. There can be no assurance that our revenues will exceed our operating expenses and cost of revenues in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the IT and services markets. The IT products and related services markets are highly competitive and are served by numerous international, national and local firms. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively in these markets. Market participants include systems consulting and integration firms, including national accounting firms and related entities, the internal information systems groups of our prospective clients, professional services companies, hardware and application software vendors, and divisions of both large integrated technology companies and outsourcing companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater revenues and have greater name recognition than we do. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into the IT products and related services markets, and we have faced, and expect to continue to face, additional competition from new entrants into the IT products and related services markets. We may not be able to identify, acquire or integrate new businesses, which could adversely impact our business. A component of our business strategy is to expand our presence in new or existing markets by acquiring additional businesses. Although we completed several acquisitions during our fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, acquire or profitably manage additional businesses or integrate successfully any acquired businesses without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including the diversion of management’s attention, failure to retain key personnel, increased general and administrative 7 expenses, client dissatisfaction or performance problems with an acquired firm, assumption of unknown liabilities, and other unanticipated events or circumstances. Acquisitions may require large one-time charges and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation and deferred compensation charges, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to deferred compensation and certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could negatively impact out results of operations. In addition, we may record goodwill in connection with an acquisition and incur goodwill impairment charges in the future. Any of these charges could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. Alternatively, we may issue equity or convertible debt securities in connection with an acquisition. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product margins are subject to competitive pricing pressures. Our product margins are subject to competitive pricing pressures and fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on the mix of products we provide. We believe that current product margins are more reflective of the present marketplace and likely to continue at or near present levels into the foreseeable future. We intend to meet the challenges of aggressive price reductions and discount pricing by certain product suppliers by focusing our offerings around relatively higher margin practice areas, including security solutions, VOIP, and access infrastructure. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to improve profit margins and compete profitably in all areas, given the intense competition that exists in the IT industry. We depend on a small number of vendors to supply the IT products that we sell and the loss of, or a material change in, our business relationship with a major supplier could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Product sales depend on our ability to maintain reseller status with several major technology manufacturers, including Hewlett Packard, Citrix, McAfee, Cisco, Microsoft and Novell. We are also highly dependent on distributors such as Ingram Micro, GE Access, and Synnex for manufactured products. Although we are currently an authorized reseller of various products, the loss of authorization could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations. Our vendor agreements are generally terminable on 30 to 90 days’ notice, or immediately upon the occurrence of certain events, and are subject to periodic renewal. We rely upon the manufacturers’ and distributors’ supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, and any supply shortages or delays could cause us to be unable to fulfill orders on a timely basis, which, in turn, could harm our business, financial position and operating results. Our ability to obtain particular products in the required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is critical to our success. In most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with our third-party suppliers. We occasionally experience a supply shortage of certain products as a result of strong demand or problems experienced by our third-party suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of those products may increase, or the products may not be available at all. In addition, our third-party suppliers may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution business, through other distributors, their own dealer networks, or directly to our customers. Accordingly, if we are not able to secure and maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill our customer orders on a timely basis, our business, financial position and operating results may be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to attract and retain professional staff necessary for existing and future projects. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and motivate skilled employees, particularly senior technical personnel. There is significant competition for employees 8 with the skills required to perform the services we offer. In particular, qualified senior technical and professional staff are in great demand and competition for such persons is likely to increase. If we are unable to attract, retain and train skilled employees, it could impair our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing projects and to bid for or obtain new projects, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the failure of our employees to achieve expected levels of performance could adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that a sufficient number of skilled employees will continue to be available, or that we will be successful in training, retaining and motivating current or future employees. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of a number of significant employees, the loss of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our success depends in large part upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees, including certain sales, consulting and technical personnel. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Casper Zublin, Jr., our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Zublin and other significant employees who have not entered into employment agreements may terminate their employment at any time. The loss of the services of any significant employee could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if one or more of our significant employees resigns to join a competitor or to form a competing company, the loss of such personnel and any resulting loss of existing or potential clients to any such competitor could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on contracts with government agencies, which, if terminated or reduced, would have a material adverse effect on our business. A large percentage of our revenues are derived from sales to government agencies. Such government agencies may be subject to budget cuts or budgetary constraints or a reduction or discontinuation of funding. A significant reduction in funds available for government agencies to purchase professional services and related products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue and operating results may fluctuate in the future. Our operating results have fluctuated and will fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including: · general economic conditions and weakness in information technology spending; · the loss or consolidation of one or more of our significant suppliers or customers; · market acceptance and product life of the products we distribute; · competitive conditions in our industry which may impact our pricing, margins and terms with our suppliers; and · changes in our costs and operating expenses. Although we attempt to control our expense levels, these levels are based, in part, on anticipated revenue. Therefore, we may not be able to control spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall. In addition, we have at times experienced quarter-to-quarter declines in revenue, particularly in the quarters ending in December. We believe these fluctuations in revenue result primarily from the budgeting and purchasing cycles of our customers. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. 9 We may face litigation in the ordinary course of business, which could result in substantial expenses. We are from time to time involved in litigation in the ordinary course of business. We may not be successful in defending these or other claims. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can result in substantial expenses and could divert the efforts of our management. War and terrorist activities could adversely affect our business. The continued threat of terrorism within the United States and acts of war may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. Our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that such disruptions result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, delays in collecting cash, a general decrease in corporate spending on information technology, or our inability to effectively market, manufacture or ship our products. We are unable to predict whether war and the threat of terrorism or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have any long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. We have significant debt service obligations. As of October 5, 2007, the aggregate principal amount owed under our debt instruments was $20.9 million. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; · restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, acquiring new content or exploring other business opportunities; · limit our ability to obtain financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate purposes or acquisitions; · place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund our operations, working capital and capital expenditures, depends on our ability to generate cash in the future, which is subject to general economic, industry, financial, competitive, operating, and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing will depend on, among other things: · our financial condition at the time; · restrictions in our outstanding debt instruments; and · other factors, including the condition of the financial markets. 10 As a result, we may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings or refinancings or other proceeds are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. We may not be able to implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act on a timely basis. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules generally requiring each public company to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a company’s internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal years ending after July 15, 2007. In addition, a company’s independent registered accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008 with respect to management’s report on its assessment of internal controls and June 30, 2009 with respect to the report on internal control from our auditors. We have not yet developed a Section 404 implementation plan. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. How companies should be implementing these new requirements, including the implementation of internal control reforms to comply with Section 404’s requirements, and how independent auditors will apply these requirements and test companies’ internal controls, is still reasonably uncertain. We expect that we may need to hire and/or engage additional personnel and incur incremental costs in order to complete the work required by Section 404. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to complete a Section 404 plan on a timely basis. Additionally, upon completion of a Section 404 plan, we may not be able to conclude that our internal controls are effective, or in the event that we conclude that our internal controls are effective, our independent accountants may disagree with our assessment and may issue a report that is qualified. Any failure to implement new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could negatively affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We may experience difficulties with our financial systems, controls and operations that could harm our financial condition and results of operations Our ability to execute our business plan successfully in a volatile and growing market requires effective management of financial systems and a system of financial processes and controls. Through the quarter ended June 30, 2007, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 and identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. These material weaknesses related to the fact that that our overall financial reporting structure and current staffing levels were not sufficient to support the complexity of our financial reporting requirements. We may lack the expertise we need to apply complex accounting principles relating to our business combinations and equity transactions and have experienced difficulty in applying income tax accounting principles. Although we have taken steps to correct these previous deficiencies, including the hiring of a new Chief Financial Officer, and are currently in compliance with the SEC’s reporting requirements, additional time is still required to test and document our internal and disclosure control processes to ensure their operating effectiveness. In addition, we are still at risk of the loss of key personnel in our finance department. The loss of key personnel in our finance department, or any other conditions that could disrupt our operations in this area, could have a material adverse affect on our ability to communicate critical information to management and our investors, raise capital and/or maintain compliance with our SEC reporting obligations. These circumstances, if they arise, could have a material adverse affect on our business. Growth, to the extent it occurs, is likely to place a considerable strain on our management resources, systems, processes and controls. To address these issues, we will need to continue to improve our financial 11 and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. If we are unable to maintain an adequate level of financial processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis and our business and stock price would be harmed. Risks Related to our Stock A volatile public market for our common stock may impair liquidity and/or return on investment. Any market price for shares of our common stock is likely to be very volatile, and numerous factors beyond our control may have a significant adverse effect. In addition, the stock markets generally have experienced, and continue to experience, extreme price and volume fluctuations which have affected the market price of many small capital companies and which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. The price for our common stock and the volume of shares traded fluctuate. Consequently, persons who invest in our common stock may not be able to use their shares as collateral for loans and may not be able to liquidate at a suitable price in the event of an emergency. In addition, holders may not be able to re-sell their shares, or may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for them. Moreover, our common stock is currently traded on the National Association of Securities Dealer’s “Electronic Bulletin Board.” Consequently, broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell and/or make a market in our common stock. Additionally, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. Trading in our stock over the last 12 months has been limited, so investors may not be able to sell as much stock as they want at prevailing prices. The average daily trading volume in our common stock for the twelve-month period ended June 30, 2007 was approximately 72,000. If limited trading in our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. You may experience dilution in ownership of our shares from the exercise or conversion of options, warrants and convertible securities. There are a significant number of outstanding options, warrants and convertible securities to acquire shares of our common stock and we may grant additional rights in the future. The holders of such options, warrants and convertible securities can be expected to exercise them at a time when our common stock is trading at a price higher than the exercise price of these outstanding options, warrants and convertible securities. If these options or warrants to purchase our common stock are exercised, convertible debt is converted or other equity interests are granted under our 2001, 2005 or 2006 stock option plans, or under other plans or agreements adopted in the future, such equity interests will have a dilutive effect on your ownership of common stock. The existence of such options, warrants, and convertible securities may also adversely affect the terms on which we can obtain additional financing. As of June 30, 2007, we had 58,234,989 shares issued and outstanding. As of such date, we had outstanding options to purchase 11,286,811 shares of our common stock, warrants to purchase approximately 43,936,495 shares of common stock, and approximately $13,216,458 of convertible debt, convertible into 75,522,616 shares of common stock. The principal amount of the convertible debt will continue to increase to the extent we elect not to pay interest as it accrues during the first three years, in which case the principal would increase to approximately $17,590,500, and the number of shares issuable upon conversion would be 100,517,143. We intend to raise capital through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our common stock, or rights to acquire such securities or our common stock. Such other rights to acquire our common stock may be issued at exercise prices or conversion rates that are significantly lower than the price at which you may have paid for our shares. In addition, the shares 12 issuable upon exercise of certain of the warrants and upon conversion of convertible debt may increase subject to anti-dilutive rights, which we granted to certain warrant and debt holders. Lloyd I. Miller, III beneficially owns a majority of our outstanding common stock, which may enable him to control many significant stockholder matters and corporate actions and may prevent a change in control that would otherwise be beneficial to other stockholders. Lloyd I. Miller, III may be deemed to beneficially own a total of 112,833,737 shares of our common stock, or 68.9%, as of June 30, 2007, including shares issuable upon conversion of certain junior secured convertible notes and the exercise of warrants held by Mr. Miller and his affiliates. The foregoing does not take into account the exercise or conversion of other outstanding convertible or exercisable securities of the Company, which would have the effect of reducing the percentage beneficial ownership of Mr. Miller. Because of his high percentage of beneficial ownership, Mr. Miller may be able to control matters requiring the vote of stockholders, including the election of our board of directors and certain other significant corporate actions. This control could delay, defer or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our other stockholders and us. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our stockholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We currently do not plan to declare dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Further, the payment of dividends by us is restricted by our credit facility. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. It is possible that we may have violated Section 5 of the Securities Act. In March 2006, we entered into a note purchase agreement with SACC Partners, L.P. and Lloyd I. Miller, III, or the Senior Lenders, pursuant to which we issued certain senior secured notes in the initial aggregate principal amount of $6.7 million. Under the note purchase agreement, we also issued a junior secured convertible note to Trust A-4—Lloyd I. Miller, or the Junior Lender, in the initial aggregate principal amount of $3.0 million. In June 2006, we issued an additional junior secured convertible note to the Junior Lender in the aggregate principal amount of $1.0 million. Pursuant to our contractual obligation to do so, we filed a registration statement in June 2006 to register for resale, among other shares, the shares of our common stock into which the notes described above may be converted. In September 2006, while the registration statement was still pending and not yet declared effective, we issued an additional junior secured convertible note to the Junior Lender in the initial aggregate principal amount of $3.0 million on the same terms and conditions as were set forth in the other junior notes issued to the Junior Lender. In a comment letter to the registration statement, the SEC notified us that by selling and issuing the third junior note in September 2006 while the registration statement was still pending, we may have violated Section 5 of the Securities Act. If the lenders were to have brought an action to rescind the issuance of the senior or junior notes as a result of the Section 5 violation and prevailed, we would have been required to repurchase the such notes at their original purchase price, plus statutory interest from the date of purchase. However, on February 2, 2007, we obtained waivers and releases from the lenders of any rescission rights and, therefore, we have not and will not record any contingent liability in connection therewith. Although we are not aware of any other pending claims or sanctions against us in connection with the possible Section 5 violation, we still could be subject to enforcement actions by the SEC, resulting 13 in injunctive relief or the imposition of fines. We would vigorously contest any claim that the issuance of the third junior note in the manner described above violated Section 5 of the Securities Act. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 