Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below and throughout this Annual Report are certain risks that our management believes are applicable to our business and the industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. There are also risks related to the economy, the industry and the capital markets that affect business generally, and us as well, which have not been described. If any of the described events occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. The SEC’s investigation and related matters have resulted in significant fees, costs and expenses, diverted management time and resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred significant professional fees, expenses and other costs in connection with responding to and cooperating with the SEC’s investigation, and related matters described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” of this Annual Report. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has incurred approximately $34.4 million in expenses related to these matters (including advancement of legal fees to individuals pursuant to our indemnification obligations). These expenses were approximately $7.8 million, $23.6 million, and $3.0 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. In addition, our Board of Directors, management and employees have expended a substantial amount of time in connection with these matters, diverting resources and attention that would otherwise have been directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy. We expect to continue to spend additional time and incur additional professional fees, expenses and other costs in responding to and cooperating with the SEC’s investigation. In addition, if the SEC were to conclude that an enforcement action is appropriate as a result of its investigation, we may divert even greater amounts of time from our management, Board of Directors and employees, and incur even greater fees, expenses and costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On October 20, 2009, we announced we had reached an agreement in principle to resolve the SEC’s investigation. The SEC Commissioners must still approve the agreement, which was reached with the Denver Regional Office of the SEC, and thus, the terms are not final. Our markets are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The business and consumer marketing information industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Intense competition could harm us by causing, among other things, price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Our competitors include: Acxiom, Experian, Harte-Hanks Communications, Inc., Dun & Bradstreet, email competitors such as Epsilon, Responsys, Exact Target, and eDialog, and a variety of companies in the market research industry. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants to the business and consumer marketing information industry as a result of the rapid expansion of the Internet, which creates a substantial new channel for distributing business information to the market. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, better name recognition and greater financial resources than we do, which may enable them to implement their business strategies more readily than we can. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Changes in the direct marketing industry and in the industries in which our customers operate may adversely affect our business. Many large companies are reducing their use of direct mail advertising and increasing their use of on-line advertising, including e-mail, search words, and banner advertisements. As a result of this change in the direct marketing industry, such customers are purchasing less data for direct mail applications. In addition, several of our customers operate in industries, in particular the financial and telecommunications industries, that are undergoing consolidation. Such consolidation reduces the number of companies in those industries, and therefore may reduce the number of customers we serve. We are addressing these changes by offering products that integrate our data, data processing, database marketing and e-mail resources, and pursuing industries that are experiencing growth rather than consolidation. We cannot guarantee that the marketplace will accept these new products, or that we will be successful in entering new markets. If we do not gain acceptance for our new products or successfully enter new markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents If we do not adapt our products and services to respond to changes in technology, they could become obsolete. We provide marketing information and services to our customers in a variety of formats, including printed formats, DVD, and electronic media via the Internet. Advances in information technology may result in changing customer preferences for products and product delivery formats. If we do not successfully adapt our products and services to take advantage of changes in technology and customer preferences, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We must identify customer preferences and develop and offer products to meet their preferences to replace declining revenue from traditional direct marketing products and services. One of our primary growth strategies is to improve our organic growth. We believe that much of our future growth prospects will rest on our ability to identify customer preferences and to continue to expand into newer products and services. For example, key to this is our effort to replace declining revenue from traditional direct marketing products and services with revenue from our on-line Internet subscription services. In the past three years we invested approximately $18.8 million on capital related to Internet technology to develop subscription-based new customer development services for businesses and sales people. We believe delivery of information via the Internet is or will be the preferred method by our customers. If we fail to recognize customer preference trends or customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, such as our Internet subscription services, our ability to increase revenues or replace declining revenues of older products will be impaired. Changes in laws and regulations relating to data privacy could adversely affect our business. We engage in direct marketing, as do many of our customers. Certain data and services provided by us are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States, as well as those in Canada and the United Kingdom. In addition, growing concerns about individual privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals have led to self-regulation of such practices by the direct marketing industry through guidelines suggested by the Direct Marketing Association and to increased federal and state regulation. There is increasing awareness and concern among the general public regarding marketing and privacy concerns, particularly as it relates to the Internet. This concern is likely to result in new laws and regulations. For example, in 2003 the Federal Trade Commission amended its rules to establish a national “do not call” registry that permits consumers to protect themselves from unsolicited telemarketing telephone calls. Various states also have established similar “do not call” lists. And although “do not call” list regulations do not currently apply to market research phone calls, such as the type performed by us, new legislation or regulation could eliminate the current market research exemption. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations and industry self-regulation has not to date seriously affected our business, financial condition or results of operations. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the collection, management or commercial use of such information may increasingly affect our operations. This could result in substantial regulatory compliance or litigation expense or a loss of revenue. Strategic acquisitions and failure to successfully integrate our business units and rebrand the Company to our customers may negatively impact our financial results. We have been an acquisitive company, growing through more than 35 strategic acquisitions in the last twelve years. Each of these acquisitions presented challenges in financing the purchase and integrating the acquired businesses on a profitable basis. We may pursue strategic acquisitions when presented with appropriate opportunities. Any acquisition we undertake increases the risks of unsuccessful integration of the acquired business, increasing the potential of harm to our financial results from this growth strategy. Failure to strategically consolidate and merge our existing business units may prevent us from achieving our planned cost savings initiatives. 10 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may also harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders’ equity and create other financial difficulties for us. We may in the future pursue acquisitions that we believe could provide us with new technologies, products or service offerings, or enable us to obtain other competitive advantages. Acquisitions by us may involve some or all of the following financial risks: • use of significant amounts of cash; • potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; • incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and • future impairment charges related to diminished fair value of businesses acquired as compared to the price we pay for them. We may not be successful in overcoming the risks described above or any other problems associated with future acquisitions. Any of these risks and problems could materially harm our business, prospects and financial condition. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that any companies we may acquire will achieve anticipated revenues or operating results. A failure in the integrity of our database could harm our brand and result in a loss of sales and an increase in legal claims. The reliability of our products and services is dependent upon the integrity of the data in our databases. We have in the past been subject to customer and third-party complaints and lawsuits regarding our data, which have occasionally been resolved by the payment of money damages. A failure in the integrity of our database could harm us by exposing us to customer or third-party claims or by causing a loss of customer confidence in our products and services. We also license proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by customers and by the business partners to whom we grant non-exclusive licenses, they may take actions that could materially and adversely affect the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation. In addition, it cannot be assured that these licensees and customers will take the same steps we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our data solutions or technologies. We may lose key business assets, including loss of data center capacity or the interruption of telecommunications links, the Internet, or power sources, which could significantly impede our ability to operate our business. Our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of third-party service providers to whom we have outsourced several critical functions, to protect data centers and related technology against damage from hardware failure, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, impacts of terrorism, breaches in security (such as the actions of computer hackers), natural disasters, or other disasters. The on-line services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunications providers. In addition, we generate a significant amount of our revenue through telesales centers and websites that we utilize in the acquisition of new customers, fulfillment of solutions and services and responding to customer inquiries. We may not have sufficient redundant operations to cover a loss or failure in all of these areas in a timely manner. Any damage to our data centers, failure of our telecommunications links or inability to access these telesales centers or websites could cause interruptions in operations that materially adversely affect our ability to meet customers’ requirements, resulting in decreased revenue, operating income and earnings per share. If we discover a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. As a result, investors could lose confidence in our reported results which could have a negative effect on the trading of our securities. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports being free of material misstatement. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with 11 Table of Contents respect to our financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading of our securities. As we continue to modify our business processes to achieve our strategic consolidations, we may have difficulties in maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting. Management determined that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2009 following remedial actions completed which corrected the reported material weakness at December 31, 2008. Although we determined that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. Changes in accounting standards may negatively affect our reported earnings and operating results. Generally accepted accounting principles are often highly complex, involve significant management judgments and estimates, and are subject to interpretation in their application. Changes in these accounting rules and standards or their interpretation could significantly negatively change our reported earnings and operating income. See further discussion on the items we are currently assessing under Recent Accounting Pronouncements in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Annual Report. The expansion of our international business involves special risks. We have begun expanding internationally, and plan to expand in high growth, emerging international markets. We have focused on upgrading our international business databases, expanding our own compilation efforts and aggressively pursuing markets in the Asia-Pacific region. International operations subject us to additional risks and challenges, including: • the need to develop new customer relationships; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • changes in and differences between domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; • price controls; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially additional tax complexities; • lower per capita Internet usage and lack of appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage; • political and economic instability; • risks of sanctions under the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and foreign anti-bribery laws from employees or agents violating our policies mandating compliance with such laws; • additional legal risks from operating internationally; • foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls, such as devaluation of foreign currencies and other economic problems; and • tariffs and other trade barriers. During 2009, we received approximately $65.0 million, or 13%, of our revenues from our international operations. If we do not implement the expansion of our international business successfully, these international revenues may not grow meaningfully, thereby impairing our ability to increase our overall revenues. Some of the above factors may cause our international costs to exceed our domestic costs of doing business. Failure to adequately address these risks could decrease our profitability and operating results. 12 Table of Contents We are leveraged. If we are unable to service our debt as it becomes due or if we violate the covenants contained in our existing Credit Facility, our business would be harmed. As of December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of approximately $181.7 million. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as security under the terms of our existing Credit Facility. Our ability to pay principal and interest on the indebtedness under the Credit Facility and our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance. Our performance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Certain of these factors are beyond our control. The future availability of revolving credit under the Credit Facility will depend on, among other things, our ability to meet certain specified financial ratios and maintenance tests. We expect that our operating cash flow should be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, to make necessary capital expenditures and to service our debt requirements as they become due. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, however, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness (including the Credit Facility) or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to implement any such measures or obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable or satisfactory to us, if at all. In 2008, we asked and received waivers of events of default from the lenders because we were delayed in filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and our 2008 first and second quarter Form 10-Qs. The covenants in the Credit Facility require us to be current on our SEC filings and deliver certain financial statements to the lenders. If we are unable to do so in the future, there is no assurance that we can amend the Credit Facility to avoid having to meet this requirement or receive a waiver from lenders, and the Credit Facility may become immediately due and payable. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to draw on our current revolving credit facility or obtain future short-term or long-term lending. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. In particular, the cost and availability of funding for many companies has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. These forces resulted in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. These events have significantly diminished overall confidence in the financial and credit markets. There can be no assurance that recent government responses to the disruptions in the financial and credit markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. We continue to maintain the Amended 2006 Credit Facility. However, to the extent our business requires us to access the credit markets in the future and we are not able to do so, including in the event that the lenders to the Amended 2006 Credit Facility cease to lend to us, or cease to be capable of lending, for any reason, we could experience a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and ability to borrow additional funds. This might impair our ability to obtain sufficient funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. The conditions of the U.S. and international capital and credit markets may adversely affect our interest expense under our existing credit facility. At December 31, 2009, the term loan of the Amended 2006 Credit Facility had a balance of $70.5 million, bearing an average interest rate of 2.01%. The revolving line of credit had a balance of $68.5 million, bearing an interest rate of 2.5%, and $106.5 million was available under the revolving line of credit. The Amended 2006 Credit Facility provides for grid-based interest pricing based upon our consolidated total leverage ratio. Interest rates for use of the revolving line of credit range from base rate plus 0.25% to 1.00% for base rate loans and LIBOR plus 1.25% to 2.00% for Eurodollar rate loans. Interest rates for the term loan range from base rate plus 0.75% to 1.00% for base rate loans and LIBOR plus 1.75% to 2.00% for Eurodollar rate loans. Subject to certain limitations set forth in the credit agreement, we may designate borrowings under the Amended 2006 Credit Facility as base rate loans or Eurodollar loans. 13 Table of Contents LIBOR rates have experienced short-term volatility due to disruptions occurring in global financial and credit markets. Increases in LIBOR rates increase the interest expense that we incur under the Amended 2006 Credit Facility. Because nearly all our debts are at variable rates, any significant changes to interest rates may adversely impact our earnings and cash flow. See Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in this Annual Report. In addition, if we refinance our debt, we may experience an increase in interest rates due to current market conditions. Further, the Company has executed six amendments to the Amended 2006 Credit Facility. In the current market environment, financial institutions are using the request for an amendment or waiver as an opening to renegotiate terms, including pricing, to reflect what the institutions consider to be market conditions. If the Company finds it necessary to seek an amendment or waiver, we may be required to consent to higher pricing margins and/or more restrictive financial or operating covenants in order to obtain approval of the amendment or waiver. Such amended terms could have an adverse effect on our financial or operational performance. Adverse changes in general economic or credit market conditions in any of the countries in which we do significant business could adversely impact our operating results. The direction and strength of the U.S. and global economy has been uncertain due to a turndown in the economy and difficulties in the credit markets. If economic growth in the United States and other countries is slowed significantly, or if the credit markets continue to be difficult to access, our customers could experience significant disruptions to their businesses and operations which, in turn, could negatively impact our business operations and financial performance. The accounting treatment of goodwill, other identified intangibles and tax valuation allowances could result in future asset impairments, which would be recorded as operating losses. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. The reporting units are the Company’s operating segments. A change in our reporting units, as a result of merging business units or other reasons, will trigger additional impairment testing. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. If it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, the Company must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to earnings. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Long-lived assets and other intangible assets require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the value of those assets. Such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Deferred income taxes represent the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. Factors in management’s determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future income. If based on available information, it is more likely than not that deferred income tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 