Item 1A. Risk Factors Described below and throughout this Annual Report are certain risks that our management believes are applicable to our business and the industry in which we operate. There may be additional risks that are not presently material or known. There are also risks related to the economy, the industry and the capital markets that affect business generally, and us as well, which have not been described. If any of the described events occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or access to the capital markets could be materially adversely affected. Our failure to timely file our Exchange Act reports with the SEC could jeopardize our listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, could reduce the liquidity of our common stock and could lead to a drop in the price of our common stock if our shares are suspended from trading or delisted. Due to the investigation of the Special Litigation Committee, which is described in greater detail in Item 3 under the heading “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report, we were unable to timely file our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the “2007 Form 10-K”) and our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008 (the “First Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q”). Although we plan to make every effort to file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008 (the “Second Quarter Form 10-Q”) by the SEC’s filing extension deadline of August 18, 2008, we may not be able to do so because, to date, our attention has been focused on completing and filing the 2007 Form 10-K and the First Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q. If we are unable to file the Second Quarter Form 10-Q by the SEC’s filing deadline, the NASDAQ Listing Department will likely notify us pursuant to Rule 4804(a) of the NASDAQ Manual (the “Manual”) that we have failed to comply with Rule 4350(b)(1)(A) of the Manual and that our shares would be delisted. We plan to request a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel and make a request for a conditional listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market until we are able to file the Second Quarter Form 10-Q. If we are unable to satisfy the NASDAQ listing requirements, the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel may delist our shares. The trading suspension or delisting of our shares would likely reduce the liquidity of our common stock and could lead to a drop in the market price of our common stock. Our failure to timely prepare and file our Exchange Act reports with the SEC could result in the acceleration of amounts outstanding under our existing Credit Facility. Failure to timely file our Exchange Act reports with the SEC constitutes an event of default under our existing credit facility entered into in February 2006 with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the “Credit Facility”). As a result of the delay in filing our 2007 Form 10-K and First Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q, we entered into two amendments and waivers of default to our Credit Facility in March and June of 2008. These agreements (i) extended the time period for filing our 2007 Form 10-K, First Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q and Second Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q with the SEC and the delivery of our financial information to the lenders and (ii) granted us waivers of the event of default triggered by the delay in our SEC filings. The most recent amendment to the Credit Facility, which was entered into on June 27, 2008, extended the deadlines by which we must file the 2007 Form 10-K and the First Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q to August 15, 2008, and the Second Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q to August 29, 2008. The filing deadlines set forth in the amendment to the Credit Facility are later than the SEC’s filing deadlines for these Exchange Act reports. In the event we are unable to file our Exchange Act reports with the SEC and furnish the lenders with all of the financial information required under the amended Credit Facility by the new deadlines, the lenders under the Credit Facility could, among other things, agree to a further extension of the deadlines for the Exchange Act reports, exercise their right to accelerate the payment of all amounts then outstanding under the Credit Facility, enforce the security interests they hold in our assets or pursue further modifications with respect to the Credit Facility. We can make no assurances that there will be any future extensions of the time period for filing our Exchange Act reports with the SEC or furnishing required financial information to the lenders or that there will be a further waiver of the related event of default. 12 Table of Contents We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and expect to incur substantial additional costs to address these control deficiencies and in connection with our ongoing efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to include a report with each Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. As discussed in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report, our management has conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and has identified several material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. A detailed description of the material weaknesses is provided in Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures” of this Annual Report. Due to these material weaknesses, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. We have engaged in, and continue to engage in, substantial time and efforts to address the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and expect to continue to engage in substantial time and efforts to address the control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or plan to take will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate these material weaknesses. Our inability to remedy these identified material weaknesses or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future, could, among other things, cause us to fail to file our Exchange Act reports with the SEC in a timely manner; prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial information and forecasts or from avoiding or detecting fraud; or require us to incur further additional costs or divert management resources. The Special Litigation Committee’s investigation, the SEC’s informal investigation and the pending Derivative Litigation have resulted in significant fees, costs and expenses, diverted management time and resources, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred significant professional fees, expenses and other costs in connection with the Special Litigation Committee’s investigation, responding to and cooperating with the SEC’s informal investigation, and in defending against the Derivative Litigation, each of which is described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report. As of June 30, 2008, the Company has incurred $12.7 million in expenses related to these matters (including advancement of legal fees to individuals pursuant to our indemnification obligations). These expenses include $3.0 million in 2007 and $9.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2008. In addition, our Board of Directors, management and employees have expended a substantial amount of time in connection with these matters, diverting resources and attention that would otherwise have been directed toward our operations and implementation of our business strategy. We expect to continue to spend additional time and incur additional professional fees, expenses and other costs in responding to and cooperating with the SEC’s informal investigation and in defending against the Derivative Litigation. In addition, if the SEC were to conclude that an enforcement action is appropriate as a result of its investigation or if we are not able to successfully defend against, or arrive at a satisfactory settlement agreement with respect to, the Derivative Litigation, we may divert even greater amounts of time from our management, Board of Directors and employees, and incur even greater fees, expenses and costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under Delaware law, our charter and bylaws and certain indemnification agreements between us and certain of our current and former directors and officers, we have an obligation to advance legal expenses and may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former directors and officers with respect to the informal SEC investigation and the Derivative Litigation. These indemnifiable obligations may not be reimbursable under our directors and officers’ liability insurance. 13 Table of Contents We have purchased directors and officers liability insurance. Our directors and officers liability insurance covers events for which payment obligations and the timing of payments are only determined in the future. The insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Under our directors and officers liability insurance policy, we are responsible for the cost of claims up to a self-insured limit. In addition, we cannot be sure that claims will not arise that are in excess of the limits of our insurance or that are not covered by the terms of our insurance policy. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business would be harmed if we do not continue successfully to implement our Internet strategy. We use the Internet as our primary vehicle to provide sales leads and database information to our customers. The Internet is widely accepted by businesses worldwide and is a very powerful distribution channel for information. Our Salesgenie, Salesgenie/Lite and other products are now being offered on the Internet on a subscription basis. We have adopted an Internet strategy because we believe that the Internet represents an important and rapidly evolving market for marketing information products and services. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected if we: • fail to develop products and services that are well suited to the Internet market; • experience difficulties that delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products and services; or • fail to achieve sufficient traffic to our Internet sites to generate significant revenues, or successfully to implement electronic commerce operations. Our markets are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. The business and consumer marketing information industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Intense competition could harm us by causing, among other things, price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Our competitors include: Acxiom, Experian, Harte-Hanks Communications, Inc., Dun & Bradstreet, and other companies in research. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants to the business and consumer marketing information industry as a result of the rapid expansion of the Internet, which creates a substantial new channel for distributing business information to the market. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, better name recognition and greater financial resources than we do, which may enable them to implement their business strategies more readily than we can. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Changes in the direct marketing industry and in the industries in which our customers operate may adversely affect our business. Many large companies are reducing their use of direct mail advertising and increasing their use of on-line advertising, including e-mail, search words, and banner advertisements. As a result of this change in the direct marketing industry, such customers are purchasing less data for direct mail applications. In addition, several of our customers operate in industries, in particular the financial and telecommunications industries, that are undergoing consolidation. Such consolidation reduces the number of companies in those industries, and therefore may reduce the number of customers we serve. We are addressing these changes by offering products that integrate our data, data processing, database marketing and e-mail resources, and pursuing industries that are experiencing growth rather than consolidation. We cannot guarantee that the marketplace will accept these new products, or that we will be successful in entering new markets. If we do not gain acceptance for our new products or successfully enter new markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on key personnel. We are highly dependent on senior members of our management team. Loss of our key personnel would likely impede achievement of our research and development, operational, or strategic objectives. To be successful, we must retain key employees and attract additional qualified employees. We are leveraged. If we are unable to service our debt as it becomes due, our business would be harmed. As of December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of approximately $283.2 million. Substantially all of our assets are pledged as security under the terms of our existing Credit Facility. Our ability to pay principal and interest on the indebtedness under the Credit Facility and our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance. Our performance will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors. Certain of these factors are beyond our control. The future availability of revolving credit under the Credit Facility will depend on, among other things, our ability to meet certain specified financial ratios and maintenance tests. We expect that our operating cash flow should be sufficient to meet our operating expenses, to make necessary capital expenditures and to service our debt requirements as they become due. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, however, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying acquisitions and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness (including the Credit Facility) or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to implement any such measures or obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable or satisfactory to us, if at all. Furthermore, as described above, the covenants in the Credit Facility require us to be current on our SEC filings and deliver certain financial statements to the lenders. If are unable to do so, there is no assurance that we can amend the Credit Facility to avoid having to meet this requirement or receive a waiver from lenders, and the Credit Facility may become immediately due and payable. Fluctuations in our operating results may result in decreases in the market price of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis. Our expense levels are relatively fixed and are based, in part, on our expectations as to future revenues. As a result, unexpected changes in revenue levels may have a disproportionate effect on operating performance in any given period. In some period or periods our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. Our failure to meet analyst or investor expectations could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. If we do not adapt our products and services to respond to changes in technology, they could become obsolete. We provide marketing information and services to our customers in a variety of formats, including printed formats, magnetic media, DVD, and electronic media via the Internet. Advances in information technology may result in changing customer preferences for products and product delivery formats. If we do not successfully adapt our products and services to take advantage of changes in technology and customer preferences, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services, and if the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may decline. To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements, and achieve market acceptance. We believe much of our future growth prospects will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer products and services. Products and services that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development. We cannot be assured that the marketplace will accept these products. If our current or potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, our ability to increase revenues will be impaired. 15 Table of Contents Changes in laws and regulations relating to data privacy could adversely affect our business. We engage in direct marketing, as do many of our customers. Certain data and services provided by us are subject to regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the United States as well as those in Canada and the United Kingdom. In addition, growing concerns about individual privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals have led to self-regulation of such practices by the direct marketing industry through guidelines suggested by the Direct Marketing Association and to increased federal and state regulation. There is increasing awareness and concern among the general public regarding marketing and privacy concerns, particularly as it relates to the Internet. This concern is likely to result in new laws and regulations. For example, in 2003 the Federal Trade Commission amended its rules to establish a national “do not call” registry that permits consumers to protect themselves from unsolicited telemarketing telephone calls. Various states also have established similar “do not call” lists. And although “do not call” list regulations do not currently apply to market research phone calls, such as the type performed by us, new legislation or regulation could eliminate the current market research exemption. Compliance with existing federal, state and local laws and regulations and industry self-regulation has not to date seriously affected our business, financial condition or results of operations. Nonetheless, federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the public from the misuse of personal information in the marketplace and adverse publicity or potential litigation concerning the collection, management or commercial use of such information may increasingly affect our operations. This could result in substantial regulatory compliance or litigation expense or a loss of revenue. Our business would be harmed if we do not successfully integrate future acquisitions. Our business strategy includes continued growth through acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses. We have made over 35 acquisitions since 1996 and completed the integration of these acquisitions into our existing business. We continue to evaluate strategic opportunities available to us and intend to pursue opportunities that we believe fit our business strategy. Acquisitions of companies, products or technologies may result in the diversion of management’s time and attention from day-to-day operations of our business and may entail numerous other risks, including difficulties in assimilating and integrating acquired operations, databases, products, corporate cultures and personnel, potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses, difficulties in applying our internal controls to acquired businesses, and particular problems, liabilities or contingencies related to the businesses being acquired. To the extent our efforts to integrate future acquisitions fail, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Future acquisitions may also harm our operating results, dilute our stockholders’ equity and create other financial difficulties for us. We may in the future pursue acquisitions that we believe could provide us with new technologies, products or service offerings, or enable us to obtain other competitive advantages. Acquisitions by us may involve some or all of the following financial risks: • use of significant amounts of cash; • potential dilutive issuances of equity securities; • incurrence of debt or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets; and • future impairment charges related to diminished fair value of businesses acquired as compared to the price we pay for them. We may not be successful in overcoming the risks described above or any other problems associated with future acquisitions. Any of these risks and problems could materially harm our business, prospects and financial condition. Additionally, we cannot guarantee that any companies we may acquire will achieve anticipated revenues or operating results. 16 Table of Contents A failure in the integrity of our database could harm our brand and result in a loss of sales and an increase in legal claims. The reliability of our products and services is dependent upon the integrity of the data in our databases. We have in the past been subject to customer and third-party complaints and lawsuits regarding our data, which have occasionally been resolved by the payment of money damages. A failure in the integrity of our database could harm us by exposing us to customer or third-party claims or by causing a loss of customer confidence in our products and services. We also license proprietary rights to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by the business partners to whom we grant non-exclusive licenses and by customers, they may take actions that could materially and adversely affect the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation. In addition, it cannot be assured that these licensees and customers will take the same steps we have taken to prevent misappropriation of our data solutions or technologies. We may lose key business assets, including loss of data center capacity or the interruption of telecommunications links, the Internet, or power sources, which could significantly impede our ability to operate our business. Our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of third-party service providers to whom we have outsourced several critical functions, to protect data centers and related technology against damage from hardware failure, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, impacts of terrorism, breaches in security (such as the actions of computer hackers), natural disasters, or other disasters. The on-line services we provide are dependent on links to telecommunications providers. In addition, we generate a significant amount of our revenue through telesales centers and websites that we utilize in the acquisition of new customers, fulfillment of solutions and services and responding to customer inquiries. We may not have sufficient redundant operations to cover a loss or failure in all of these areas in a timely manner. Any damage to our data centers, failure of our telecommunications links or inability to access these telesales centers or websites could cause interruptions in operations that materially adversely affect our ability to meet customers’ requirements, resulting in decreased revenue, operating income and earnings per share. Our international operations subject us to additional risks and challenges that could harm our business and our profitability. We have begun expanding internationally, and plan to expand in high growth, emerging international markets. International operations subject us to additional risks and challenges, including: • the need to develop new customer relationships; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • changes in and differences between domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; • price controls; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • lower per capita Internet usage and lack of appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage; • political and economic instability; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • tariffs and other trade barriers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our efforts in foreign countries. Some of these factors may cause our international costs to exceed our domestic costs of doing business. Failure to adequately address these risks could decrease our profitability and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Our contracts with the U.S. federal government grant the government rights that are typically not found in commercial contracts and that could adversely affect our revenues and income. As a result of our acquisition of ORC in 2006, we have approximately 150 active contracts and task orders with the U.S. federal government. There are inherent risks in contracting with the U.S. federal government which could have an adverse effect on our business. All contracts with the U.S. federal government contain provisions, and/or are subject to laws and regulations, that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in our commercial contracts, including rights that allow the government to: • claim rights in and ownership of products and systems that we produce; • adjust contract costs and fees on the basis of audits completed by its agencies; • suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. federal government; and • release information obtained from us in response to a Freedom of Information Act request. Government contractors are often subject to enhanced scrutiny with respect to corporate governance and other measures of business conduct. Matters arising from the Derivative Litigation and the informal SEC investigation may adversely effect the Company’s reputation in this regard, which in turn could jeopardize our government-contracting business. The U.S. federal government has the right to terminate its contracts with us at any time and such terminations could adversely affect our revenues and income. The U.S. federal government has the right to terminate its contracts with us at any time. If the U.S. federal government terminates a contract, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed before the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Additionally, most of our backlog could be reduced by any modification or termination of contracts that we have with the U.S. federal government or, in cases where we are a subcontractor, contracts that our prime contractors have with the U.S. federal government. As a contractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to restrictions and compliance requirements that could divert the attention of our management, drain our resources and/or result in additional costs, fines or other penalties. As a contractor to the U.S. federal government, we are subject to various laws and regulations that are more restrictive than those applicable to non-government contractors. We are required to obtain and maintain material governmental authorizations and approvals to conduct our business as it is currently conducted. New or more stringent laws or governmental regulations concerning government contracts could hurt our business by limiting our flexibility and by potentially causing us to incur additional expenses. We also must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our U.S. federal government clients and may result in added costs for our business. For example, we are required to comply with the Federal Acquisition Regulations and all supplements, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government contracts, and the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including: • termination of contracts; • forfeiture of profits; • suspension of payments; • fines; and • suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. 18 Table of Contents Any of the sanctions could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, or operating results. Our government contracts are subject to audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. federal government, which could hurt our operating results. Our government contracts are subject to audits and reviews by the U.S. federal government of our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Responding to governmental audits, inquiries or investigations may involve significant expense and divert the attention of our management. An audit of our work, including an audit of work performed by companies we have acquired or may acquire, could result in a substantial adjustment to our revenues because any costs determined by the government to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and revenues we have already recognized may need to be refunded. If a U.S. federal government audit results in allegations of improper or illegal activities by us or our employees and if we are unable to successfully defend against those allegations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension, and / or debarment from doing business with U.S. federal government agencies. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us regardless of the merits of any such allegation. In addition, the U.S. federal government may conduct non-audit reviews on a majority of our government contracts, which in turn could lead to full audit reviews by the government. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 