ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a development stage company and we have limited historical operations. We urge you to consider our likelihood of success and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by entities at similar stages of development. The following is a summary of certain risks we face. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CERTAIN RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE COMPANY’S FOCUS ON NANOTECHNOLOGY There are substantial inherent risks in attempting to commercialize new technological applications, and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop nanotechnology for commercial use. The Company finances research and development of nanotechnology, which is a new and unproven field. The Company’s research scientists are working on developing technology in various stages. However, such technology’s commercial feasibility and acceptance is unknown. Scientific research and development requires significant amounts of capital and takes an extremely long time to reach commercial viability, if at all. To date, the Company’s research and development projects have not produced commercially viable applications, and may never do so. During the research and development process, the Company may experience technological barriers that it may be unable to overcome. For example, our scientists must determine how to design and develop nanotechnology applications for potential products designed by third parties for use in cost-effective manufacturing processes. Because of these uncertainties, it is possible that none of our potential applications will be successfully developed. If the Company is unable to successfully develop nanotechnology applications for commercial use, we will be unable to generate revenue or build a sustainable or profitable business. 18 Table of Contents We will need to achieve commercial acceptance of our applications to obtain revenue and achieve profitability. Even if our research and development yields technologically feasible applications, the Company may not successfully develop commercial products, and even if it does, it may not be on a timely basis. If the Company’s research efforts are successful on the technology side, it could take at least several years before this technology will be commercially viable. During this period, superior competitive technologies may be introduced or customer needs may change, which will diminish or extinguish the commercial uses for our applications. To date, the commercial markets have generally not adopted nanotechnology-enabled products. The Company cannot predict when commercial market acceptance for nanotechnology-enabled products will develop, if at all, and we cannot reliably estimate the projected size of any such potential market. If markets fail to accept nanotechnology-enabled products, we may not be able to derive revenue from the commercial application of our technologies. Our revenue growth and achievement of profitability will depend substantially on our ability to introduce new technological applications to manufacturers for products accepted by customers. If we are unable to cost-effectively achieve OEM acceptance of our technology, or if the associated products do not achieve wide market acceptance, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The Company may not be able to effectively secure first-tier research and development projects when competing against existing or new ventures. Management believes that the Company’s success to date in raising capital to finance nanotechnology research and commercialization projects can be largely attributed to the fact that the plan of operations adopted by the Company is relatively novel. If the Company continues to be successful in attracting funding for research and commercialization projects, it is possible that additional competitors could emerge and compete for such funding. Should that occur, the Company could encounter difficulty in raising funds to finance its future operations and further research and commercialization projects. Additionally, there are some companies that already fund early-stage, scientific research at universities, and some venture capital funds invest in companies seeking to commercialize technology. It is possible that these established companies and venture funds, as well as possible additional competitors, have financed or will begin to finance nanotechnology research. Should that occur, the Company may not be able to secure the opportunity to finance first-tier research and commercialization projects. Furthermore, should any commercial undertaking by the Company, prove to be successful, there can be no assurance competitors with greater financial resources will not offer competitive products and/or technologies. Nanotechnology-enabled products are new and may be viewed as being harmful to human health or the environment. There is an increase in public concern regarding the environmental and ethical implications of nanotechnology that could impede market acceptance of products developed through these means. Potentially, nanotechnology-enabled products could be composed of materials such as carbon, silicon, silicon carbide, germanium, gallium arsenide, gallium nitride, cadmium selenide or indium phosphide, which may prove to be unsafe. In addition, nanotechnology-enabled products have no historical safety record. Because of the size, shape, or composition of the nanostructures and because they may contain harmful elements, nanotechnology-enabled products could pose a safety risk to human health or the environment. Furthermore, some countries have adopted regulations prohibiting or limiting the use of materials that contain certain chemicals, which may limit the market for nanotechnology-enabled products. U.S. government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the use of nanotechnology. The regulation and limitation of the kinds of materials used in or used to develop nanotechnology-enabled products, or the regulation of the products themselves, could halt the commercialization of nanotechnology-enabled products or substantially increase the cost, which will impair our ability to achieve revenue from the license of nanotechnology applications. 19 Table of Contents The Company will need approval from governmental authorities in the United States and other countries to successfully realize commercial value from the Company’s activities. In order to clinically test, manufacture, and market products for commercial use, two of the Company’s current Subsidiaries must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Technology and product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. The time and expense required to perform the necessary testing can vary and is substantial. In addition, no action can be taken to market any biologic, drug or device in the United States until the FDA approves an appropriate marketing application. Furthermore, even after initial FDA approval has been obtained, further trials may be required to obtain additional data on safety and effectiveness. Adverse events that are reported during regulatory trials or after marketing approval can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. Any adverse event, either before or after approval, can result in product liability claims against the Company, which could significantly and adversely impact the value of our Common Stock. If export controls affecting our products are expanded, our business will be adversely affected. The U.S. government regulates the sale and shipment of numerous technologies by U.S. companies to foreign countries. Arrowhead’s Subsidiaries may develop products that might be useful for military and antiterrorism activities. Accordingly, U.S. government export regulations could restrict sales of these products in other countries. If the U.S. government places burdensome export controls on our technology or products, our business would be materially and adversely affected. If the U.S. government determines that we have not complied with the applicable export regulations, we may face penalties in the form of fines or other punishment. Our research and product development efforts pertaining to the pharmaceutical industry are subject to additional risks. As of September 30, 2006, two of our Subsidiaries, Insert and Calando, were focused on research and development projects related to new and improved pharmaceutical conjugates. Drug development is time-consuming, expensive, and risky. Even product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early animal and human clinical trials, often fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • clinical trial results are not acceptable, even though preclinical trial results were promising; • inefficacy and/or harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our potential product for the intended use; and • manufacturing and distribution is uneconomical; Clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians, and others, which often delays, limits, or prevents further clinical development or regulatory approvals of potential products. If Insert and Calando are unable to cost-effectively achieve acceptance of their respective biopharmaceutical technology, or if the associated drug products do not achieve wide market acceptance, the businesses of Insert and Calando will be materially and adversely affected, and the value of Company’s interest in each Subsidiary will diminish. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations. The Company’s operations, including, its research and development, its commercialization efforts, such as clinical trials, manufacturing and distribution, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on current best practices, we cannot assure 20 Table of Contents you that the Company or its employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations or laws, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a commercialized product, significant fines, sanctions, or litigation. The Company’s ability to protect its patents and other proprietary rights is uncertain, exposing it to the possible loss of competitive advantage. The Company’s Subsidiaries have licensed rights to pending patents and have filed and will continue to file patent applications. The researchers sponsored by the Company may also file patent applications that Arrowhead chooses to license. If a particular patent is not granted, the value of the invention described in the patent would be diminished. Further, even if these patents are granted, they may be difficult to enforce. Even if successful, efforts to enforce our patent rights could be expensive, distracting for management, cause our patents to be invalidated, and frustrate commercialization of products. Additionally, even if patents are issued, and are enforceable, others may independently develop similar, superior, or parallel technologies to any technology developed by us, or the Company’s technology may prove to infringe upon patents or rights owned by others. Thus, the patents held by or licensed to us may not afford us any meaningful competitive advantage. If we are unable to derive value from our licensed or owned intellectual property, the value of your investment in the Company may decline. CERTAIN RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE EARLY STAGE OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS We are a development stage company and the Company’s success is subject to the substantial risks inherent in the establishment of a new business venture. As a consequence of the change in the control of the Company on January 12, 2004, the Company changed management and all efforts that were previously initiated by prior management were abandoned. At that time, the Company’s new management adopted a new plan of operations based on the strategy that was formulated by the California corporation following its formation in May 2003 and not previously proven successful. To date, implementation of this strategy is still in the development stage. We have acquired majority interests in four Subsidiary companies and, are sponsoring one university research project at Caltech, one university research project at Duke University, one university research project at Stanford and one university research project at the University of Florida. The Company’s business and operations should be considered to be in the development stage and subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business venture. Accordingly, the intended business and operations of the Company may not prove to be successful in the near future, if at all. Any future success that the Company might enjoy will depend upon many factors, several of which may be beyond the control of the Company, or which cannot be predicted at this time, and could have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition, business prospects and operations of the Company and the value of an investment in the Company. The Company has not generated revenue and its business model does not predict significant revenues in the foreseeable future. To date, the Company has only generated a small amount of revenue as a result of its current plan of operations. Moreover, given its strategy of financing new and unproven technology research, we do not expect to realize significant revenue from operations in the foreseeable future, if at all. We must overcome the many obstacles associated with integrating and operating varying business ventures to succeed. Arrowhead’s model to integrate and oversee the strategic direction of various Subsidiaries and research and development projects presents many risks, including: • the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • the diversion of our management’s attention as a result of evaluating, negotiating and integrating acquisitions or new business ventures. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to timely and efficiently design and integrate administrative and operational support for our Subsidiaries, we may be unable to manage projects effectively, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our business objectives and the value of an investment in the Company could decline. In addition, consummating acquisitions and taking advantage of strategic relationships could adversely impact our cash position, and dilute Stockholder interests, for many reasons, including: • changes to our income to reflect the amortization of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; • interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred to fund our growth strategy; and • any issuance of securities to fund our operations or growth, which dilutes or lessens the rights of current Stockholders. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the near future, and, if we are unable to secure adequate funds on acceptable terms, the Company may be unable to support its business plan. The Company’s plan of operations is to provide substantial amounts of research project funding and financial support for majority-owned Subsidiaries over an extended period of time. Accordingly, the Company may need to raise additional capital in the near term, and may seek to do so by conducting one or more private placements of equity securities, selling additional securities in a registered public offering, or through a combination of one or more of such financing alternatives. There can be no assurance that any additional capital resources needed by the Company will be available to the Company as and when required, or on favorable terms that will be acceptable to the Company. If the Company is unable to raise the capital required on a timely basis, it may not be able to fund its research projects or the development of the businesses of its Subsidiaries. In such event, the Company may be required to delay or reduce implementation of certain aspects of its plan of operations. Stockholder interest in the Company may be substantially diluted in additional financings by the Company. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of an aggregate of 75,000,000 shares of Common Stock, on such terms and at such prices as the Board of Directors of the Company may determine. As of September 30, 2006, 34,143,652 shares of common stock were outstanding. As of September 30, 2006, 1,712,500 shares and 5,000,000 shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of options granted under Arrowhead’s 2000 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, respectively. As of September 30, 2006, options to purchase 1,712,500 shares were outstanding under the 2000 Stock Option Plan and options to purchase 2,684,539 shares had been granted under the 2004 Incentive Plan. The Company has warrants outstanding to purchase 1,397,500 shares of Common Stock that are callable by the Company under certain market conditions. The issuance of additional securities would dilute the equity interests of the Company’s existing Stockholders, perhaps substantially, and might result in dilution in the tangible net book value of a share of our Common Stock, depending upon the price and other terms on which the additional shares are issued. The Company’s success depends on the attraction and retention of senior management and scientists with relevant expertise. The Company’s future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of its key employees, particularly Mr. R. Bruce Stewart, Chief Executive Officer, who conceived of the Company’s business and overall operating strategy and has been most instrumental in assisting the Company raise capital. On September 7, 2004, Mr. Joseph T. Kingsley joined the Company as its Chief Financial Officer and on June 2, 2006 was appointed Interim President. Mr. Kingsley also remains the Company’s Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Kingsley is a key member of the Company’s management team. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance for Mr. Stewart, Mr. Kingsley, or any other executive. The Company’s ability to execute its strategy also will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientists, sales, marketing and additional managerial personnel. If we are unable to find, hire and retain qualified individuals, we could have difficulty implementing our business plan in a timely manner, or at all. 22 Table of Contents CERTAIN RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR STOCK Arrowhead’s Common Stock price has fluctuated significantly during fiscal 2005 and 2006 and may continue to do so in the future. Because we are a developmental stage company, there are few objective metrics by which our progress may be measured. Consequently, we expect that the market price of our Common Stock will likely continue to fluctuate significantly. We do not expect to generate substantial revenue from the license or sale of our nanotechnology for several years, if at all. In the absence of product revenue as a measure of our operating performance, we anticipate that investors and market analysts will assess our performance by considering factors such as: • announcements of developments related to our business; • developments in our strategic relationships with scientists within the nanotechnology field; • our ability to enter into or extend investigation phase, development phase, commercialization phase and other agreements with new and/or existing partners; • announcements regarding the status of any or all of our collaborations or products; • market perception and/or investor sentiment regarding nanotechnology as the next technological wave; • announcements regarding developments in the nanotechnology field in general; • the issuance of competitive patents or disallowance or loss of our patent rights; and • quarterly variations in our operating results. We will not have control over many of these factors but expect that they may influence our stock price. As a result, our stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment. The market for purchases and sales of the Company’s Common Stock may be very limited, and the sale of a limited number of shares could cause the price to fall sharply. Although the Company’s Common Stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market, currently, our securities are relatively thinly traded. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of Common Stock quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could continue to result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business, of if they make adverse recommendations regarding an investment in our stock, our stock price and trading volume may decline. The trading market for our Common Stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by industry or securities analysts. If no industry or securities analysts commence coverage of our Company, the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain industry or security analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively on our prospects, our stock price would likely decline. If one of more of these analysts cease to cover our industry or us or fails to publish reports about our Company regularly, our Common Stock could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could also cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected by the sale of shares by the Company’s management or founding Stockholders. Sales of our Common Stock by our officers, directors and founding Stockholders could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of those securities. Additionally, the price of Arrowhead’s Common Stock could be 23 Table of Contents affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our Common Stock or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. Furthermore, due to relatively low trading volume of our stock, should one or more large stockholders seek to sell a significant portion of its stock in a short period of time, the price of our stock may decline. We may be the target of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our Stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on our Common Stock. We will not distribute cash to our stockholders until and unless we can develop sufficient funds from operations to meet our ongoing needs and implement our business plan. The time frame for that is inherently unpredictable, and you should not plan on it occurring in the near future, if at all. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of “blank check” Preferred Stock, which may make an acquisition of our company by another company more difficult. We have adopted and may in the future adopt certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of the Company that a holder of our Common Stock might consider in its best interest. Specifically, the Company’s Board of Directors, without further action by the Company’s stockholders, currently has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares (“blank check” preferred). Such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our Common Stock. As a result, the issuance of the preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 