ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a development stage company and we have limited historical operations. We urge you to consider our likelihood of success and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by entities at similar stages of development. The following is a summary of certain risks we face. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have limited cash resources. Our plan of operations is to provide substantial amounts of development funding and financial support to our subsidiaries over an extended period of time. The Company adopted a cash conservation strategy that reduced corporate expenses and scaled back our financial support for our two major subsidiaries, Unidym and Calando. This has influenced Unidym’s decision to engage partners for its capital-intensive bulk CNT manufacturing and concentrate its resources on the development of CNT inks and CNT-based film products, and Calando’s decision to curtail internal R&D efforts for its drug delivery platforms and clinical candidates and seek partners for future development of its drug candidates. Management continues operate under a plan to conserve cash resources while selectively investing in near-term opportunities. The Company’s management anticipates that the Company will be able to satisfy the cash requirements of its operations through at least the next twelve months with current cash resources. However, we may need to obtain additional capital to further our development efforts, and we intend to seek additional capital by out-licensing technology, selling one or more of our subsidiaries, securing funded partnerships, conducting one or more private placements of equity securities of the Company or our subsidiaries, selling additional securities in a registered public offering, or through a combination of one or more of such financing alternatives. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any of these endeavors or, if we are successful, that such transactions will be accomplished on favorable terms. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we will implement additional cash saving measures, which could materially harm our business and our ability to achieve cash flow in the future, including delaying or reducing implementation of certain aspects of our plan of operations. Even if we are successful in obtaining additional capital, because we and each subsidiary are separate entities, it could be difficult or impossible to allocate funds in a way that meets the needs of all entities. The current financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Neither the Company nor our subsidiaries generate substantial revenue, and our operations and research and development activities have been primarily funded through the sale of Company securities and securities of our subsidiaries. Current market conditions may impair our ability to raise the capital we need. If we are unable to secure additional cash resources from the sale of securities or other sources, it could become necessary to further slow, interrupt or close down development efforts. In addition, we may have to make additional reductions in expenses at the Company, which could impair our ability to manage our business and our subsidiaries. Even if investment capital is available to us, the terms may be onerous. If investment capital is needed and available to Unidym and/or Calando and the Company does not have the funds to make a pro rata investment, our ownership interest could be diluted. The sale of additional Company stock to fund operations could result in significant dilution to stockholders. The strategy for eventual monetization of our subsidiaries will likely depend on our ability to exit our ownership position in each subsidiary in an orderly manner. Exit opportunities could include an initial public offering (“IPO”) for the subsidiary or acquisition of the subsidiary by another company. During the recent economic recession, companies have been adopting conservative acquisition strategies and, even if there is interest, they may not be able to acquire our subsidiaries on terms that are attractive to us. These factors could reduce the realizable return on our investment if we are able to sell a subsidiary. Additionally, the market for IPOs continues to be very limited, which limits public exit opportunities for our subsidiaries. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our Common Stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market, which has certain compliance requirements for continued listing of common stock. In the past, we have been subject to delisting procedures due to a drop in the price of our Common Stock. If our minimum closing bid price per share falls below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive trading days in the future, we may again be subject to delisting procedures. We must also meet additional continued listing requirements contained in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(b), which requires that we have (1) a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders’ equity, (2) $35,000,000 market value of listed securities held by non-affiliates or (3) $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year (or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years). As of December 20, 2010, based on our closing price as of that day, the market value of our securities held by non-affiliates was approximately $65,000,000. 10 Table of Contents As of the close of business on December 8, 2010, our Common Stock had a closing bid price of $0.90 per share, and has had a bid price of less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive days. Accordingly, on December 8, 2010, we received a deficiency letter from the NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that, based on the Company’s closing bid price for the last 30 consecutive business days, the Company does not comply with the minimum bid price of $1.00 per as set forth in NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), the Company has a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until June 6, 2011 to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing. In order to regain compliance, the minimum closing price per share of the Company’s common stock must be at least $1.00 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. In the event the Company does not regain compliance by June 6, 2011, the Company may be afforded an additional 180 day compliance period, provided it demonstrates that it meets all other applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market (except the bid price requirement). If the Company fails to regain compliance after the second grace period, the Company’s stock will be subject to delisting by NASDAQ. Delisting could reduce the ability of our shareholders to purchase or sell shares as quickly and as easily as they have done historically. For instance, failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange may make it more difficult for traders to sell our securities. Broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell or make a market in our Common Stock. Not maintaining our NASDAQ Capital Market listing may (among other effects): • result in a decrease in the trading price of our Common Stock; • lessen interest by institutions and individuals in investing in our Common Stock; • make it more difficult to obtain analyst coverage; and • make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. We have debt on our consolidated balance sheet, which could have consequences if we were unable to repay the principal or interest due Calando has a $500,000 unsecured convertible promissory note outstanding. The note bears 10% interest accrued annually, matured in November 2010 and is payable upon demand. The note is payable at two times face value in certain events, including, among other things, the license of Calando’s siRNA delivery system. An amendment to extend the note is currently being negotiated, however if the note is not extended, the Company has the ability and intent to repay this note. However, if Calando is unable to meet its obligations to the bearer of the note, Arrowhead may also not be in a position to lend Calando sufficient cash to pay such demand note. Unless other sources of financing become available, this could result in Calando’s insolvency. Our subsidiaries have entered into technology license agreements with third parties that require us to satisfy obligations to keep them effective and, if these agreements are terminated, our technology and our business would be seriously and adversely affected. Through our subsidiaries, we have entered into exclusive, long-term license agreements with Rice University, California Institute of Technology, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and other entities to incorporate their proprietary technologies into our proposed products. These license agreements require us to pay royalties and satisfy other conditions, including conditions related to the commercialization of the licensed technology. We cannot give any assurance that we will successfully incorporate these technologies into marketable products or, if we do, whether sales will be sufficient to recover the amounts that we are obligated to pay to the licensors. Failure by us to satisfy our obligations under these agreements, including the solvency requirements set forth in our license agreement with Rice university, may result in the modification of the terms of the licenses, such as by rendering them non-exclusive, or may give our licensors the right to terminate their respective agreement with us, which would limit our ability to implement our current business plan and harm our business and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Model and Company We are a development stage company and our success is subject to the substantial risks inherent in the establishment of new business ventures. The implementation of our business strategy is still in the development stage. We currently own majority interests in two subsidiary companies, investments in two early-stage biotech companies and, through Unidym, one university research project at Duke University. Our business and operations should be considered to be in the development stage and subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business venture. Accordingly, our intended business and operations may not prove to be successful in the near future, if at all. Any future success that we might enjoy will depend upon many factors, several of which may be beyond our control, or which cannot be predicted at this time, and which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, business prospects and operations, and the value of an investment in the Company. 11 Table of Contents Calando may be unable to find additional partners to license its technologies. As part of our cash conservation strategy that scales back our financial support for Calando at this time, Calando has closed its laboratory facilities, eliminated its technical employees and has shifted its focus to licensing its technologies to partners. Currently, Calando has one licensing partner, but there can be no assurance that Calando will be able to find additional partners to license its technologies upon terms favorable to Calando. If Calando licenses its technologies, it will lose a considerable amount of control over its intellectual property and may not receive adequate licensing revenues in exchange. The business model of our subsidiaries has historically been to develop new nanotechnologies and to exploit the intellectual property created through the research and development process to develop commercially successful products. Calando has licensed a portion of its technology to Cerulean Pharma, Inc. and intends to pursue further licensing arrangements with other companies. A significant portion of the potential value from these licenses is tied to the achievement of the development and sales milestones, which we cannot control. As Calando licenses its technology to other companies, it will lose control over certain of the technologies it licenses and will be unable to control the development and commercialization of its technologies, which could result in the failure to achieve performance milestones that would represent a significant portion of the total value of any license transaction. In addition, Calando’s licensees may not be successful in the further commercialization of Calando’s technologies and anticipated revenues from such license agreements may be less than expected or may not be paid at all. There are substantial risks inherent in attempting to commercialize new technological applications, and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop nanotechnology for commercial use. The Company finances research and development of nanotechnology, which is a new and unproven field. Our scientists and engineers are working on developing technology in various stages. However, such technology’s commercial feasibility and acceptance is unknown. Scientific research and development requires significant amounts of capital and takes a long time to reach commercial viability, if at all. To date, our research and development projects have not produced commercially viable applications, and may never do so. During the research and development process, we may experience technological barriers that we may be unable to overcome. For example, our scientists must determine how to design and develop nanotechnology applications for potential products designed by third parties for use in cost-effective manufacturing processes. Because of these uncertainties, it is possible that none of our potential applications will be successfully developed. If we are unable to successfully develop nanotechnology applications for commercial use, we will be unable to generate revenue or build a sustainable or profitable business. Because we have not generated significant revenues to cover our operating expenses, we are dependent on raising additional capital from investors or lenders. To date, we have only generated a small amount of revenue as a result of our current plan of operations. Given our strategy of financing new and unproven technology research, there is no assurance we would ever generate significant revenues. Our revenue-producing opportunities depend on liquidity events within our subsidiaries, such as a sale of the subsidiary, licensing transaction or initial public offering. We cannot be certain that we will be able to create a liquidity event for any of our subsidiaries and, even if we are able to, we cannot be certain of the timing or the potential proceeds to Arrowhead as a stockholder. Accordingly, our revenue prospects are uncertain and we must plan to finance our operations through the sales of equity securities or debt financing. If we are unable to continue raising operating capital from these sources, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. We will need to achieve commercial acceptance of our applications to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Even if our research and development yields technologically feasible applications, we may not successfully develop commercial products, and even if we do, we may not do so on a timely basis. Even if our research efforts are technologically successful, it could take several years before this technology will be commercially viable. During this period, superior competitive technologies may be introduced or customer needs may change, which could diminish or extinguish the commercial uses for our applications. Because nanotechnology is an emerging field, the degree to which potential consumers will adopt nanotechnology-enabled products is uncertain. We cannot predict when significant commercial market acceptance for nanotechnology-enabled products will develop, if at all, and we cannot reliably estimate the projected size of any such potential market. If markets fail to accept nanotechnology-enabled products, we may not be able to generate revenues from the commercial application of our technologies. Our revenue growth and achievement of profitability will depend substantially on our ability to introduce new technological applications to manufacturers for products accepted by customers. If we are unable to cost-effectively achieve acceptance of our technology among original equipment manufacturers and customers, or if the associated products do not achieve wide market acceptance, our business will be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We will need to establish additional relationships with strategic and development partners to fully develop and market our products. We do not possess all of the resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from our technologies on a mass scale. Unless we expand our product development capacity and enhance our internal marketing, we will need to make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to develop and commercialize current and future products. If we do not find appropriate partners, or if our existing arrangements or future agreements are not successful, our ability to develop and commercialize products could be adversely affected. Even if we are able to find collaborative partners, the overall success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs will depend largely on the efforts of other parties and is beyond our control. In addition, in the event we pursue our commercialization strategy through collaboration, there are a variety of technical, business and legal risks, including: • a development partner would likely gain access to our proprietary information, potentially enabling the partner to develop products without us or design around our intellectual property; • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may be willing or able to devote to the development or commercialization of our product candidates or to their marketing and distribution; and • disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts our management’s resources. The occurrence of any of the above risks could impair our ability to generate revenues and harm our business and financial condition. We need to retain a controlling interest, by ownership, contract or otherwise, in Unidym and Calando in order to avoid potentially being deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Companies that have more than 100 U.S. stockholders or are publicly traded in the U.S. or are, or hold themselves out as being, engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities are subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Unless a substantial part of our assets consists of, and a substantial part of our income is derived from, interests in majority-owned subsidiaries and companies that we primarily control, whether by contract or otherwise, we may be required to register and become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. Because Investment Company Act regulation is, for the most part, inconsistent with our strategy of actively managing and operating our portfolio companies, a requirement to operate our business as a registered investment company would restrict our operations and require additional resources for compliance. If we are deemed to be, and are required to register as, an investment company, we will be forced to comply with substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act, including: • limitations on our ability to borrow; • limitations on our capital structure; • restrictions on acquisitions of interests in associated companies; • prohibitions on transactions with our affiliates; • restrictions on specific investments; and • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. In order to avoid regulation under the Investment Company Act, we may choose to make additional pro rata investments in Unidym and Calando to maintain a controlling interest. Nanotechnology-enabled products are new and may be viewed as being harmful to human health or the environment. There is public concern regarding the human health, environmental and ethical implications of nanotechnology that could impede market acceptance of products developed through these means. Nanotechnology-enabled products could be composed of materials such as carbon, silicon, silicon carbide, germanium, gallium arsenide, gallium nitride, cadmium selenide or indium phosphide, which may prove to be unsafe or harmful to human health or to the environment because of the size, shape or composition of the nanostructures. For this reason, these nanostructures may prove to present risks to human health or the environment that are different from and greater than the better understood risks that may be presented by the constituent materials in non-nanoscale forms. Because of the potential, but at this point unknown, risks associated with certain nanomaterials, government authorities in the U.S. or individual states, and foreign government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the use of some or all nanotechnologies. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has in that regard recently taken steps towards regulation of the manufacture and use of certain nanotechnology-enabled materials, including those containing carbon nanotubes or nanosilver. Further, the U.S. National Academy of Sciences/National Research Council concluded that the U.S. government needs to develop a more robust and coordinated plan for addressing the potential environmental, health, and safety risks of nanomaterials. The regulation and 13 Table of Contents limitation of the kinds of materials used in or used to develop nanotechnology-enabled products, or the regulation of the products themselves, could halt or delay the commercialization of nanotechnology-enabled products or substantially increase the cost, which will impair our ability to achieve revenue from the license of nanotechnology applications. We may not be able to effectively secure first-tier research and development projects when competing against other ventures. Our business plan requires that we identify and successfully acquire promising technologies. However, we compete with a substantial number of other companies that fund early-stage, scientific research at universities to secure rights to promising technologies. In addition, many venture capital firms and other institutional investors invest in companies seeking to commercialize various types of emerging technologies. Many of these companies have greater financial, scientific and commercial resources than us. Therefore, we may not be able to secure the opportunity to finance first-tier research and commercialization projects. Furthermore, should any commercial undertaking by us prove to be successful, there can be no assurance competitors with greater financial resources will not offer competitive products and/or technologies. We rely on outside sources for various components and processes for our products. We rely on third parties for various components and processes for our products. While we try to have at least two sources for each component and process, we may not be able to achieve multiple sourcing because there may be no acceptable second source, other companies may choose not to work with us, or the component or process sought may be so new that a second source does not exist, or does not exist on acceptable terms. In addition, due to the continued tightening of global credit markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. Therefore, it is possible that our business plans will have to be slowed down or stopped completely at times due to our inability to obtain required raw materials, components and outsourced processes at an acceptable cost, if at all, or to get a timely response from vendors. We must overcome the many obstacles associated with integrating and operating varying business ventures to succeed. Our model to integrate and oversee the strategic direction of various subsidiaries and research and development projects presents many risks, including: • the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • the diversion of our management’s attention as a result of evaluating, negotiating and integrating acquisitions or new business ventures. If we are unable to timely and efficiently design and integrate administrative and operational support for our subsidiaries, we may be unable to manage projects effectively, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our business objectives and the value of an investment in the Company could decline. In addition, consummating acquisitions and taking advantage of strategic relationships could adversely impact our cash position, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including: • changes to our income to reflect the amortization of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; • interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred to fund our growth strategy; and • any issuance of securities to fund our operations or growth, which dilutes or lessens the rights of current stockholders. Our success depends on the attraction and retention of senior management and scientists with relevant expertise. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of our key employees, including Dr. Anzalone, our CEO. In addition, we rely on several key executives to manage each of our subsidiaries. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of our executives. Our ability to execute our strategy also will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientists, sales, marketing and additional managerial personnel. If we are unable to find, hire and retain qualified individuals, we could have difficulty implementing our business plan in a timely manner, or at all. We may need to terminate additional employees, including senior management and technical employees, or such employees may seek other employment which may result in the loss of valuable know-how and that development efforts could be negatively affected. Members of our senior management team and Board may have a conflict of interest in also serving as officers and/or directors of our subsidiaries. While we expect that our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of our subsidiaries will comply with their fiduciary duties owed to our stockholders, they may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and the minority stockholders of our subsidiaries. Specifically, Dr. Anzalone, our CEO and President, is the founder, CEO and a board member of each of Nanotope, a regenerative medicine company in which the Company owns a 23% interest, and Leonardo, a drug delivery company 14 Table of Contents in which the Company owns a 4.9% interest. Dr. Anzalone owns a noncontrolling interest in the stock of each of Nanotope and Leonardo. To the extent that any of our directors choose to recuse themselves from particular Board actions to avoid a conflict of interest, the other members of our Board of Directors will have a greater influence on such decisions. Our efforts pertaining to the pharmaceutical industry are subject to additional risks. Our subsidiary, Calando, as well as minority investments Nanotope and Leonardo, are focused on technology related to new and improved pharmaceutical candidates. Drug development is time consuming, expensive and risky. Even product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early animal and human clinical trials, often fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • clinical trial results may be unacceptable, even though preclinical trial results were promising; • inefficacy and/or harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, may not approve our potential product for the intended use; and • manufacturing and distribution may be uneconomical. Clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which often delays, limits, or prevents further clinical development or regulatory approvals of potential products. Additionally, clinical trials can take years to complete site selection and the enrollment of patients. If the subsidiaries’ technology is not cost effective or if the associated drug products do not achieve wide market acceptance, the value of a subsidiary would be materially and adversely affected. Any drugs developed by our subsidiaries may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, thereby harming our business. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the U.S. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would affect changes in the U.S. healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures, including reductions in the cost of prescription products and changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. The ability of Calando and our minority investments, Nanotope and Leonardo, to market products successfully (either on their own or in partnership with other companies) will depend in part on the extent to which third-party payers are willing to reimburse patients for the costs of their products and related treatments. These third-party payers include government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, the trend toward managed healthcare and government insurance programs could result in lower prices and reduced demand for the products of these companies. Cost containment measures instituted by healthcare providers and any general healthcare reform could affect their ability to sell products and may have a material adverse effect on them, thereby diminishing the value of the Company’s interest in these subsidiaries or any anticipated milestone or royalty payments. We cannot predict the effect of future legislation or regulation concerning the healthcare industry and third party coverage and reimbursement on our business. There may be a difference in the investment valuations that we used when making initial and subsequent investments in our subsidiaries and minority investments and actual market values. Our investments in our subsidiaries and noncontrolling interests were the result of negotiation with subsidiary management and equity holders, and the investment valuations may not have been independently verified. Traditional methods used by independent valuation analysts include a discounted cash flow analysis and a comparable company analysis. We have not generated a positive cash flow to date and do not expect to generate significant cash flow in the near future. Additionally, we believe that there exist few comparable public companies to provide meaningful valuation comparisons. Accordingly, we have not sought independent valuation analysis in connection with our investments and may have invested in our various holdings at higher or lower valuations than an independent source would have recommended. There may be no correlation between the investment valuations that we used over the years for our investments and the actual market values. If we should eventually sell all or a part of any of our consolidated business or that of a subsidiary, the ultimate sale price may be for a value substantially different than previously determined by us, which could materially and adversely impair the value of our Common Stock. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If Unidym is unable to raise additional cash or pay its debts, Unidym may lose rights to critical intellectual property. Unidym is required to meet certain financial covenants pursuant its Rice University license agreement. The Rice license includes financial covenants tested quarterly for compliance. If Unidym fails to meet the financial covenants, the Rice license may terminate. If this should happen, the value of Unidym’s intellectual property portfolio would be significantly and adversely affected and Unidym would likely lose patent protection for its products and licensing opportunities for the majority of its CNT intellectual portfolio. Our ability to protect our patents and other proprietary rights is uncertain, exposing us to the possible loss of competitive advantage. Our subsidiaries have licensed rights to pending patents and have filed and will continue to file patent applications. The researchers sponsored by us may also file patent applications that we choose to license. If a particular patent is not granted, the value of the invention described in the patent would be diminished. Further, even if these patents are granted, they may be difficult to enforce. Even if successful, efforts to enforce our patent rights could be expensive, distracting for management, cause our patents to be invalidated, and frustrate commercialization of products. Additionally, even if patents are issued and are enforceable, others may independently develop similar, superior or parallel technologies to any technology developed by us, or our technology may prove to infringe upon patents or rights owned by others. Thus, the patents held by or licensed to us may not afford us any meaningful competitive advantage. If we are unable to derive value from our licensed or owned intellectual property, the value of your investment may decline. Our ability to develop and commercialize products will depend on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to develop and commercialize products based on their respective patent portfolios, will depend, in part, on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that any patents that may issue from patent applications owned or licensed by us or any of our subsidiaries will provide sufficient protection to conduct our respective businesses as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted, or that we or our subsidiaries will remain free from infringement claims by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our potential products. Because the nanotechnology intellectual property landscape is rapidly evolving and interdisciplinary, it is difficult to conclusively assess our freedom to operate without infringing on third party rights. However, we are currently aware of certain patent rights held by third parties that, if found to be valid and enforceable, could be alleged to render one or more of our business lines infringing. If a claim should be brought and is successful, we may be required to pay substantial damages, be forced to abandon any affected business lines and/or seek a license from the patent holder. In addition, any patent infringement claims brought against us or our subsidiaries, whether or not successful, may cause us to incur significant expenses and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns. These could negatively affect our results of operations and prospects. There can also be no assurance that patents owned or licensed by us or our subsidiaries will not be challenged by others. In addition, if our potential products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, these third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers, and we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer as a result of these claims. The claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. The technology licensed by our subsidiaries from various third parties may be subject to government rights and retained rights of the originating research institutions. We license technology from Caltech, Rice University, and other universities and companies. Our licensors may have obligations to government agencies or universities. Under their agreements, a government agency or university may obtain certain rights over the technology that we have developed and licensed, including the right to require that a compulsory license be granted to one or more third parties selected by the government agency. In addition, our collaborators often retain certain rights under their agreements with us, including the right to use the underlying technology for noncommercial academic and research use, to publish general scientific findings from research related to the technology, and to make customary scientific and scholarly disclosures of information relating to the technology. It is difficult to monitor whether our collaborators limit their use of the technology to these uses, and we could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights to our licensed technology in the event of misuse. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulation of Our Products Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations. Our operations, including our research and development and our commercialization efforts, such as clinical trials, manufacturing and distribution, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot be assured that the Company or our employees are, or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations or laws, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a commercialized product, significant fines, sanctions, or litigation, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. If export controls affecting our products are expanded, our business will be adversely affected. The federal government regulates the sale and shipment of numerous technologies by U.S. companies to foreign countries. Our subsidiaries may develop products that might be useful for military and antiterrorism activities. Accordingly, federal government export regulations could restrict sales of these products in other countries. If the federal government places burdensome export controls on our technology or products, our business would be materially and adversely affected. If the federal government determines that we have not complied with the applicable export regulations, we may face penalties in the form of fines or other punishment. Risks Related to our Stock Stockholder equity interest may be substantially diluted in any additional financing. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 145,000,000 shares of Common Stock and 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, on such terms and at such prices as our Board of Directors may determine. As of September 30, 2010, 71,720,137 shares of Common Stock and no shares of Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding. As of September 30, 2010, 8,123,338 shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding options. As of September 30, 2010, there were warrants outstanding to purchase 25,672,595 shares of Common Stock. The issuance of additional securities in financing transactions by us or through the exercise of options or warrants will dilute the equity interests of our existing stockholders, perhaps substantially, and might result in dilution in the tangible net book value of a share of our Common Stock, depending upon the price and other terms on which the additional shares are issued. Our Common Stock price has fluctuated significantly over the last several years and may continue to do so in the future, without regard to our results of operations and prospects. Because we are a development stage company, there are few objective metrics by which our progress may be measured. Consequently, we expect that the market price of our Common Stock will likely continue to fluctuate significantly. We do not expect to generate substantial revenue from the license or sale of our nanotechnology for several years, if at all. In the absence of product revenue as a measure of our operating performance, we anticipate that investors and market analysts will assess our performance by considering factors such as: • announcements of developments related to our business; • developments in our strategic relationships with scientists within the nanotechnology field; • our ability to enter into or extend investigation phase, development phase, commercialization phase and other agreements with new and/or existing partners; • announcements regarding the status of any or all of our collaborations or products; • market perception and/or investor sentiment regarding nanotechnology as the next technological wave; • announcements regarding developments in the nanotechnology field in general; • the issuance of competitive patents or disallowance or loss of our patent rights; and • quarterly variations in our operating results. We will not have control over many of these factors but expect that they may influence our stock price. As a result, our stock price may be volatile and any extreme fluctuations in the market price of our Common Stock could result in the loss of all or part of your investment. 17 Table of Contents The market for purchases and sales of our Common Stock may be very limited, and the sale of a limited number of shares could cause the price to fall sharply. Although our Common Stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, our securities historically were relatively thinly traded. Investor trading pattern could serve to exacerbate the volatility of the price of the stock. For example, mandatory sales of our Common Stock by institutional holders could be triggered if an investment in our Common Stock no longer satisfies their investment standards and guidelines. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of Common Stock quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could continue to result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business or if they make adverse recommendations regarding an investment in our stock, our stock price and trading volume may decline. The trading market for our Common Stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by industry or securities analysts. Investors have many investment opportunities and may limit their investments to companies that receive coverage from analysts. If no industry or securities analysts commence coverage of the Company, the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain industry or security analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively on our prospects, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our industry or us or fails to publish reports about the Company regularly, our Common Stock could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could also cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected by the sale of shares by our management or founding stockholders. Sales of our Common Stock by our officers, directors and founding stockholders could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of those securities. Additionally, the price of our Common Stock could be affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our Common Stock, or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. Furthermore, due to relatively low trading volume of our stock, should one or more large stockholders seek to sell a significant portion of its stock in a short period of time, the price of our stock may decline. We may be the target of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on our Common Stock. We will not distribute cash to our stockholders unless and until we can develop sufficient funds from operations to meet our ongoing needs and implement our business plan. The time frame for that is inherently unpredictable, and you should not plan on it occurring in the near future, if at all. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of “blank check” preferred stock, which may make an acquisition of the Company by another company more difficult. We have adopted and may in the future adopt certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of the Company that a holder of our Common Stock might consider in its best interest. Specifically, our Board of Directors, without further action by our stockholders, currently has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares (“blank check” preferred). Such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 