ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a development stage company and we have limited historical operations. We urge you to consider our likelihood of success and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by entities at similar stages of development. The following is a summary of certain risks we face. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. CERTAIN RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE COMPANY’S FOCUS ON NANOTECHNOLOGY There are substantial inherent risks in attempting to commercialize new technological applications, and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop nanotechnology for commercial use. The Company finances research and development of nanotechnology, which is a new and unproven field. The Company’s research scientists are working on developing technology in various stages. However, such technology’s commercial feasibility and acceptance is unknown. Scientific research and development requires significant amounts of capital and takes an extremely long time to reach commercial viability, if at all. To date, the Company’s research and development projects have not produced commercially viable applications, and may never do so. During the research and development process, the Company may experience technological barriers that it may be unable to overcome. For example, our scientists must determine how to design and develop nanotechnology applications for potential products designed by third parties for use in cost-effective manufacturing processes. Because of these uncertainties, it is possible that none of our potential applications will be successfully developed. If the Company is unable to successfully develop nanotechnology applications for commercial use, we will be unable to generate revenue or build a sustainable or profitable business. We will need to achieve commercial acceptance of our applications to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Even if our research and development yields technologically feasible applications, the Company may not successfully develop commercial products, and even if it does, it may not be on a timely basis. If the Company’s research efforts are successful on the technology side, it could take at least several years before this technology will be commercially viable. During this period, superior competitive technologies may be introduced or customer needs may change, which will diminish or extinguish the commercial uses for our applications. Because nanotechnology is an emerging field, the degree to which potential consumers will adopt nanotechnology-enabled products is uncertain. The Company cannot predict when significant commercial market acceptance for nanotechnology-enabled products will develop, if at all, and we cannot reliably estimate the projected size of any such potential market. If markets fail to accept nanotechnology-enabled products, we may not be able to generate revenues from the commercial application of our technologies. Our revenue growth and achievement of profitability will depend substantially on our ability to introduce new technological applications to manufacturers for products accepted by customers. If we are unable to cost-effectively achieve acceptance of our technology among original equipment manufacturers and customers, or if the associated products do not achieve wide market acceptance, our business will be materially and adversely affected. The Company may not be able to effectively secure first-tier research and development projects when competing against existing or new ventures. Management believes that the Company’s success to date in raising capital to finance nanotechnology research and commercialization projects can be largely attributed to the fact that the plan of operations adopted by the Company is relatively novel. If the Company continues to be successful in attracting funding for research 19 Table of Contents and commercialization projects, it is possible that additional competitors could emerge and compete for such funding. Should that occur, the Company could encounter difficulty in raising funds to finance its future operations and further research and commercialization projects. Additionally, a substantial number of companies fund early-stage, scientific research at universities, and many venture capital firms and other institutional investors invest in companies seeking to commercialize various types of emerging technologies. It is possible that these companies, which may be more established and have greater resources than we do, and venture funds and institutional investors, as well as possible additional competitors, have financed or will begin to finance nanotechnology research. Should that occur, the Company may not be able to secure the opportunity to finance first-tier research and commercialization projects. Furthermore, should any commercial undertaking by the Company prove to be successful, there can be no assurance competitors with greater financial resources will not offer competitive products and/or technologies. We will need to establish additional relationships with strategic and development partners to fully develop and market our products. The Company does not possess all of the resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from its technologies on a mass scale. Unless the Company expands its product development capacity and enhances its internal marketing, the Company will need to make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to develop and commercialize current and future products. If the Company does not find appropriate partners, or if its existing arrangements or future agreements are not successful, the Company’s ability to develop and commercialize products could be adversely affected. Even if the Company is able to find collaborative partners, the overall success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs will depend largely on the efforts of other parties and is beyond our control. In addition, in the event the Company pursues its commercialization strategy through collaboration, there are a variety of attendant technical, business and legal risks, including: • a development partner would likely gain access to Company proprietary information, potentially enabling the partner to develop products without the Company or design around the Company’s intellectual property; • the Company may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may be willing or able to devote to the development or commercialization of our product candidates or to their marketing and distribution; and • disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts our management’s resources. The occurrence of any of the above risks could impair our ability to generate revenues and harm our business and financial condition. Nanotechnology-enabled products are new and may be viewed as being harmful to human health or the environment. There is public concern regarding the environmental and ethical implications of nanotechnology that could impede market acceptance of products developed through these means. Nanotechnology-enabled products could be composed of materials such as carbon, silicon, silicon carbide, germanium, gallium arsenide, gallium nitride, cadmium selenide or indium phosphide, which may prove to be unsafe or harmful to the environment because of the size, shape or composition of the nanostructures. For this reason, these nanostructures may prove to present risks to human health or the environment that are different from and greater than the better understood risks that may be presented by the constituent materials in non-nanoscale forms. Government authorities in the United States or individual states, and foreign government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the use of some or all nanotechnologies. The regulation and limitation of the kinds of materials used in 20 Table of Contents or used to develop nanotechnology-enabled products, or the regulation of the products themselves, could halt or delay the commercialization of nanotechnology-enabled products or substantially increase the cost, which will impair our ability to achieve revenue from the license of nanotechnology applications. We have entered into technology license agreements with third parties that require us to satisfy obligations to keep them effective, and if these agreements are terminated, our technology and our business would be seriously and adversely affected. Through our Subsidiaries, we have entered into exclusive, long-term license agreements with Rice University, California Institute of Technology, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and other entities to incorporate their proprietary technologies into our proposed products. These license agreements require us to pay royalties and satisfy other conditions, including conditions related to the commercialization of the licensed technology. We cannot give any assurance that sales of products incorporating these technologies will be sufficient to recover the amounts that we are obligated to pay to the licensors. Failure by us to satisfy our obligations under these agreements may result in the modification of the terms of the licenses, such as by rendering them non-exclusive, or may give our licensors the right to terminate their respective agreement with us, which would limit our ability to implement our current business plan and harm our business and financial condition. We rely on outside sources for various components and processes for our products. We rely on third parties for various components and processes for our products, including the manufacture of Calando’s and Insert’s product candidates. While we try to have at least two sources for each component and process, we may not be able to achieve multiple sourcing because there may be no acceptable second source, other companies may choose not to work with us, or the component or process sought may be so new that a second source does not exist, or does not exist on acceptable terms. Therefore, it is possible that the business plans of the Company will have to be slowed down or stopped completely at times due to our inability to obtain required raw materials, components and outsourced processes at an acceptable cost, if at all, or to get a timely response from vendors. We may be unable to scale up our manufacturing processes in a cost effective way. In some cases, nanotechnology will require new technological and manufacturing processes that, at this time, are very expensive and subject to error. There is no assurance that technology and manufacturing processes will expand and improve quickly enough to enable the Company’s targeted products to be made within rigorous tolerances cost effectively. If manufacturing and mass production are not available at a favorable cost, the Company’s technology may not be adopted by the applicable industry. Under such scenario, the Company may not achieve its business plan for one or more processes or products, which could adversely impact the value of our Common Stock. The Company will need approval from governmental authorities in the United States and other countries to successfully realize commercial value from the Company’s activities. In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for commercial use, two of the Company’s current Subsidiaries must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Technology and product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. The time and expense required to perform the necessary testing can vary and is substantial. In addition, no action can be taken to market any biologic, drug or device in the United States until the FDA approves an appropriate marketing application. Furthermore, even after initial FDA approval has been obtained, further trials may be required to obtain additional data on safety and effectiveness. Adverse events that are reported during regulatory trials or after marketing approval can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. Any adverse event, either before or after approval, can result in product liability claims against the Company, which could significantly and adversely impact the value of our Common Stock. 21 Table of Contents If export controls affecting our products are expanded, our business will be adversely affected. The U.S. government regulates the sale and shipment of numerous technologies by U.S. companies to foreign countries. Arrowhead’s Subsidiaries may develop products that might be useful for military and antiterrorism activities. Accordingly, U.S. government export regulations could restrict sales of these products in other countries. If the U.S. government places burdensome export controls on our technology or products, our business would be materially and adversely affected. If the U.S. government determines that we have not complied with the applicable export regulations, we may face penalties in the form of fines or other punishment. Our research and product development efforts pertaining to the pharmaceutical industry are subject to additional risks. Two of our Subsidiaries, Insert and Calando, are focused on research and development projects related to new and improved pharmaceutical conjugates. Drug development is time-consuming, expensive and risky. Even product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early animal and human clinical trials, often fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • clinical trial results are not acceptable, even though preclinical trial results were promising; • inefficacy and/or harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our potential product for the intended use; and • manufacturing and distribution is uneconomical. Clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which often delays, limits, or prevents further clinical development or regulatory approvals of potential products. If Insert and Calando are unable to cost-effectively achieve acceptance of their respective biopharmaceutical technology, or if the associated drug products do not achieve wide market acceptance, the businesses of Insert and Calando will be materially and adversely affected, and the value of the Company’s interest in these Subsidiaries will diminish. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations. The Company’s operations, including its research and development and its commercialization efforts, such as clinical trials, manufacturing and distribution, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on current best practices, we cannot assure you that the Company or its employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations or laws, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a commercialized product, significant fines, sanctions, or litigation, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. The technology licensed by the Company’s Subsidiaries from various third parties may be subject to government rights and retained rights of the originating research institutions. We license technology from Caltech, Rice University, and other universities and companies. Our licensors may have obligations to government agencies or universities. Under their agreements, a government agency or university may obtain certain rights over the technology that we have developed and licensed, including the right to require that a compulsory license be granted to one or more third parties selected by the government agency. In addition, our collaborators often retain certain rights under their agreements with us, including the right to use the underlying technology for noncommercial academic and research use, to publish general scientific findings from research related to the technology, and to make customary scientific and scholarly disclosures of information relating to the technology. It is difficult to monitor whether our collaborators limit their use of the technology to these uses, and we could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights to our licensed technology in the event of misuse. 22 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to protect its patents and other proprietary rights is uncertain, exposing it to the possible loss of competitive advantage. The Company’s Subsidiaries have licensed rights to pending patents and have filed and will continue to file patent applications. The researchers sponsored by the Company may also file patent applications that Arrowhead chooses to license. If a particular patent is not granted, the value of the invention described in the patent would be diminished. Further, even if these patents are granted, they may be difficult to enforce. Even if successful, efforts to enforce our patent rights could be expensive, distracting for management, cause our patents to be invalidated, and frustrate commercialization of products. Additionally, even if patents are issued and are enforceable, others may independently develop similar, superior, or parallel technologies to any technology developed by us, or the Company’s technology may prove to infringe upon patents or rights owned by others. Thus, the patents held by or licensed to us may not afford us any meaningful competitive advantage. If we are unable to derive value from our licensed or owned intellectual property, the value of your investment in the Company may decline. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our potential products. Third parties may claim that our potential products or related technologies infringe their patents. Any patent infringement claims brought against us may cause us to incur significant expenses, divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns and, if successfully asserted against us, require us to pay substantial damages. In addition, as a result of a patent infringement suit, we may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling potential products that are claimed to infringe a patent covering a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants us rights to use its intellectual property. We may be unable to obtain these rights on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we are able to obtain rights to a third party’s patented intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may obtain access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. In addition, if our potential products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, these third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers, and we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer as a result of these claims. The claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. We may not be successful integrating operations of Unidym’s California and Texas locations. Our Subsidiary, Unidym, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Unidym Acquisition LLC, merged with Texas-based Carbon Nanotechnologies, Inc. (“CNI”) through a reverse triangular merger on April 20, 2007. Management may fail to successfully integrate the two companies or realize the expected benefits from the merger. Additionally, it is possible that the merger will have a negative impact on Unidym’s ability to sell carbon nanotubes, commercialize electronic products incorporating carbon nanotubes, and generate revenue. Unidym may be unable to obtain access to carbon nanotubes from other suppliers that may be better suited for Unidym’s electronic products. Similarly, Unidym may lose existing customers or fail to secure prospective customers if those customers believe that Unidym’s plan to manufacture electronic products incorporating carbon nanotubes represents a competitive threat. It is also possible that the costs required to integrate the two companies will be greater than expected. It is anticipated that, in the immediate future, both the Houston, Texas, and Menlo Park, California, facilities will continue to operate. Management will be required to supervise and coordinate activities at two facilities in different states. There may be unanticipated redundancies in the capital equipment and research efforts at each facility. Researchers and product managers at different facilities may not effectively communicate, and the cultures and work environments may differ between facilities. 23 Table of Contents CERTAIN RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE EARLY STAGE OF THE COMPANY’S BUSINESS We are a development stage company and the Company’s success is subject to the substantial risks inherent in the establishment of a new business venture. The implementation of the Company’s business strategy is still in the development stage. We have acquired majority interests in five Subsidiary companies and, through Unidym, one university research project at Duke University and one university research project at the University of Florida. The Company’s business and operations should be considered to be in the development stage and subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business venture. Accordingly, the intended business and operations of the Company may not prove to be successful in the near future, if at all. Any future success that the Company might enjoy will depend upon many factors, several of which may be beyond the control of the Company, or which cannot be predicted at this time, and which could have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition, business prospects and operations of the Company and the value of an investment in the Company. The Company has not generated significant revenues and its business model does not predict significant revenues in the foreseeable future. To date, the Company has only generated a small amount of revenue as a result of its current plan of operations. Moreover, given its strategy of financing new and unproven technology research, we do not expect to realize significant revenue from operations in the foreseeable future, if at all. Failure to effectively manage our growth could place strains on our managerial, operational and financial resources and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Further, as our Subsidiaries’ businesses grow, we will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any further growth by us or our Subsidiaries, or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships will increase this strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. This strain may inhibit our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to implement our business plan, and could have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition, business prospects and operations of the Company and the value of an investment in the Company. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our organization to match the growth of our Subsidiaries. As our Subsidiaries grow, the administrative demands upon the Company will grow, and our success will depend on our ability to meet these demands. These demands include increased accounting, management, legal services, staff support and general office services. We may need to hire additional qualified personnel to meet these demands, the cost and quality of which is dependent in part on market factors beyond our control. Further, we will need to effectively manage the training and growth of our staff to maintain an efficient and effective workforce, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and operating results. We must overcome the many obstacles associated with integrating and operating varying business ventures to succeed. Arrowhead’s model to integrate and oversee the strategic direction of various Subsidiaries and research and development projects presents many risks, including: • the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • the diversion of our management’s attention as a result of evaluating, negotiating and integrating acquisitions or new business ventures. If we are unable to timely and efficiently design and integrate administrative and operational support for our Subsidiaries, we may be unable to manage projects effectively, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our business objectives and the value of an investment in the Company could decline. 24 Table of Contents In addition, consummating acquisitions and taking advantage of strategic relationships could adversely impact our cash position and dilute stockholder interests for many reasons, including: • changes to our income to reflect the amortization of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; • interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred to fund our growth strategy; and • any issuance of securities to fund our operations or growth, which dilutes or lessens the rights of current stockholders. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries have confirmed the value of their assets or business by an independent valuation. The Company is a development stage company and our assets consist mainly of intellectual property, rights and contracts. The Company’s Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market and the trading price of our Common Stock has served as a baseline valuation for Arrowhead Research. However, neither the Company, on a consolidated basis, nor any Subsidiary has sought an independent valuation for their businesses or assets. Traditional methods of valuation include a discounted cash flow analysis and a comparable company analysis. The Company has not generated a positive cash flow to date and does not expect to generate significant cash flow in the near future. Additionally, the Company does not believe that there exist comparable public companies to provide a meaningful valuation comparison. Arrowhead Research’s Subsidiary investments were the result of negotiation with Subsidiary management and equity holders, but the investment valuations were not independent verified. Accordingly, Arrowhead Research may have invested in its various holdings at higher or lower valuations than an independent source would have dictated. Therefore, there may be no correlation between the investment valuations used by Arrowhead Research over the years for its investments and the actual market values. If Arrowhead should eventually sell all or a part of any of its consolidated business or that of a Subsidiary, the ultimate sale price may be for a value substantially lower or higher than previously determined by Arrowhead, which could materially and adversely impair the value of our Common Stock. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the near future, and, if we are unable to secure adequate funds on acceptable terms, the Company may be unable to support its business plan. The Company’s plan of operations is to provide substantial amounts of research project funding and financial support for majority-owned Subsidiaries over an extended period of time. Accordingly, the Company may need to raise additional capital in the near term, and may seek to do so by conducting one or more private placements of equity securities, selling additional securities in a registered public offering, or through a combination of one or more of such financing alternatives. There can be no assurance that any additional capital resources needed by the Company will be available to the Company as and when required, or on favorable terms that will be acceptable to the Company. If the Company is unable to raise the capital required on a timely basis, it may not be able to fund its research projects or the development of the businesses of its Subsidiaries. In such event, the Company may be required to delay or reduce implementation of certain aspects of its plan of operations. Stockholder interest in the Company may be substantially diluted in additional financings by the Company. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of an aggregate of 75,000,000 shares of Common Stock, on such terms and at such prices as the Board of Directors of the Company may determine. As of December 10, 2007, 38,610,420 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding. As of December 10, 2007, 1,615,875 shares and 4,843,667 shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of options granted under Arrowhead’s 2000 Stock Option Plan and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, respectively. As of December 10, 2007, options to purchase 1,615,875 shares were outstanding under the 2000 Stock Option Plan and options to purchase 3,554,048 shares were outstanding under the 2004 Incentive Plan. As of December 10, 2007, the Company had warrants outstanding to purchase 2,109,862 shares of Common Stock that are callable by the Company under certain market conditions. The issuance of additional securities in financing transactions by the Company or 25 Table of Contents through the exercise of options or warrants would dilute the equity interests of the Company’s existing stockholders, perhaps substantially, and might result in dilution in the tangible net book value of a share of our Common Stock, depending upon the price and other terms on which the additional shares are issued. The Company’s success depends on the attraction and retention of senior management and scientists with relevant expertise. The Company’s future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of its key employees, particularly Mr. R. Bruce Stewart, Executive Chairman of Arrowhead, who conceived the Company’s business and overall operating strategy and has been most instrumental in assisting the Company to raise capital. In addition, the Company relies on several key executives to manage each of our Subsidiaries. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance for Mr. Stewart or any other executive. The Company’s ability to execute its strategy also will depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientists, sales, marketing and additional managerial personnel. If we are unable to find, hire and retain qualified individuals, we could have difficulty implementing our business plan in a timely manner, or at all. CERTAIN RISK FACTORS RELATING TO OUR STOCK Arrowhead’s Common Stock price has fluctuated significantly during fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007 and may continue to do so in the future. Because we are a development stage company, there are few objective metrics by which our progress may be measured. Consequently, we expect that the market price of our Common Stock will likely continue to fluctuate significantly. We do not expect to generate substantial revenue from the license or sale of our nanotechnology for several years, if at all. In the absence of product revenue as a measure of our operating performance, we anticipate that investors and market analysts will assess our performance by considering factors such as: • announcements of developments related to our business; • developments in our strategic relationships with scientists within the nanotechnology field; • our ability to enter into or extend investigation phase, development phase, commercialization phase and other agreements with new and/or existing partners; • announcements regarding the status of any or all of our collaborations or products; • market perception and/or investor sentiment regarding nanotechnology as the next technological wave; • announcements regarding developments in the nanotechnology field in general; • the issuance of competitive patents or disallowance or loss of our patent rights; and • quarterly variations in our operating results. We will not have control over many of these factors but expect that they may influence our stock price. As a result, our stock price may be volatile and any extreme fluctuations in the market price of our Common Stock could result in the loss of all or part of your investment. The market for purchases and sales of the Company’s Common Stock may be very limited, and the sale of a limited number of shares could cause the price to fall sharply. Although the Company’s Common Stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Capital Market, currently, our securities are relatively thinly traded. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of Common Stock quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could continue to result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock. 26 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business, of if they make adverse recommendations regarding an investment in our stock, our stock price and trading volume may decline. The trading market for our Common Stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by industry or securities analysts. Investors have many investment opportunities and may limit their investments to companies that receive coverage from analysts. If no industry or securities analysts commence coverage of our Company, the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain industry or security analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively on our prospects, our stock price would likely decline. If one of more of these analysts cease to cover our industry or us or fails to publish reports about our Company regularly, our Common Stock could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could also cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The market price of our Common Stock may be adversely affected by the sale of shares by the Company’s management or founding stockholders. Sales of our Common Stock by our officers, directors and founding stockholders could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of those securities. Additionally, the price of Arrowhead’s Common Stock could be affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our Common Stock or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. Furthermore, due to relatively low trading volume of our stock, should one or more large stockholders seek to sell a significant portion of its stock in a short period of time, the price of our stock may decline. We may be the target of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our Stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on our Common Stock. We will not distribute cash to our stockholders until and unless we can develop sufficient funds from operations to meet our ongoing needs and implement our business plan. The time frame for that is inherently unpredictable, and you should not plan on it occurring in the near future, if at all. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of “blank check” Preferred Stock, which may make an acquisition of our company by another company more difficult. We have adopted and may in the future adopt certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of the Company that a holder of our Common Stock might consider in its best interest. Specifically, the Company’s Board of Directors, without further action by the Company’s stockholders, currently has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares (“blank check” preferred). Such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our Common Stock. As a result, the issuance of the preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents 