ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are a development stage company and we have limited historical operations. We urge you to consider our likelihood of success and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by entities at similar stages of development. The following is a summary of certain risks we face. They are not the only risks we face. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and investors could lose all or part of their investment. In assessing these risks, investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We do not have sufficient cash reserves to fund our activities at their current pace for the next fiscal year. Our plan of operations is to provide substantial amounts of research project funding and financial support for majority-owned Subsidiaries over an extended period of time. Our Board of Directors has adopted a cash conservation strategy that scales back Arrowhead’s financial support for Unidym and Calando at this time. This has influenced Unidym’s shift from capital intensive bulk CNT manufacturing to thin film license and partnerships for electronic ink products. Development of new drug candidates at Calando has slowed during this time as well. We will need to obtain additional capital in the near term to support all of these projects, and we may plan to do so by out-licensing technology, selling one or more of our Subsidiaries, securing funded partnerships, conducting one or more private placements of equity securities of Arrowhead or its subsidiaries, selling additional securities in a registered public offering, or through a combination of one or more of such financing alternatives. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any of these endeavors or, if we are successful that such transactions will be accomplished on favorable terms. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we will be required to engage in additional cash savings by limiting further activities at one or more of our Subsidiaries, or at Arrowhead, which could materially harm our business and our ability to achieve cash flow in the future, including possibly delaying or reducing implementation of certain aspects of our plan of operations or deferring or abandoning research programs. Even if we are successful in raising capital for one area of our business, because Arrowhead and each Subsidiary are separate entities, it could be difficult or impossible to allocate funds as we would like. The current financial market conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. Neither Arrowhead nor its Subsidiaries generate substantial revenue, and, to date, our operations, research and development activities have been funded through the sale of Arrowhead securities and securities of our subsidiaries. Current market conditions could impair our ability to raise the capital we need and if we are unable to secure additional cash resources from the sale of securities or other sources, it could become necessary to slow, interrupt or close down development efforts at Calando or Unidym. In addition, we may have to cut expenses at the Arrowhead level which could impair our ability to manage our business and our Subsidiaries. Even if investment capital is available to us, in the current market, the terms may be onerous and could significantly dilute our ownership interest in either Calando or Unidym. The sale of additional Arrowhead stock to fund operations could result in significant dilution to stockholders. The strategy for eventual monetization of our Subsidiaries could depend on our ability to exit our ownership position each Subsidiary. Exit opportunities could include an initial public offering for the Subsidiary or acquisition of the Subsidiary by another company. Due to the current financial crisis, companies are adopting conservative acquisition strategies and, even if there is interest, may not be able to acquire our Subsidiaries on attractive terms or at all. This could reduce the return we realize on our investment if we sell a Subsidiary. Additionally, the market for initial public offerings is severely limited, which limits public exit opportunities for our Subsidiaries. 15 Table of Contents Our Subsidiaries have entered into technology license agreements with third parties that require us to satisfy obligations to keep them effective, and if these agreements are terminated, our technology and our business would be seriously and adversely affected. Through our subsidiaries, we have entered into exclusive, long-term license agreements with Rice University, California Institute of Technology (Caltech), Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and other entities to incorporate their proprietary technologies into our proposed products. These license agreements require us to pay royalties and satisfy other conditions, including conditions related to the commercialization of the licensed technology. We cannot give any assurance that we will successfully incorporate these technologies into marketable products or, if we do, whether sales will be sufficient to recover the amounts that we are obligated to pay to the licensors. Failure by us to satisfy our obligations under these agreements may result in the modification of the terms of the licenses, such as by rendering them non-exclusive, or may give our licensors the right to terminate their respective agreement with us, which would limit our ability to implement our current business plan and harm our business and financial condition. If Unidym is unable to raise additional cash, Unidym may lose rights to critical intellectual property. There is also the possibility that Unidym investor TEL Ventures will have the right to exercise a put right in July 2009, forcing Unidym to redeem TEL Venture’s Series C-1 Preferred Stock for $2.4 million. Unidym’s potential repurchase obligation is secured by a first priority lien in Unidym’s physical and intellectual property (excluding rights under the Rice license). In the event Unidym is unable to pay TEL Ventures upon exercise of the put right, TEL Ventures will acquire all right, title and interest in the collateral intellectual property and Unidym’s patent protection for its products and its ability to pursue a licensing strategy would be impaired significantly. Further, Unidym is required to meet certain financial covenants pursuant to the Rice University license agreement it acquired upon its acquisition of CNI. When Unidym acquired CNI, CNI possessed intellectual property rights concerning carbon nanotubes that it had licensed from Rice University. The Rice license includes financial covenants tested quarterly for compliance. If Unidym fails to meet the financial covenants, the Rice license automatically terminates. If this should happen, the value of Unidym’s intellectual property portfolio would be significantly and adversely affected and Unidym would likely lose patent protection for its products and licensing opportunities for the majority of its CNT intellectual portfolio. We have debt on our balance sheet, which could have consequences if we were unable to repay the principal or interest due. Calando. Calando has $2.7 million in unsecured convertible promissory notes outstanding of which $1.1 m has been received. The notes bear 10% interest accrued annually and have a two year maturity. Following maturity, the notes become payable on demand. If Calando is unable to meet its obligations to the bearers of the notes after maturity, Arrowhead may also not be in a position to lend Calando sufficient cash to pay such demand notes individually or all at once. Unless other sources of financing become available, this could result in Calando’s insolvency and Calando would be unable to continue operations. Unidym. We have debt on our consolidated balance sheet, including a capital lease obligation acquired in connection with Unidym’s acquisition of Nanoconduction, Inc. The capital lease obligation requires us to pay $1.5 million in 19 monthly payments for capital equipment at Unidym’s Sunnyvale, California location and the equipment itself serves as collateral for the debt. Unidym’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness will depend on its ability to conserve the cash that it has on hand and to generate cash in the future. Neither Unidym nor Arrowhead currently generates significant revenue. Because Unidym does currently have a substantial amount of cash on hand, Unidym might be required divert cash from development activities or to generate cash via debt or equity financing to be able to meet the monthly payment requirements under the capital lease obligation. This, to some extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Also, given the current economic credit crisis, financing options might be limited going forward, which could prevent Unidym from obtaining the necessary funds to pay its indebtedness when due. Because the equipment serves as collateral for the debt, if Unidym is unable to make the monthly payments when due, the lessor of the equipment, at its discretion, may seize the equipment and Unidym would not be able to use the equipment in its development activities. The costs to fund the operations of our Subsidiaries are difficult to predict, and our anticipated expenditures in support of our Subsidiaries may increase for a variety of reasons. It is possible that the completion of our clinical studies could be delayed for a variety of reasons, including difficulties in enrolling patients, delays in manufacturing, incomplete or inconsistent data from the pre-clinical or clinical trials, and difficulties evaluating the trial results. Any delay in completion of a trial would increase the cost of that trial, which would harm the Company’s results of operations. Due to these uncertainties, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the size, nature or timing of the costs to complete or the amount or timing of the net cash inflows from the current activities of any of our biopharmaceutical Subsidiaries or investments. Until the Company obtains further relevant pre-clinical and clinical data, it will not be able to estimate its future expenses related to these programs or when, if ever, and to what extent, the Company will receive cash inflows from resulting products. 16 Table of Contents Development, manufacturing and sale of cost effective electronic products incorporating carbon nanotubes may require significant additional investment and take a long time. It is possible that the development and scale up of Unidym’s carbon nanotube manufacturing effort and its development and scale up of its transparent conductive film products could be delayed for a number of reasons, including unforeseen difficulties with the technology development and delays in adoption of the technology by customers. Any delay would result in additional unforeseen costs, which would harm the Company’s results of operations. Due to these uncertainties, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the size, nature or timing of the costs to complete the development of Unidym’s products or net cash inflows from Unidym’s current activities. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Model and Company We are a development stage company and our success is subject to the substantial risks inherent in the establishment of a new business venture. The implementation of our business strategy is still in the development stage. We currently own majority interests in four subsidiary companies, investments in two early stage biotech companies and, through Unidym, one university research project at Duke University. Our business and operations should be considered to be in the development stage and subject to all of the risks inherent in the establishment of a new business venture. Accordingly, our intended business and operations may not prove to be successful in the near future, if at all. Any future success that we might enjoy will depend upon many factors, several of which may be beyond our control, or which cannot be predicted at this time, and which could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, business prospects and operations and the value of an investment in our company. The costs and effect of consolidating Unidym’s facilities and operations are difficult to predict and could be substantial. Unidym is in the process of consolidating its facilities and operations. Unidym has leased a new facility in Texas that it has decided not to occupy and we cannot predict how long it will take to sublease the property, if it can be subleased at all. The lease on a portion of Unidym’s current facility has been terminated and the facility must be completely vacated in the near future. As part of it lease on its Houston facility, Unidym is obligated to make certain repairs and clean up the facility. In addition, Unidym has two facilities in Northern California, both of which it will continue to occupy until its Sunnyvale, CA facility is retrofitted with all of the capabilities that are needed. The amount of time for which Unidym will be obligated under the various leases and the cost for retrofitting is difficult to estimate, as well as the associated costs. These costs will divert funds from development activities and could place significant financial strain on Unidym and the time required to make the retrofits could result in delay in bringing Unidym’s products to market. The consolidation included some recent reduction in Unidym’s management and technical teams and Unidym plans to make additional cuts in the near future. With these cuts, it is possible that valuable know-how will be lost and that Unidym’s development efforts could be negatively affected. There are substantial inherent risks in attempting to commercialize new technological applications, and, as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop nanotechnology for commercial use. Our company finances research and development of nanotechnology, which is a new and unproven field. Our research scientists are working on developing technology in various stages. However, such technology’s commercial feasibility and acceptance is unknown. Scientific research and development requires significant amounts of capital and takes an extremely long time to reach commercial viability, if at all. To date, our research and development projects have not produced commercially viable applications, and may never do so. During the research and development process, we may experience technological barriers that we may be unable to overcome. For example, our scientists must determine how to design and develop nanotechnology applications for potential products designed by third parties for use in cost-effective manufacturing processes. Because of these uncertainties, it is possible that none of our potential applications will be successfully developed. If we are unable to successfully develop nanotechnology applications for commercial use, we will be unable to generate revenue or build a sustainable or profitable business. We have not generated significant revenues and our business model does not predict significant revenues in the foreseeable future. To date, we have only generated a small amount of revenue as a result of our current plan of operations. Moreover, given our strategy of financing new and unproven technology research, we do not expect to realize significant revenue from operations in the foreseeable future, if at all. We will need to achieve commercial acceptance of our applications to generate revenues and achieve profitability. Even if our research and development yields technologically feasible applications, we may not successfully develop commercial products, and even if we do, we may not do so on a timely basis. If our research efforts are successful on the technology side, it could take at least several years before this technology will be commercially viable. During this period, superior competitive technologies may be introduced or customer needs may change, which will diminish or extinguish the commercial uses for our applications. Because nanotechnology is an emerging field, the degree to which potential consumers will adopt nanotechnology-enabled products is uncertain. We cannot predict when significant commercial market acceptance for nanotechnology-enabled products will develop, if at all, and we cannot reliably estimate the projected size of any such potential market. If markets fail to accept nanotechnology-enabled products, we may not be able to generate revenues from the commercial application of our technologies. Our revenue growth and achievement of profitability will depend substantially on our ability to introduce new technological applications to manufacturers for products accepted by customers. If we are unable to cost-effectively achieve acceptance of our technology among original equipment manufacturers and customers, or if the associated products do not achieve wide market acceptance, our business will be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to scale up our manufacturing processes in a cost effective way. In some cases, nanotechnology will require new technological and manufacturing processes that, at this time, are very expensive and subject to error. There is no assurance that technology and manufacturing processes will expand and improve quickly enough to enable our targeted products to be made within rigorous tolerances cost effectively. If manufacturing and mass production are not available at a favorable cost, our technology may not be adopted by the applicable industry. Under such scenario, we may not achieve our business plan for one or more process or product, which could adversely impact the value of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents We will need to establish additional relationships with strategic and development partners to fully develop and market our products. We do not possess all of the resources necessary to develop and commercialize products that may result from our technologies on a mass scale. Unless we expand our product development capacity and enhance our internal marketing, we will need to make appropriate arrangements with strategic partners to develop and commercialize current and future products. If we do not find appropriate partners, or if our existing arrangements or future agreements are not successful, our ability to develop and commercialize products could be adversely affected. Even if we are able to find collaborative partners, the overall success of the development and commercialization of product candidates in those programs will depend largely on the efforts of other parties and is beyond our control. In addition, in the event we pursue our commercialization strategy through collaboration, there are a variety of attendant technical, business and legal risks, including: • a development partner would likely gain access to our proprietary information, potentially enabling the partner to develop products without us or design around our intellectual property; • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators may be willing or able to devote to the development or commercialization of our product candidates or to their marketing and distribution; and • disputes may arise between us and our collaborators that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts our management’s resources. The occurrence of any of the above risks could impair our ability to generate revenues and harm our business and financial condition. Arrowhead will need to retain a controlling interest, by ownership, contract or otherwise, in Calando and Unidym in order to avoid being deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Companies that have more than 100 U.S. shareholders or are publicly traded in the U.S. or are, or hold themselves out as being, engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities are subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Unless a substantial part of Arrowhead’s assets consists of, and a substantial part of Arrowhead’s income is derived from, interests in majority-owned subsidiaries and companies that it primarily controls, whether by contract or otherwise, Arrowhead may be required to register and become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. Because Investment Company Act regulation is, for the most part, inconsistent with Arrowhead’s strategy of actively managing and operating its portfolio companies, a requirement to operate its business as a registered investment company would restrict our operations and require additional resources for compliance. If Arrowhead is deemed to be, and is required to register as, an investment company, it will be forced to comply with substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act, including: • limitations on its ability to borrow; • limitations on its capital structure; • restrictions on acquisitions of interests in associated companies; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; • restrictions on specific investments; and • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Nanotechnology-enabled products are new and may be viewed as being harmful to human health or the environment. There is public concern regarding the human health, environmental and ethical implications of nanotechnology that could impede market acceptance of products developed through these means. Nanotechnology-enabled products could be composed of materials such as carbon, silicon, silicon carbide, germanium, gallium arsenide, gallium nitride, cadmium selenide or indium phosphide, which may prove to be unsafe or harmful human health or to the environment because of the size, shape or composition of the nanostructures. For this reason, these nanostructures may prove to present risks to human health or the environment that are different from and greater than the better understood risks that may be presented by the constituent materials in non-nanoscale forms. Because of the potential, but at this point unknown, risks associated with certain nanomaterials, government authorities in the United States or individual states, and foreign government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the use of some or all nanotechnologies. The United States Environmental Protection Agency has in that regard recently taken steps towards regulation of the manufacture and use of certain nanotechnology-enabled materials, including those containing carbon nanotubes or nanosilver. Further, in a just-released report, the United States National Academy of Sciences/National Research Council concluded that the U.S. government needs to develop a more robust and coordinated plan for addressing the potential environmental, health, and safety risks of nanomaterials. The regulation and limitation of the kinds of materials used in or used to develop nanotechnology-enabled products, or the regulation of the products themselves, could halt or delay the commercialization of nanotechnology-enabled products or substantially increase the cost, which will impair our ability to achieve revenue from the license of nanotechnology applications. We may not be able to effectively secure first-tier research and development projects when competing against other ventures. We compete with a substantial number of other companies that fund early-stage, scientific research at universities to secure rights to promising technologies. In addition, and many venture capital firms and other institutional investors invest in companies seeking to commercialize various types of emerging technologies. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do. Therefore, we may not be able to secure the opportunity to finance first-tier research and commercialization projects. Furthermore, should any commercial undertaking by us prove to be successful, there can be no assurance competitors with greater financial resources will not offer competitive products and/or technologies. We rely on outside sources for various components and processes for our products. We rely on third parties for various components and processes for our products, including the manufacture of Calando’s product candidates. While we try to have at least two sources for each component and process, we may not be able to achieve multiple sourcing because there may be no acceptable second source, other companies may choose not to work with us, or the component or process sought may be so new that a second source does not exist, or does not exist on acceptable terms. In addition, due to the recent tightening of global credit and the disruption in the financial markets, there may be a disruption or delay in the performance of our third-party contractors, suppliers or collaborators. If such third parties are unable to satisfy their commitments to us, our business would be adversely affected. Therefore, it is possible that our business plans will have to be slowed down or stopped completely at times due to our inability to obtain required raw materials, components and outsourced processes at an acceptable cost, if at all, or to get a timely response from vendors. We must overcome the many obstacles associated with integrating and operating varying business ventures to succeed. Our model to integrate and oversee the strategic direction of various subsidiaries and research and development projects presents many risks, including: • the difficulty of integrating operations and personnel; and • the diversion of our management’s attention as a result of evaluating, negotiating and integrating acquisitions or new business ventures. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to timely and efficiently design and integrate administrative and operational support for our subsidiaries, we may be unable to manage projects effectively, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our business objectives and the value of an investment in our company could decline. In addition, consummating acquisitions and taking advantage of strategic relationships could adversely impact our cash position, and dilute stockholder interests, for many reasons, including: • changes to our income to reflect the amortization of acquired intangible assets, including goodwill; • interest costs and debt service requirements for any debt incurred to fund our growth strategy; and • any issuance of securities to fund our operations or growth, which dilutes or lessens the rights of current stockholders. Failure to effectively manage our growth could place strains on our managerial, operational and financial resources and could adversely affect our business and operating results. Arrowhead provides managerial and operational support for our Subsidiaries. At times over the course of the Company’s development, our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Further, as our subsidiaries’ businesses grow, we will be required to manage multiple relationships. Any further growth by us or our subsidiaries, or an increase in the number of our strategic relationships will increase this strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. This strain may inhibit our ability to achieve the rapid execution necessary to implement our business plan, and could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, business prospects and operations and the value of an investment in our company. In the near term, Arrowhead has consolidated management responsibilities for our Subsidiaries at the Arrowhead level. Failure to effectively manage those responsibilities in light of increased responsibilities and the Company’s financial condition could have a material adverse effect upon the value of the Company. Our success depends on the attraction and retention of senior management and scientists with relevant expertise. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of our key employees. In addition, we rely on several key executives to manage each of our subsidiaries. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of our executives. Our ability to execute our strategy also will depend on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientists, sales, marketing and additional managerial personnel. If we are unable to find, hire and retain qualified individuals, we could have difficulty implementing our business plan in a timely manner, or at all. Members of our senior management team and Board may have a conflict of interest in also serving as officers and/or directors of our Subsidiaries. While we expect that our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of our Subsidiaries will comply with their fiduciary duties owed to our stockholders, they may have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and the minority stockholders of our subsidiaries. Specifically, Dr. Anzalone, our CEO and President is a minority equity holder in and the founder, CEO and board member of Nanotope and Leonardo. To the extent that any of our directors choose to recuse themselves from particular Board actions to avoid a conflict of interest, the other members of our Board will have a greater influence on such decisions. Our research and product development efforts pertaining to the pharmaceutical industry are subject to additional risks. Our subsidiaries, Calando and Tego, as well as minority investments Nanotope and LBS, are focused on research and development projects related to new and improved pharmaceutical candidates. Drug development is time-consuming, expensive and risky. Even product candidates that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early animal and human clinical trials, often fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • clinical trial results are not acceptable, even though preclinical trial results were promising; • inefficacy and/or harmful side effects in humans or animals; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our potential product for the intended use; and • manufacturing and distribution is uneconomical. Clinical trial results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations by scientists, medical personnel, regulatory personnel, statisticians and others, which often delays, limits, or prevents further clinical development or regulatory approvals of potential products. If Calando is unable to cost-effectively achieve acceptance of their respective biopharmaceutical technology, or if the associated drug products do not achieve wide market acceptance, the business of Calando will be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our interest in this subsidiary will diminish. 20 Table of Contents Any drugs developed by our Subsidiaries may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, thereby harming our business. Increasing expenditures for healthcare have been the subject of considerable public attention in the United States. Both private and government entities are seeking ways to reduce or contain healthcare costs. Numerous proposals that would effect changes in the United States healthcare system have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state legislatures, including reductions in the cost of prescription products and changes in the levels at which consumers and healthcare providers are reimbursed for purchases of pharmaceutical products. The ability of Calando, Tego and our minority investments Nanotope and LBS to market products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which third-party payers are willing to reimburse patients for the costs of their products and related treatments. These third-party payers include government authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. In addition, the trend toward managed healthcare and government insurance programs could result in lower prices and reduced demand for the products of these companies. Cost containment measures instituted by healthcare providers and any general healthcare reform could affect their ability to sell products and may have a material adverse effect on them, thereby diminishing the value of the Company’s interest in these Subsidiaries. We cannot predict the effect of future legislation or regulation concerning the healthcare industry and third party coverage and reimbursement on our business. There may be a difference in the investment valuations that we used when making initial and subsequent investments in our Subsidiaries and Minority Investments and actual market values. Our investments in our Subsidiaries and Minority Interests were the result of negotiation with Subsidiary management and equity holders, and the investment valuations were not independently verified. Traditional methods used by independent valuation analysts include a discounted cash flow analysis and a comparable company analysis. We have not generated a positive cash flow to date and do not expect to generate significant cash flow in the near future. Additionally, we believe that there exist comparable public companies to provide a meaningful valuation comparison. Accordingly, we have not sought independent valuation analysis in connection with our investments and may have invested in our various holdings at higher or lower valuations than an independent source would have recommended. There may be no correlation between the investment valuations that we used over the years for our investments and the actual market values. If we should eventually sell all or a part of any of our consolidated business or that of a Subsidiary, the ultimate sale price may be for a value substantially lower or higher than previously determined by us, which could materially and adversely impair the value of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our ability to protect our patents and other proprietary rights is uncertain, exposing us to the possible loss of competitive advantage. Our subsidiaries have licensed rights to pending patents and have filed and will continue to file patent applications. The researchers sponsored by us may also file patent applications that we choose to license. If a particular patent is not granted, the value of the invention described in the patent would be diminished. Further, even if these patents are granted, they may be difficult to enforce. Even if successful, efforts to enforce our patent rights could be expensive, distracting for management, cause our patents to be invalidated, and frustrate commercialization of products. Additionally, even if patents are issued and are enforceable, others may independently develop similar, superior or parallel technologies to any technology developed by us, or our technology may prove to infringe upon patents or rights owned by others. Thus, the patents held by or licensed to us may not afford us any meaningful competitive advantage. If we are unable to derive value from our licensed or owned intellectual property, the value of your investment may decline. Our ability to develop and commercialize products will depend on our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to develop and commercialize products based on their respective patent portfolios, will depend, in part, on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to enforce those patents and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance that any patents that may issue from patent applications owned or licensed by us or any of our subsidiaries will provide sufficient protection to conduct our respective businesses as presently conducted or as proposed to be conducted, or that we or our subsidiaries will remain free from infringement claims by third parties. We may be subject to patent infringement claims, which could result in substantial costs and liability and prevent us from commercializing our potential products. Because the nanotechnology intellectual property landscape is rapidly evolving and interdisciplinary, it is difficult to conclusively assess our freedom to operate without infringing on third party rights. However, we are currently aware of certain patent rights held by third parties that, if found to be valid and 21 Table of Contents enforceable, could be alleged to render one or more of our business lines infringing. If a claim should be brought and is successful, we may be required to pay substantial damages, be forced to abandon any affected business lines and/or seek a license from the patent holder. In addition, any patent infringement claims brought against us or our subsidiaries, whether or not successful, may cause us to incur significant expenses and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from other business concerns. These could negatively affect our results of operations and prospects. There can also be no assurance that patents owned or licensed by us or our subsidiaries will not be challenged by others. In addition, if our potential products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, these third parties may assert infringement claims against our customers, and we may be required to indemnify our customers for any damages they suffer as a result of these claims. The claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of customers, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or may be required to obtain licenses for the products they use. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, we may be unable to continue selling such products. The technology licensed by our Subsidiaries from various third parties may be subject to government rights and retained rights of the originating research institutions. We license technology from Caltech, Rice University, and other universities and companies. Our licensors may have obligations to government agencies or universities. Under their agreements, a government agency or university may obtain certain rights over the technology that we have developed and licensed, including the right to require that a compulsory license be granted to one or more third parties selected by the government agency. In addition, our collaborators often retain certain rights under their agreements with us, including the right to use the underlying technology for noncommercial academic and research use, to publish general scientific findings from research related to the technology, and to make customary scientific and scholarly disclosures of information relating to the technology. It is difficult to monitor whether our collaborators limit their use of the technology to these uses, and we could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights to our licensed technology in the event of misuse. Risks Related to Regulation of Our Products We will need approval from governmental authorities in the United States and other countries to successfully realize commercial value from our activities. In order to clinically test, manufacture and market products for commercial use, two of our current subsidiaries and both of our investments must satisfy mandatory procedures and safety and effectiveness standards established by various regulatory bodies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. Technology and product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves the expenditure of substantial resources. The time and expense required to perform the necessary testing can vary and is substantial. In addition, no action can be taken to market any biologic, drug or device in the United States until the FDA approves an appropriate marketing application. Furthermore, even after initial FDA approval has been obtained, further trials may be required to obtain additional data on safety and effectiveness. Adverse events that are reported during regulatory trials or after marketing approval can result in additional limitations being placed on a product’s use and, potentially, withdrawal of the product from the market. Any adverse event, either before or after approval, can result in product liability claims against us, which could significantly and adversely impact the value of our common stock. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations. Our operations, including our research and development and our commercialization efforts, such as clinical trials, manufacturing and distribution, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program, we cannot assure you that our company or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal and state regulations or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations or laws, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a commercialized product, significant fines, sanctions, or litigation, any of which could harm our business and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents In order to avoid regulation under the Investment Company Act, Arrowhead may choose to make additional pro rata investments in Unidym to maintain a controlling interest. If export controls affecting our products are expanded, our business will be adversely affected. The U.S. government regulates the sale and shipment of numerous technologies by U.S. companies to foreign countries. Our subsidiaries may develop products that might be useful for military and antiterrorism activities. Accordingly, U.S. government export regulations could restrict sales of these products in other countries. If the U.S. government places burdensome export controls on our technology or products, our business would be materially and adversely affected. If the U.S. government determines that we have not complied with the applicable export regulations, we may face penalties in the form of fines or other punishment. Risks Related to our Stock Stockholder equity interest may be substantially diluted in additional financings. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of 70,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, on such terms and at such prices as our board of directors may determine. As of September 30, 2008, 42,934,517 shares of common stock and no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. As of September 30, 2008, 1,559,000 shares and 4,738,310 shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of options granted under our 2000 Stock Option Plan, or 2000 Plan, and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, or 2004 Plan, respectively. As of September 30, 2008, options to purchase 1,559,000 shares were outstanding under our 2000 Plan and options to purchase 4,710,322 shares were outstanding under our 2004 Plan. In addition, an inducement grant of an option to purchase 2,000,000 shares of common stock was issued to our CEO as part of his compensation package. As of September 30, 2008, we had warrants outstanding to purchase 5,973,851 shares of common stock that are callable by us under certain market conditions. The issuance of additional securities in financing transactions by us or through the exercise of options or warrants would dilute the equity interests of our existing stockholders, perhaps substantially, and might result in dilution in the tangible net book value of a share of our common stock, depending upon the price and other terms on which the additional shares are issued. Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly during fiscal 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2008 and may continue to do so in the future. Because we are a development stage company, there are few objective metrics by which our progress may be measured. Consequently, we expect that the market price of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate significantly. We do not expect to generate substantial revenue from the license or sale of our nanotechnology for several years, if at all. In the absence of product revenue as a measure of our operating performance, we anticipate that investors and market analysts will assess our performance by considering factors such as: • announcements of developments related to our business; • developments in our strategic relationships with scientists within the nanotechnology field; • our ability to enter into or extend investigation phase, development phase, commercialization phase and other agreements with new and/or existing partners; • announcements regarding the status of any or all of our collaborations or products; • market perception and/or investor sentiment regarding nanotechnology as the next technological wave; • announcements regarding developments in the nanotechnology field in general; • the issuance of competitive patents or disallowance or loss of our patent rights; and • quarterly variations in our operating results. We will not have control over many of these factors but expect that they may influence our stock price. As a result, our stock price may be volatile and any extreme fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could result in the loss of all or part of your investment. The market for purchases and sales of our common stock may be very limited, and the sale of a limited number of shares could cause the price to fall sharply. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, our securities are currently relatively thinly traded. Our current solvency concerns could serve to exacerbate the thin trading of our securities. For example, mandatory sales of our common stock by institutional holders could be triggered if an investment in our common stock no longer satisfies their investment standards and guidelines as a result of the solvency concerns. Accordingly, it may be difficult to sell shares of common stock quickly without significantly depressing the value of the stock. Unless we are successful in developing continued investor interest in our stock, sales of our stock could continue to result in major fluctuations in the price of the stock. Moreover, our stock price has generally been declining for the last 12 months. Although our common stock had a closing market price of $1.33 as of December 12, 2008, our stock had a closing market value of less than $1.00 at various points in October 2008, which is in violation of Nasdaq’s standard continued listing requirements. Nasdaq has temporarily suspended the enforcement of rules requiring a minimum $1.00 closing bid price, but this suspension is currently only in effect through January 16, 2009. Given the volatility of our stock price, there is no guarantee that we will be in compliance with Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements when this suspension is lifted. If our stock is trading below $1.00 when the temporary suspension is lifted, Nasdaq may commence delisting procedures against us. If we were to be delisted, the market liquidity of our common stock would likely be adversely affected and the market price of our common stock would likely decrease. Such a delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and could result in a loss of confidence by investors, suppliers and employees. In addition, our stockholders’ ability to trade or obtain quotations on our shares could be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask price for our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business, or if they make adverse recommendations regarding an investment in our stock, our stock price and trading volume may decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business. We do not currently have and may never obtain research coverage by industry or securities analysts. Investors have many investment opportunities and may limit their investments to companies that receive coverage from analysts. If no industry or securities analysts commence coverage of our company, the trading price of our stock could be negatively impacted. In the event we obtain industry or security analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts downgrade our stock or comment negatively on our prospects, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our industry or us or fails to publish reports about our company regularly, our common stock could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could also cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by the sale of shares by our management or founding stockholders. Sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and founding stockholders could adversely and unpredictably affect the price of those securities. Additionally, the price of our common stock could be affected even by the potential for sales by these persons. We cannot predict the effect that any future sales of our common stock, or the potential for those sales, will have on our share price. Furthermore, due to relatively low trading volume of our stock, should one or more large stockholders seek to sell a significant portion of its stock in a short period of time, the price of our stock may decline. We may be the target of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often initiated securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. We do not intend to declare cash dividends on our common stock. We will not distribute cash to our stockholders until and unless we can develop sufficient funds from operations to meet our ongoing needs and implement our business plan. The time frame for that is inherently unpredictable, and you should not plan on it occurring in the near future, if at all. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of “blank check” preferred stock, which may make an acquisition of our company by another company more difficult. We have adopted and may in the future adopt certain measures that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a takeover or other change in control of our company that a holder of our common stock might consider in its best interest. Specifically, our board of directors, without further action by our stockholders, currently has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to fix the rights (including voting rights), preferences and privileges of these shares (“blank check” preferred). Such preferred stock may have rights, including economic rights, senior to our common stock. As a result, the issuance of the preferred stock could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock and could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 