ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Report, you should carefully consider the risks described below that could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. These risks are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Potential Alltel Sale Our pending sale of our Alltel assets is subject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. On January 21, 2013, we entered into an agreement with AT&T Mobility LLC ("AT&T") to sell AT&T the assets used in our Alltel business (the "Alltel Sale"). Consummation of our Alltel Sale is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including approval by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") of the assignment and change in control of certain licenses and authorizations. 19 Table of Contents Although we have received no indication that the FCC does not plan to grant the required approval, there can be no guarantee that we will receive approval. In addition, the FCC may impose conditions on any approval, such as requiring the divestiture of certain markets and spectrum licenses. These conditions, if imposed and if sufficiently significant, may permit AT&T not to consummate the transaction or may have other negative impacts on our business. In the event that we are unable to consummate the Alltel Sale, we could face further net subscriber and employee losses, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Until we are able to consummate the Alltel Sale, we will continue to face the other risks described below in "Risks Relating to Our U.S. Retail Wireless Business." Following our Alltel Sale, our reliance on revenues derived from services in our International Integrated Telephony and Island Wireless segments will substantially increase. Revenues derived from our Alltel business generated approximately 50% of our wholesale revenues and were approximately 63% of our total consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. If we successfully complete the Alltel Sale, our wholesale revenues will substantially decrease, and approximately 35% of our total consolidated revenues will be derived from our U.S. wholesale business, 35% from our International Integrated Telephony segment in Guyana and 30% from all other segments. As a result, our exposure to political and regulatory uncertainty in Guyana and the Caribbean will have a greater impact on our revenues as a whole. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to find growth or expansion opportunities in the United States or other jurisdictions that provide more regulatory or political certainty to our investors. Risks relating to our U.S. Retail Wireless Business We may not be successful in increasing our customer base which would negatively affect our business plans and financial outlook. In 2011, we separated our acquired Alltel network from the legacy Verizon Wireless/Alltel network. This required us to transition or "re-home" some of the acquired field network facilities to newly built, or other newly acquired, switching and other core network facilities and integrate and align numerous business and work processes such as customer billing, by building and designing our own processes and the information systems necessary to track and handle those processes. This integration process, though successful, posed many challenges and contributed to substantial net subscriber loss caused by the separation of these facilities from a broader historic footprint and by challenges created by the rapid growth in mobile data demand and usage, from 800,000 subscribers as of April 2010 to 588,000 subscribers as of December 31, 2012. In 2012, we began to experience net prepaid subscriber gains, however, we continue to lose postpaid subscribers and are unlikely to make up the difference in subscribers lost in the past few years. Our rates of customer acquisition and turnover are affected by a number of factors described in detail below, including the size of our service areas, network performance and reliability issues, our device and service offerings, customer perceptions of our services and customer care quality. Managing these factors and customers' expectations is essential in attracting and retaining customers. Although we have implemented programs to attract new customers and address customer turnover, we cannot be certain that these programs will be successful. A high rate of customer turnover or low rate of new customer acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intense competition in the U.S. retail wireless industry and our smaller scale, relative to larger national or regional wireless carriers, could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Competition in the U.S. retail wireless industry is currently intense and could intensify further due to the general effects of a weak economy, as well as due to wireless industry factors such as increased market saturation and aggressive price reductions. Our main competitors are national or global 20 Table of Contents telecommunications companies that are much larger than us. These carriers possess greater resources and much greater economies of scale that afford them a significant cost advantage in most areas of our business. The national carriers can deploy new network technologies, such as faster 4G LTE data networks, and mobile handsets and devices more rapidly and at a lower cost. The national and larger regional carriers typically also have broader radio spectrum holdings, giving them the ability to launch multiple technologies and to devote more bandwidth to a given voice or data service, affording customers a higher peak experience of data speeds and less blocking of calls or data sessions. Due to our smaller scale, we may be unable to compete successfully with larger companies that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, purchasing and distribution resources, which could adversely affect our revenues and costs of doing business. In particular, our business depends on our access to new handsets and other devices, and to a lesser extent, content for data, music or video services, being developed by vendors. Because of their buying power and the relationships they have created with vendors, the large national carriers have a significant advantage in pushing the development of new technologies and taking advantage of those technologies. For example, in the past, they have entered into deals with device vendors giving them the exclusive right to sell the latest mobile devices for a period of time. If we are unable to obtain new handsets desired by our customers at favorable pricing and quantities as a result of our smaller purchasing resources or obtain timely access to content for data, music or video services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of handsets, accessories, equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our handset lineup, network infrastructure and our back-office IT systems infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber or revenue growth and operating results could suffer significantly. We source wireless devices from a small number of handset resellers and to a lesser extent, equipment manufacturers and depend on access to compelling devices at reasonable prices on primary and secondary markets for these devices, as well as timely delivery of devices to meet market demands. The inability to provide a competitive device lineup, as discussed with respect to increased competition risks above, could materially impact our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers. We are also reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Ericsson, Motorola, Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia in the United States. If it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms on a timely basis. Due to the non-contiguous nature of our U.S. wireless network, if we are unable to expand our network and obtain the roaming services we need from other carriers to operate competitively, our profitability and other results of operations could be adversely affected. The wireless assets that we acquired in the acquisition of our Alltel business were historically operated as part of a national network whose customers valued nationwide coverage and support. However, because these assets were required to be divested from Verizon's purchase of Alltel Corporation, many of our retail markets that we acquired in the divestiture from Verizon are now non-contiguous and require network expansion, improvements and roaming support to ensure ongoing nationwide coverage. We believe broad regional or nationwide coverage remains important to a large portion of our customer base. 21 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have regional or national networks that enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. We currently have roaming agreements in place with several larger carriers, including Verizon Wireless, our main competitor, as well as other regional and national carriers. This enables us to offer our customers regional and national rate plans that include areas for which we do not own wireless licenses. We expect that we will continue to be highly dependent on the roaming services we use from a mix of our competitors and other carriers. If we are unable to obtain or maintain roaming agreements with other wireless carriers that contain pricing and other terms that are competitive and acceptable to us and that satisfy our quality and interoperability requirements, we may no longer be able to offer these regional and national rate plans and the coverage area and pricing we offer to our customers may not be as attractive relative to the offers from our competitors and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our network capacity and customer service systems may not be adequate and may not expand quickly enough to support our customer growth. Our financial and operational success depends on ensuring that we have adequate network capacity to accommodate anticipated new customers and the related increase in usage of our network. This includes capacity on our wireless and wireline networks and capacity on our inter- and intra-network transport facilities. Our failure to expand and upgrade our networks and transport facilities to meet the increased usage could impair our quality of service, cause a decline in customer satisfaction and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our retail wireless network capacity plans generally rely on the following: •the ability to obtain and construct additional cell sites and other infrastructure equipment; •the ability to secure adequate transport capacity between our cell sites and our network switching and routing platforms and between those platforms and the Internet and other carriers. •the ability to obtain additional spectrum when required; and •the ability to obtain the capital to expand and upgrade our network. In addition, we must implement, manage and monitor effective procedures for customer activation, customer service, billing and other support services. Reliance on our customer service and handset procurement functions increases as we add new customers and offer new services and pricing plans. Our failure to timely and efficiently meet the demands for these services could decrease or slow subscriber growth or delay or otherwise impede billing and collection of amounts owed, which would adversely affect our revenue. We cannot make assurances that our customer service systems and network capacity will expand and adapt quickly enough to keep up with our anticipated customer growth and changes in services, and failure to do so would impair our ability to compete, which would adversely affect our results and financial operations. Rapid and significant technological changes in the telecommunications industry may adversely affect us. Our industry faces rapid and significant changes in technology that directly impact our business, including the following: •evolving industry standards; •requirements resulting from changing regulatory regimes; •the allocation of new radio frequency spectrum in which to license and operate advanced wireless services; •ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology; 22 Table of Contents •changes in end-user requirements and preferences; •convergence between video and data services; •development of data and broadband capabilities and rapidly expanding demand for those capabilities; and •migration to new-generation services such as LTE or "4G" network technology, which may require the purchase of additional spectrum. For us to keep up with these technological changes and remain competitive, at a minimum we will be required to continue to make significant capital expenditures to add to our networks' capacity, coverage and technical capability. For example, we have spent considerable amounts adding higher speed, higher capacity mobile data services to many of our networks in recent years and we think it likely that more such expenditures will be needed over the next few years. For our U.S. wireless network, we are currently evaluating the feasibility of adding LTE mobile data technologies, mainly to our retail network. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. Alternative or new technologies may be developed that provide communications services superior to those available from us, which may adversely affect our business. For example, to accommodate the demand by our wholesale wireless customers for next-generation advanced wireless products such as high-speed data and streaming video, we may be required to purchase additional spectrum, however, we have had difficulty finding spectrum for sale or on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, usage of wireless voice or broadband services in excess of our expectations could strain our capacity, causing service disruptions and result in higher operating costs and capital expenditures. In each of our markets, providing more and higher speed data services through our wireless or wireline networks may require us to make substantial investments in additional telecommunications transport capacity connecting our networks to the Internet, and in some cases such capacity may not be available to us on attractive terms or at all. Failure to provide these services or to upgrade to new technologies could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with carriers in our markets. Increased customer demand for data coverage and usage may be difficult to support. Our most popular plans bundle a fixed quantity of data services with unlimited local and U.S. long distance service and unlimited text messaging, 411 services, navigation and data back-up, for a flat monthly fee. Our competitors offer similar plans. Approximately half of our current handset lineup offers "smartphones" and other similar devices, which allow customers to send and receive data files and use greater amounts of network capacity than the feature phones we offer. As demand for these smartphones and data services continues to grow, our value to our wireless customers depends in part on our network's ability to provide high-quality service to smartphone devices. If customers exceed expected usage for our voice or data services, we could face capacity problems and our costs of providing the services could increase. Although we own less spectrum in our markets than our competitors, we continue to assess and seek to implement technological improvements to increase the efficiency of our wireless spectrum. We currently fix the amount of data used on a monthly basis per customer through our contract plans and will assess additional fees if usage exceeds contractual thresholds. However, if data usage increases faster than we anticipate and exceeds the then-available capacity of our network, our roaming costs may be higher than we anticipate or the quality of our service may be negatively affected, compelling us to increase our prices or alter our service offerings. As demand for advanced mobile data services continues to grow, we may have difficulty satisfying our retail customers and those of our wholesale roaming partners without substantial upgrades and additional capital expenditures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents We may be unable to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost or on a timely basis. Due to the non-contiguous nature of our network and the increasing demand for data services described above, we may be required to acquire additional spectrum in our current and other markets. Due to the dearth of available spectrum in our industry, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all or that additional spectrum will be made available by the FCC through auction or other means on a timely or economical basis. If such additional spectrum is not available to us on reasonable terms or at a reasonable cost, our ability to maintain or grow our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to our U.S. Wholesale Wireless Business A significant portion of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenue is derived from our U.S. retail wireless network. A large portion of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenues, which accounted for approximately 27% of our consolidated revenue in 2012, is generated from roaming on our U.S. retail wireless network. If we are able to successfully complete our Alltel Sale, we will lose a substantial portion of wholesale wireless revenue, which we are unlikely to offset by growth in our other wholesale networks in the U.S. A significant portion of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenue is derived from a small number of customers. A substantial majority of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenues, which accounted for approximately 27% of our consolidated revenue in 2012 (and is likely to account for a higher percentage if the Alltel Sale is completed), are generated from four national wireless service providers. Our relationships with our roaming customers generally are much more financially significant for us than for our customers. Typically, our relationships with our roaming customers do not require them to "prefer" our networks or require them to send us a minimum amount of traffic. Instead, roaming customers may choose to utilize other networks, if available, for their subscribers' roaming use. If our markets currently included in our roaming partners' home calling areas are instead subject to the imposition of additional roaming charges or if we fail to keep any of our roaming customers satisfied with our service offerings or economic terms, we could lose their business, experience less roaming traffic or be unable to renew or enter into new agreements with these customers on beneficial terms (including pricing), resulting in a substantial loss of revenue, which would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these customers build or acquire wireless networks in our service areas we may lose revenue. Should any of these customers take such actions over a significant portion of the areas we serve, it may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the acquisition by Verizon Wireless of Alltel Corporation assets, and subsequent acquisition of divested Alltel assets by AT&T, in the past resulted in each of AT&T and Verizon gaining their own infrastructure in markets where they were formerly served by us, negatively impacting our revenue. Risks Relating to Our Wireless and Wireline Services in Guyana Our exclusive license to provide local exchange and international voice and data services in Guyana is subject to significant political and regulatory risk. Since 1991, our subsidiary Guyana Telephone and Telegraph, Ltd. ("GT&T") has operated in Guyana pursuant to a license from the Government of Guyana to be the exclusive provider of domestic fixed and international voice and data services pursuant to a license with an initial term ending in December 2010, which was renewable at our sole option for an additional 20 year term. In November 2009, we notified the Government of Guyana of our election to renew our exclusive license for an additional 20 years. On December 15, 2010, we received correspondence from the Government of Guyana indicating that our licenses had been renewed until such time that new legislation is in place with regard to the Government's intention to expand competition within the sector; however, we 24 Table of Contents believe our exclusive license continues to be valid unless and until such time as we enter into a negotiated settlement with the Government. Since 2001, the Government of Guyana has stated its intention to introduce additional competition into Guyana's telecommunications sector. Since that time, we have met on several occasions with officials of the Government of Guyana to discuss potential modifications of our exclusivity and other rights under the existing agreement. In 2012, the Government of Guyana introduced a bill into Parliament draft legislation, regulations, and licenses that, if enacted, would have the effect of terminating our exclusive license by permitting other telecommunications carriers to receive licenses to provide domestic fixed services and international voice and data services in Guyana. The Draft Laws would also introduce material changes to many other features of Guyana's existing telecommunications regulatory regime. We cannot predict when or if the proposed legislation will be adopted by Parliament or, if adopted and then signed into law by the President, the manner in which it would be implemented by the Minister of Telecommunications and the PUC. Although we believe that we would be entitled to damages or other compensation for any involuntary termination of our contractual exclusivity rights, we cannot guarantee that we would prevail in a proceeding to enforce our rights or that such actions would effectively halt any unilateral action by the Government. We are dependent on GT&T for a moderate portion of our revenues and profits, and if we consummate our Alltel Sale, we will be dependent on GT&T for approximately 35% of our total consolidated revenues. A loss of exclusivity on international voice and data service would result in a reduction in the international call traffic and as a result, a loss in that portion of our wireline revenue. Any modification, early termination or other revocation of the exclusive domestic fixed and international voice and data license could adversely affect our revenues and profits and diminish the value of our investment in Guyana. Other Risks Relating to Our Businesses and Industry Our wireless and wireline revenues depend on the reliability and performance of our network infrastructure. We must operate our wireless and wireline networks so as to minimize any disruption that may occur to our services. The continued operation and growth of our networks and the implementation of new technologies and services involve operating risks that may disrupt our services and cause losses in revenue. Other risks that may also cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers include power loss, capacity limitations, software defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. Disruptions in our networks and the unavailability of our services could lead to a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and violation of the terms of our licenses and contracts with customers. These failures could also lead to significant negative publicity, regulatory problems and litigation. The loss of certain licenses would adversely affect our ability to provide wireless and broadband services. In the United States, wireless, PCS and microwave licenses are valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses in the U.S. expire between 2015 and 2019. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and are put out for public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. Failure to file for renewal of these licenses or failure to meet any licensing requirements could lead to a denial of the renewal application and thus adversely affect our ability to continue to provide service in that license area. Furthermore, our compliance with regulatory requirements such as enhanced 911 and CALEA requirements may depend on the availability of necessary equipment or software. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. 25 Table of Contents Regulatory changes may impose restrictions that adversely affect us or cause us to incur significant unplanned costs in modifying our business plans or operations. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations and foreign government regulations, all of which are subject to change. As new telecommunications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. We cannot be certain that we can do so in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the failure to comply with applicable governmental regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or authorizations to operate, the assessment of penalties or fines or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our operations in the United States are subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (or "1996 Act"). The interpretation and implementation of the provisions of the 1996 Act and the FCC rules implementing the 1996 Act continue to be heavily debated and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, although legislation has not yet been introduced, there have been indications that Congress may substantially revise the 1996 Act and other regulation in the next few years. While we believe we are in compliance with federal and state regulatory requirements, our interpretation of our obligations may differ from those of regulatory authorities. Both federal and state regulators require us to pay various fees and assessments, file periodic reports and comply with various rules regarding our consumer marketing practices and the contents of our bills, on an on-going basis. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines or potentially be asked to show cause as to why our certificate of authority to provide service should not be revoked. Changes in Universal Service Fund ("USF") funding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. In November 2011, the FCC released an order reforming the USF program to phase out the current level of high-cost USF support for wireless carriers over a period of five years, beginning in 2012. Our high cost USF support, which was $10.0 for the year ended December 31, 2011, was reduced by 20% starting in July 2012 and will be further reduced by 20% in July of each subsequent year. We received $10.5 million in high cost USF support for the year ended December 31, 2012. As part of the USF reforms, the FCC created two new replacement funds, the Connect America Fund and the Mobility Fund, both of which allow for the use of USF funds for broadband services, in addition to voice services. The new funds are intended to provide targeted financial support to areas that are unserved or underserved by voice and broadband service providers and will be initiated during the phase out of USF support. During this five year phase-out period, the FCC will begin to distribute funds through new mechanisms associated with the Connect America Fund and the Mobility Fund. In July 2012, the FCC initiated the application process for the Mobility Fund I program, a reverse auction for a one-time distribution of up to $300 million intended to stimulate third- and fourth-generation wireless coverage in unserved and underserved geographic areas. A number of our subsidiaries participated in the Mobility Fund I reverse auction on September 27, 2012 and bid successfully for approximately $68 million, collectively, of support. Although receipt of the Mobility Fund I support is still subject to additional filing requirements, including letters of credit and final FCC approval, our Alltel business expects to receive approximately $47 million and our wholesale wireless business expects to receive approximately $21.7 million in support beginning in 2013 to expand voice and broadband networks in certain geographic areas in order to offer either 3G or 4G coverage. As part of the receipt of these funds, we committed to comply with certain additional FCC construction and other requirements, including completing our network buildsto provide 3G or 4G service to these areas within two or three years, respectively, and making our network available to other providers for roaming. Although we currently have not received any of the grant funds to date, we expect to receive support funding primarily upon achievement of coverage milestones defined in the auction rules. We cannot currently predict the net effect of the FCC's changes to the USF support program and our receipt of Mobility Fund grants on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Increased competition may adversely affect growth, require increased capital expenditures, result in the loss of existing customers and decrease our revenues. We face competition in the markets in which we operate. For example: •In the United States, we compete with national and regional retail wireless providers that offer both prepaid and postpaid services and resellers of prepaid services whose scale, resources and U.S. network footprint are generally significantly greater than ours. If we cannot continue to provide competitive pricing or updated mobile voice and data services to our customers through roaming arrangements or the expansion of our own network, we could experience increased churn, net subscriber reductions or reduced revenue in our U.S. retail wireless business. •The greatest competitive risk to our wholesale roaming business is the possibility that our current customers may elect to build or enhance their own networks within the rural market in which we currently provide service, which is commonly known as "over-building." If our roaming customers, who generally have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do, determine to over-build our network, their need for our roaming services will be significantly reduced or eliminated. •In Guyana, we have faced competition from Digicel, a wireless service provider operating across the region that has been very aggressive in acquiring a substantial share of the market. •In Bermuda and the Caribbean, we compete against Digicel and in Turks and Caicos, we compete with the incumbent wireless service provider as well. •In New England and New York State, in addition to other competitive voice and data communications service providers, we compete with much larger regional carriers, each of which has greater financial and other resources. Over the last several years, an increase in competition has contributed to a decline in prices for communication services, including local and long distance telephone service, data services and mobile wireless services. Increased competition may decrease prices further. In addition, increased competition could reduce our customer base, require us to invest in new facilities and capabilities and reduce revenues, margins and returns. Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position. Our operations in Bermuda and the Caribbean may face adverse financial consequences and operational problems due to foreign political or economic changes, such as changes in national or regional political or economic conditions, laws and regulations that restrict repatriation of earnings or other funds, or changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Any of these changes could adversely affect our revenues or financial position. If we lose our senior management, our business may be adversely affected; we rely on local management to run our operating units. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers and the officers of our operating units, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, strong competition for qualified personnel in the communications industry and in our markets, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our key employees and none of the executives at our parent company are under employment agreements. 27 Table of Contents We rely heavily on local management to run our operating units. Many of the markets we operate in are small and somewhat isolated, and therefore, it is particularly difficult attracting and retaining talented and qualified managers and staff in those markets. An economic downturn experienced by our subscriber base could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. The global economy could experience an economic downturn due to a crisis in credit markets, slower economic activity, increased unemployment, concerns about inflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence and other adverse business conditions. For example, among other things: •A decrease in tourism could negatively affect revenues and growth opportunities from operations in the islands and in a number of areas covered by U.S. rural and wholesale wireless operations that serve tourist destinations. •An increase in "bad debt", or the amounts that we have to write off of our accounts receivable could result from our inability to collect subscription fees from our subscribers. •We rely on the population of Guyanese living abroad who initiate calls to Guyana or are responsible for remittances to relatives living in Guyana. A prolonged economic downturn in the U.S. or Canadian economies could affect inbound calling and, therefore, our revenue in Guyana. The impact, if any, that these events might have on us and our business is uncertain and cannot be estimated at this time. The occurrence of severe weather and natural catastrophes may materially disrupt our operations. Many of the areas in which we operate have experienced severe weather conditions over the years including hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, damaging storms and floods. Some areas in which we operate may also be at risk of earthquakes. Such events may materially disrupt and adversely affect our business operations. A major hurricane passed directly over Bermuda in 2003 causing major damage to our network and to the island's infrastructure. In 2008, a hurricane caused extensive damage on a small portion of the U.S. Virgin Islands and a separate hurricane negatively affected operations in the Turks and Caicos. Guyana has suffered from severe rains and flooding in the past as well. While these events have not had a significant negative impact on the operating results or financial condition of the affected businesses or our overall business, we cannot be sure that these types of events will not have such an impact in the future or that the insurance coverage we maintain for these risks will adequately compensate us for all damage and economic losses resulting from natural catastrophes. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility. Our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability to do the following: •incur additional debt; •create liens or negative pledges with respect to our assets; •pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock; •make investments, loans or advances or other forms of payments; •issue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries; •enter into transactions with affiliates; or 28 Table of Contents •merge, consolidate or sell our assets. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the credit facility or any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate the repayment of the related debt and may result in the acceleration of the repayment of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, these creditors may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds. If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the credit facility, the lenders could foreclose on and acquire control of substantially all of our assets. In connection with the incurrence of the indebtedness under the credit facility, the lenders received a pledge of our share of the capital stock of all of our subsidiaries, and, with some limited exceptions, are entitled to a pledge of the capital stock of any subsidiaries that we may acquire in the future. Additionally, the lenders under our credit facility generally have a lien on all of our U.S. assets and certain of our non-U.S. assets. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the credit facility (including meeting or exceeding certain financial measurements), the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on and liquidate substantially all of our assets, to the extent required to pay our obligations under the credit facility. As a result, the holders of our securities may lose a portion of, or the entire value of, their investment in our securities. Our Chairman is our largest stockholder and will continue to exert significant influence over us. Cornelius B. Prior, Jr., our Chairman and the father of our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns, together with related entities and affiliates approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, he is able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. In addition, as our Chairman, he has and will continue to have significant influence over other matters brought before our Board of Directors, such as proposed changes in our strategy or business plans and our major financing decisions. His interests may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Low trading volume of our stock may limit our shareholders ability to sell shares and/or result in lower sale prices. For the three months prior to March 1, 2013, the average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 77,000 shares. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at a price that might be attainable if our common stock were more actively traded. In addition, the market price of our common stock may not be reflective of its underlying value. We may not pay dividends in the future. Our stockholders may receive dividends out of legally available funds if, and when, they are declared by our Board of Directors. We have consistently paid quarterly dividends in the past, but may cease to do so at any time. Our credit facility limits our ability to pay dividends on, or repurchase, our capital stock. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future that may further restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. We may also be restricted from paying dividends in the future due to restrictions imposed by applicable state laws, our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, covenants contained in our financing agreements, management's assessment of future capital needs and other factors considered by our Board of Directors. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 