Risk Factors Investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below and other information included in this report. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks. Investors in our securities could lose all or part of their investment as a result of any such decline. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties; please see “Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.” Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below. 17 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry We operate in a very competitive business environment, which may result in the loss of existing customers and our inability to attract new customers. Our principal business, wireless telephone service, is highly competitive. In the United States, we usually compete against four or five other wireless carriers in the markets we serve. PCS operators have continued to build out their networks in our service areas and we expect this trend to continue. In Puerto Rico, we compete against five other wireless carriers and in the Dominican Republic we compete against three other wireless carriers. Additional competitors may enter any of our markets in the future. Many of our existing competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources than we do, are less leveraged than we are and have more extensive coverage areas than we do. Consolidation in the wireless industry has created and may continue to create even stronger competitors. Competition for customers is based principally upon services and features offered, system coverage, technical quality of the wireless system, price, customer service and network capacity. Some competitors may market services we do not offer, including the “push-to-talk” feature, which may make their services more attractive to customers. We expect competition to intensify as a result of the development of new technologies, products and services and as the rate of subscriber growth for the industry continues to slow. In addition, the recent merger of Cingular and AT&T Wireless and the pending merger of Sprint and Nextel have intensified the competitive environment in our markets. Furthermore, the FCC plans to auction off new wireless spectrum in June 2006 and thereafter, which may lead to additional competition from new entrants. With so many companies targeting many of the same customers, we may not be able to successfully attract and retain customers and grow our customer base and revenue. Market prices for wireless services may continue to decline in the future. Market prices for wireless voice and data services have declined over the last several years and may continue to decline in the future due to increased competition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our ARPU, including our approximate $73 ARPU for our postpaid subscribers in Puerto Rico. We expect significant competition among wireless providers to continue to drive service and equipment prices lower, which has been intensified by wireless number portability, and may lead to increased churn. Competition continues to intensify as wireless carriers include more equipment discounts and bundled services in their offerings, including offering more minutes and free long distance and roaming services. A continued decline in market prices could adversely affect our ability to grow revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to service our indebtedness. Our failure to successfully develop and incorporate wireless data services into our service offerings may have a material adverse effect on our financial and operational results. Wireless data services are increasingly becoming a meaningful component of many wireless carriers’ strategies and financial results. Many of the national wireless carriers have invested (and will continue to invest) significant resources to develop and deliver these new data services to their customers. As market prices for wireless voice services continue to decline, revenue from new data services helps offset some of the ARPU decline caused by lower prices for voice service. Similarly, as customers increasingly demand wireless data services as part of the core feature set for their phones, the failure to offer such services could reduce sales and increase churn. Currently, in some of our markets, our wireless data offerings are not as robust as those offered by some of our competitors and may never be. If we are unable to successfully incorporate wireless data services into our service offerings, our customer additions and ARPU could decrease and our churn could increase. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will be widespread demand for advanced wireless data services, that revenues from data services will be significant, that we can provide such services on a profitable basis or that vendors will develop and make available popular applications and handsets with features, functionality and pricing desired by customers. 18 Table of Contents Roaming revenue represented 6.7% of fiscal 2005 consolidated revenue and is likely to decline in the future. Significant declines in roaming revenue could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We earn a portion of our revenue from agreements with other wireless communications providers whose customers enter our service areas and use their wireless phones, commonly referred to as roaming. Roaming rates per minute have declined over the last several years and we expect that such declines will continue for the foreseeable future. For fiscal 2005, our operations recorded $58.7 million of roaming revenue. Roaming revenue accounted for approximately 6.7%, 7.3% and 11.5% our consolidated revenue for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The combined entity of Cingular and AT&T Wireless has become our single largest roaming partner and accounted for approximately $43.8 million of our revenue in fiscal 2005. We expect roaming revenues to decline over the long term and significant declines in roaming revenue could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to maintain favorable roaming arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide service to our customers who travel outside our coverage area. In addition to providing us with significant revenue, our roaming arrangements enable our customers to use the wireless networks of other wireless carriers when they travel outside of our licensed service area. This enables us to offer our customers competitively priced regional and national rate plans that include areas for which we do not own wireless licenses. If we are not able to maintain favorable roaming agreements with other wireless carriers, we may no longer be able to offer these regional and national rate plans and the coverage area and pricing we offer to our customers may not be as attractive relative to the offers from our competitors. This could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial condition. While certain of our roaming agreements require other carriers’ customers to use our network when roaming, our roaming agreements do not prevent our roaming partners from competing directly against us in our markets. When our roaming agreements expire or are terminated, our roaming partners could choose not to renegotiate such agreements and could enter into roaming agreements with other carriers serving our markets or choose not to include our markets in their service offerings altogether. Furthermore, our roaming revenue is highly dependent on the pricing decisions made by our roaming partners. If our markets are not included in our roaming partners’ home calling areas and are instead subject to the imposition of additional roaming charges, we could see a loss of roaming minutes and revenue which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to effectively migrate our customers to our new GSM/ GPRS network could have a material adverse effect on our U.S. wireless operations. We completed the overlay of our network and launched GSM service in our Midwest cluster in November 2003 and in our Southeast cluster in October 2004. At May 31, 2005, approximately 35.5% of our U.S. wireless subscribers had GSM phones. We believe that customers are increasingly demanding the most technologically advanced wireless devices. The TDMA supported phones that are held by the majority of our existing customers lack many of the innovative features currently offered by our CDMA and GSM competitors, such as color screens, “push-to-talk” features and cameras. If we fail to adequately integrate GSM service into our U.S. wireless operations in the near future, we believe our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. We expect that a significant number of our current customers using TDMA handsets will migrate to handsets using GSM/ GPRS technology, which may cause our cost of equipment to increase as a result of increased handset subsidies. Our failure to attract new subscribers in our newly launched markets in Grand Rapids and Lansing, Michigan could have a material adverse effect on our U.S. wireless operations. During fiscal 2005, our U.S. wireless operations lost approximately 8,300 net retail wireless subscribers. We launched wireless service in Grand Rapids and Lansing, Michigan in May 2005. While we believe the launch of our wireless service in these new markets will enable us to once again grow our subscriber base, those markets are highly competitive, with up to six competitors each, and there can be no assurance that 19 Table of Contents customers will choose our products and services over our competitors’ products and services. If we are unable to attract new subscribers in these new markets, our U.S. wireless operations may continue to lose customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to effectively manage subscriber cancellations, our revenue and net growth in subscribers may be adversely affected. The wireless industry is extremely competitive. Among other things, the wireless industry is characterized by a high rate of churn. Churn can be the result of several competitive factors, including price, service offerings, network coverage, reliability issues and customer care concerns. Efforts to reduce churn often increase costs as we offer incentives to customers to remain users of our wireless services, and efforts to replace lost subscribers increase our customer acquisition costs. As a result, churn may reduce our revenue and increase our costs. Wireless number portability may increase churn and increase our marketing costs. Pursuant to FCC requirements, wireless carriers began providing wireless number portability in 100 designated markets on November 24, 2003, and began to do so in all other markets in May 2004. Wireless number portability allows customers to keep their wireless phone number when switching between service providers. Wireless number portability makes it more convenient for customers to change wireless service providers and therefore could cause churn to increase significantly. We believe wireless number portability has increased price competition and we expect it to continue to do so. As a result of wireless number portability, we have been, and in the future may continue to be, required to grant promotional credits, subsidize product upgrades, and reduce pricing to match competitors’ initiatives in an effort to retain and attract customers. Regulatory changes may impose restrictions that adversely affect us or cause us to incur significant unplanned costs in modifying our business plans or operations. The U.S. telecommunications industry is subject to federal, state and other regulations that are continually evolving. In addition, the telecommunications industry in the Dominican Republic is similarly subject to change. As new telecommunications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. We cannot assure you that we can do so in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the failure by us to comply with applicable governmental regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or the assessment of penalties or fines or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Also, although legislation has not yet been introduced, there have been indications that Congress may substantially revise the 1996 Act in the next few years. We cannot predict what effect any new legislation will have on our businesses. See “Business — Regulation — U.S. Federal Regulation — Matters Specific to Wireless Carriers.” The FCC, which has jurisdiction over our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and state regulatory agencies continue to issue rules implementing the requirements of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, or the 1996 Act. These rules include the obligation of incumbent telephone companies to allow other carriers to connect to their network by reasonable means at rates based on cost. The interpretation and implementation of these and other provisions of the 1996 Act and the FCC rules implementing the 1996 Act continue to be heavily debated and may have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Business — Regulation — U.S. Federal Regulation — Matters Relevant to Both Wireless and Landline Telephone Operations.” Centennial Puerto Rico is also subject to the jurisdiction of the TRB. The TRB could determine that the rates for our wireline services are not cost based. The TRB could also revoke our Local Exchange Certification if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. This determination could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, the rapid growth and penetration of wireless services has prompted the interest of the FCC, state legislatures and state Public Utility Commissions to attempt to more closely regulate certain practices by the wireless industry, including in areas such as customer billing, terminations of service arrangements, 20 Table of Contents advertising and filing of “informational” tariffs. In addition, many states and local governments have imposed and are considering imposing additional regulation and taxes on wireless services. These regulations and taxes have imposed and will continue to impose increased costs on us and may adversely affect our business. We are subject to siting and zoning regulations that could materially affect our ability to build new cell sites and expand our coverage. All telecommunications providers are obligated to contribute to the federal Universal Service Fund in accordance with a formula presently based upon a percentage of interstate and intrastate revenue. The contribution formula may change in ways that would materially adversely affect us. Universal Service funds are used, among other things, to provide wireline and wireless telephone service to individuals or families qualifying for federal assistance or households in remote areas. Many states, including those we operate in, are implementing local universal service programs that would require carriers to contribute additional funds. Further, federal or state governments, the government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or the government of the Dominican Republic could adopt regulations or take other actions that might have a material adverse effect on our business. These changes could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, operating results and ability to service our debt. The loss of our licenses would adversely affect our ability to provide wireless and broadband services. In the United States, cellular, PCS, and microwave licenses are valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses expire in various years from 2005 to 2013. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and are put out for public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. Failure to file for renewal of these licenses or failure to meet any licensing requirements could lead to a denial of the renewal application and thus adversely affect our ability to continue to provide service in that license area. Furthermore, our compliance with regulatory requirements such as enhanced 911 and wireless number portability may depend on the availability of necessary equipment or software. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. Our wireless licenses may decrease in value, reducing the asset base that supports our debt. A substantial portion of our assets consists of intangible assets, principally our interests in wireless licenses held by our subsidiaries. If the market value of our wireless licenses decreases significantly, we may realize a material loss upon the sale of any of our licenses, our ability to sell assets to repay debt would be significantly affected and we would recognize an expense, approximately equal to the amount of the decline in value, in our operating income. The market for the purchase and sale of wireless licenses may not exist in the future or the values of our licenses in that market may fall. The future value of our interests in our wireless licenses will depend significantly upon the success of our business. Moreover, the transfer of interests in these licenses is prohibited without FCC approval. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain FCC approval to transfer interests in our licenses if such a transfer became necessary. Our Caribbean operations recognized expenses of approximately $24.3 million and $34.0 million from loss on impairment of assets in fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002, respectively, and no such loss in fiscal 2004 and 2005. Rapid and significant technological changes in the telecommunications industry may adversely affect us. We face rapid and significant changes in technology. In particular, the wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, including: • evolving industry standards; • the allocation of new radio frequency spectrum in which to license and operate advanced wireless services; • ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology and shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements; 21 Table of Contents • changes in end-user requirements and preferences; • development of data and broadband capabilities; and • migration to next-generation services, which may require the purchase of additional spectrum. For us to keep up with these technological changes and remain competitive, we will be required to continue to make significant capital expenditures. Customer acceptance of the services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings. For example, two-way radio dispatch, or “push-to-talk” technology, which allows subscribers to talk to each other instantly with a single push of a button, has become increasingly popular as it allows subscribers to save time on dialing or making a connection to a network. The most popular push-to-talk feature is offered by Nextel. However, Verizon Wireless and ALLTEL offer push-to-talk services as well. Each of these companies compete with us in many of our wireless markets. Other wireless providers are testing systems that would allow them to offer a form of push-to-talk technology to their subscribers. We do not currently offer a push-to-talk service. Calls using this technology tend to be shorter and less expensive than traditional wireless telephone service. As demand for this service continues to grow, and if other wireless providers in our service areas succeed in implementing forms of push-to-talk technology, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining subscribers, which will have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, customers are increasingly choosing their wireless carriers based on handset selection and pricing of handsets. As a smaller, regional carrier, we may not have access to the most technologically advanced handsets as quickly as the national wireless carriers, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. Similarly, we believe that, on average, we pay more for our handsets than do the national carriers with whom we compete. This may allow our competitors to offer handsets to potential customers at more attractive prices than we can and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain our customers. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. Technological changes may result in increases in our capital expenditures. New technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available to us. Like others in the industry, we are uncertain about the extent of customer demand despite improvements in technology as well as the extent to which airtime and monthly access rates may continue to decline. Also, alternative technologies may be developed that provide wireless communications service or alternative service superior to that available from us. Rapid changes in technology in our market may adversely affect our business. To accommodate next generation advanced wireless products such as high-speed data and streaming video, we may be required to purchase additional spectrum. We cannot assure you that we will gain access to this spectrum at a reasonable cost or at all. Failure to provide these services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with wireless carriers offering these new technologies. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of the network, cause us to be effectively locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. As a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Nortel Networks, Ericsson, Inc. and Lucent Technologies, Inc. If it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms, on a timely basis or at all. 22 Table of Contents If we lose our senior management, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our key employees. Business, political, regulatory and economic factors and severe weather may significantly affect our operations and hurt our overall performance. Our business is dependent on the business and economic conditions as well as consumer spending in the areas in which we operate, particularly in the Caribbean. If existing economic conditions in the Caribbean were to deteriorate, the market for wireless or other communications services in the Caribbean may be disproportionately and adversely affected due to the generally lower per capita income in the Caribbean as compared to the United States. This deterioration would also have an adverse effect on our business in the Caribbean and, because our Puerto Rico operations contribute significantly to our financial performance, on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be materially adversely affected by events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, labor strikes, terrorism and other factors that may generally affect the regions in which we operate. For instance, hurricanes and labor strikes significantly slow down the provisioning of services by third parties and needed repair of our network, which could adversely affect our ability to deliver telecommunications. Any change in Puerto Rico’s political status with the United States, or the ongoing debate about such status, could affect the economy of Puerto Rico. The ultimate effect of possible changes in Puerto Rico’s governmental and political status is uncertain and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that such changes will not materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the economy of the Caribbean area is highly dependent on tourism. If the tourism industry declines, in particular as a result of the threat of terrorism, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Dominican Republic’s currency is the DR peso. The DR peso experienced approximately 80% devaluation against the U.S. dollar during fiscal 2004. We transact the majority of our business in the Dominican Republic in DR pesos; however, we purchase wireless phones and network infrastructure in U.S. dollars, thereby exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. Further devaluation of the DR peso could have a material adverse effect on our Dominican Republic operations’ profitability. Our operations in Puerto Rico may be adversely affected if changes in tax benefits available to businesses in Puerto Rico cause companies to reduce their business activities there. The demand for our services in Puerto Rico is significantly affected by the level of business activity on the island. Puerto Rico provides tax incentives for U.S. companies to operate in Puerto Rico and to reinvest the earnings from their Puerto Rico operations in Puerto Rico. As a result of a 1996 amendment to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, the tax benefits available to corporations doing business in Puerto Rico phase out in annual increments through 2005. Consequently, these corporations may reduce or close their Puerto Rico operations and may reduce or eliminate their reinvestments in Puerto Rico. The changes may also reduce the incentives for new investments in Puerto Rico. As a result, such changes in the tax law could reduce demand for our services. Our Universal Service Funding may be reduced or eliminated. During fiscal 2005, we received approximately $42.9 million in payments from the federal Universal Service Fund in connection with our operations in Louisiana, Michigan, Indiana, Mississippi and Puerto Rico, based on FCC rules that make such funding available to competitive carriers, including wireless carriers, 23 Table of Contents operating in areas where the established landline carrier also receives such funding. However, these FCC rules are currently under review and may be changed in a way that materially reduces or eliminates our right to obtain such funding. As such, there can be no assurance that we will continue to receive any Universal Service Funds in the future. Loss of Universal Service Fund revenues could adversely affect our results of operations. Wireless devices may pose health and safety risks, and driving while using a wireless phone may be prohibited; as a result, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our services may decrease. Media reports have suggested that, and studies have been undertaken to determine whether, certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and cell sites may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against other participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets and regulators may impose restrictions on the location and operation of cell sites. These concerns could have an adverse effect on the wireless communications industry and expose wireless providers to litigation, which, even if not successful, can be costly to defend. Government authorities might increase regulation of wireless handsets and cell sites as a result of these health concerns and wireless companies might be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could also adversely affect us through a reduced subscriber growth rate, a reduction in our subscribers, reduced network usage per subscriber or reduced financing available to the wireless communications industry. In addition, the perceived safety risk associated with the use of a wireless device while driving may also adversely affect our results of operations. Studies have indicated that using wireless devices while driving may impair a driver’s attention. The U.S. Congress has proposed legislation that would seek to withhold a portion of federal funds from any state that does not enact legislation prohibiting an individual from using a wireless telephone while driving a motor vehicle. In addition, many state and local legislative bodies have passed and proposed legislation to restrict the use of wireless telephones while driving motor vehicles. Concerns over safety risks and the effect of future legislation, if adopted and enforced in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services. In addition, these concerns and this legislation may discourage use of our wireless devices and decrease our revenue from customers who now use their wireless telephones while driving. Further, litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in damage awards against telecommunications providers, adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. Any or all of these results, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our network capacity and customer service system may not be adequate and may not expand quickly enough to support our anticipated customer growth. Our financial and operational success depends on assuring that we have adequate network capacity and a sufficient customer support system to accommodate anticipated new customers and the related increase in usage of our network. Our wireless minutes of use continue to grow and, as a result, our networks will need to expand to meet this growth. In particular, our postpaid subscribers in the Caribbean used an average of 1,309 minutes during the three months ended May 31, 2005, as compared to 1,208 minutes during the three months ended May 31, 2004. Our postpaid subscribers in the United States used an average of 643 minutes during the three months ended May 31, 2005, as compared to 499 minutes for the same period in 2004. Our failure to expand and upgrade our networks to meet the increased usage could have a material adverse effect on our business. The network capacity plan relies on: • the availability of wireless handsets of the appropriate model and type to meet the demands and preferences of our customers; 24 Table of Contents • the ability to obtain and construct additional cell sites and other infrastructure equipment; • the ability to obtain additional spectrum if required; and • the ability to obtain the capital to expand and upgrade our network. In addition, we must implement, manage and monitor effective procedures for customer activation, customer service, billing and other support services. Reliance on our customer service functions will increase as we add new customers. Our failure to timely and efficiently meet the demands for these services could decrease or slow subscriber growth or delay or otherwise impede billing and collection of amounts owed, which would adversely affect our revenue. We cannot make assurances that our customer service systems and network capacity will expand quickly enough to keep up with our anticipated customer growth, and failure to do so would impair our ability to compete, which would adversely affect our results and financial operations. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We will require a significant amount of capital in the future to meet our substantial debt obligations and to maintain and develop our business and operations. Our ability to generate this capital depends on many factors beyond our control. We are a highly leveraged company. At May 31, 2005, we had approximately $1.6 billion of consolidated long-term debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund our operations and our significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Net cash provided by operations for fiscal 2005 was $193.5 million. Our capital expenditures were approximately $170.7 million for fiscal 2005 and our cash interest expense, net, was $142.8 million in fiscal 2005. Our interest expense plus our capital expenditures have exceeded our cash flow from operations during each of our last five fiscal years and during fiscal 2005. Our substantial debt service obligations could have important consequences to you, including the following: • limiting our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • adversely affecting our vulnerability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry; • reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes by requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to interest rate increases as a portion of the borrowings under our $750.0 million senior secured credit facility (the “New Senior Secured Credit Facility”) are at variable interest rates; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to many of our competitors who are less leveraged than we are; and • causing a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. The $600.0 million term loan portion of our New Senior Secured Credit Facility requires aggregate principal payments of $6.0 million in each of fiscal 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, $4.5 million in fiscal 2010, and the balance of $564.0 million in two equal installments of $282.0 million in August 2010 and February 2011. The $150.0 million revolving credit facility portion of our New Senior Secured Credit Facility matures in 25 Table of Contents 2010. In addition, during fiscal 2005, we redeemed $155.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 103/4% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008 (the “2008 Senior Subordinated Notes”). The remaining principal amount of $145.0 million currently outstanding will be due in 2008. Our 101/8% Senior Notes due 2013 (the “2013 Senior Notes”) require repayment of $500.0 million of principal in 2013 and our 81/8% Senior Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Senior Notes”) require repayment of $325.0 million of principal in 2014. We do not expect our business to generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay all of this indebtedness when it comes due. As a result, we believe we will need to refinance all or a portion of our remaining existing indebtedness prior to its maturity. However, we may not be able to refinance any or all of such indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. Additionally, the terms of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility provide that, if we are unable to refinance the remaining aggregate principal amount of our 2008 Senior Subordinated Notes six months prior to their maturity on December 15, 2008, the aggregate amount outstanding under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility will become immediately due and payable. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt, which would further reduce the cash we have available to invest in our operations, as a result of our increased debt service obligations. The terms of the indentures governing the 2008 Senior Subordinated Notes, the 2013 Senior Notes and the 2014 Senior Notes, as well as the terms of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, limit, but do not prohibit, the incurrence of additional indebtedness by us and our subsidiaries. As of May 31, 2005, we had approximately $149.7 million available for additional borrowings under the revolving credit facility portion of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility. Additionally, in certain circumstances, the terms of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility provide that available borrowings may be increased by up to $250.0 million through one or more additional term loan or revolving credit facilities. The more leveraged we become, the more we, and in turn the holders of our indebtedness, become exposed to the risks described above. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations and to fund our working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing or sell certain of our assets. Our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility. Our New Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, and the New Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing the 2008 Senior Subordinated Notes, the 2013 Senior Notes and our 2014 Senior Notes contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt; • incur additional debt that ranks senior to, or equally with, the 2013 Senior Notes or the 2014 Senior Notes, or the New Senior Secured Credit Facility; • create liens or negative pledges with respect to our assets; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock; • make investments, loans or advances or other forms of payments; • issue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries; • prepay or defease specified indebtedness, including the 2008 Senior Subordinated Notes, the 2013 Senior Notes or the 2014 Senior Notes; • enter into transactions with affiliates; or • merge, consolidate or sell our assets. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the New Senior Secured Credit Facility or the indentures governing our 2008 Senior Subordinated Notes, our 2013 Senior Notes and our 2014 Senior Notes or any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration 26 Table of Contents or cross-default provision applies. In addition, these creditors may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds. If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders could foreclose on and acquire control of substantially all of our assets. In connection with the incurrence of the indebtedness under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders received a pledge of all of the capital stock of Centennial Cellular, our wholly owned subsidiary through which we hold the assets of all of our subsidiaries, including Centennial Puerto Rico, and that of its existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries (but not to exceed 662/3% of the voting stock of certain foreign subsidiaries). Additionally, the lenders under our New Senior Secured Credit Facility generally have a lien on all of the assets of Centennial Cellular and these subsidiaries, including Centennial Puerto Rico. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on and liquidate substantially all of our assets, to the extent required to pay our obligations under the New Senior Secured Credit Facility. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds to service our other indebtedness. As a result, the holders of our securities may lose a portion of, or the entire value of, their investment in our securities. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The terms of our New Senior Secured Credit Facility and our indentures governing our 2013 Senior Notes, our 2014 Senior Notes, and our 2008 Senior Subordinated Notes restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund our operations, make debt service payments, and provide for other corporate needs. No dividends can be paid on our common stock without the approval of our controlling stockholders. Accordingly, we do not expect that investors in our common stock will receive a return on their investment in our common stock through the payment of dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value, and investors in our common stock may not realize a return on their investment even if they sell their shares of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Because we are a holding company, our ability to declare dividends is effectively limited to the amount of dividends, if any, our subsidiaries and other equity holdings may distribute to us. Future sales of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market or if it is perceived that such sales could occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at times and prices that we deem appropriate. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with the Welsh Carson investors, The Blackstone Group investors and certain other stockholders. Currently, these stockholders collectively have approximately 16 million shares registered for resale under an existing shelf registration statement. The registration rights agreement provides, among other things, that holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock held by either of the Welsh Carson investors or The Blackstone Group investors may request that we register all or any portion of the shares they then hold. If the Welsh Carson investors or The Blackstone Group investors exercise their registration rights under this agreement to sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if it is perceived that such exercise and sale could occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. 27 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile and will depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. During the twelve months ended May 31, 2005, the market price of our common stock ranged from $4.69 to $14.04 per share. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, our historical and anticipated operating results, technological or regulatory changes in our industry, announcements or actions by our competitors, low trading volume in our common stock and general market and economic conditions. These factors could cause our common stock to trade at prices below the prices which holders of our common stock paid for their shares, which could prevent investors in our common stock from selling their common stock at or above the prices at which they purchased their shares. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our operations. A group of affiliated stockholders controls the voting power and our Board of Directors and may have interests adverse to the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Welsh Carson, certain of its affiliates and affiliates of The Blackstone Group collectively hold approximately 78% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, these equity investors, directly or indirectly, control our company and have the power to elect all of our directors, appoint new management and approve or reject any action requiring the approval of stockholders, including adopting amendments to our charter and approving mergers and sales of all or substantially all of our assets. These equity investors may make decisions that are adverse to the interests of other holders of our securities. The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. has established new rules with respect to certain corporate governance matters, including requirements for a board consisting of a majority of independent directors, executive sessions of independent directors and independent audit, compensation and nominating committees, among others. Any company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company, or a “controlled company,” is exempt from certain of these requirements. The Welsh Carson investors currently own more than a majority of our outstanding common stock, and therefore we qualify under the “controlled company” exemption and many of the new corporate governance rules are inapplicable to us. In addition, as of May 31, 2005, affiliates of Welsh Carson currently hold approximately $74.5 million principal amount of our 2008 Senior Subordinated Notes, representing approximately 51% of the outstanding principal amount. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to receive a change in control premium on our common stock. Our board of directors’ ability to designate and issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and issue approximately 135,000,000 additional shares of common stock could materially and adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, and could have the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire, or could discourage a person from seeking to acquire, control of our company. If this occurred, investors in our common stock could lose the opportunity to receive a premium on the sale of their shares in a change of control transaction. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that would have the effect of restricting, delaying or preventing altogether certain business combinations with an interested stockholder. Interested stockholders include, among others, any person who, together with affiliates and associates, 28 Table of Contents becomes the owner, or within three years became the owner, of 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. These provisions could also limit an investor’s ability to receive a premium in a change of control transaction. 