ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Food Service Industry Food service businesses may be affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic and political conditions, demographic trends, and the impact on consumer eating habits of new information regarding diet, nutrition and health. The performance of individual restaurants may be adversely affected by factors such as traffic patterns, demographics and type, number and location of competing restaurants. Food service businesses such as ours can also be materially and adversely affected by widespread negative publicity of any type, but particularly regarding food quality, illness, obesity, injury or other health concerns with respect to certain foods. The risk of food-borne illness cannot be completely eliminated, despite the implementation control systems to manage food safety and quality. Any outbreak of such illness attributed to our restaurants or within the food service industry, or any widespread negative publicity regarding our brands or the quick-service restaurant industry in general could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on frequent deliveries of fresh produce and groceries subject food service businesses such as ours to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply, caused by adverse weather or other conditions, could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. In addition, unfavorable trends or developments concerning factors such as inflation, cost of food, labor, fuel, utilities, technology, insurance and employee benefits (including increases in hourly wages and workers’ compensation and other insurance premiums), increases in the number and locations of competing restaurants, regional weather conditions and the availability of experienced management and hourly employees may also adversely affect the food service industry in general. Changes in economic conditions affecting our customers could reduce traffic in some or all of our restaurants or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing conditions. 11 Risks Associated with Development We intend to grow primarily through developing additional new franchisee and Company-owned restaurants. Development involves substantial risks, including the risk of (i) the availability of financing to the Company and to franchisees at acceptable rates and upon acceptable terms; (ii) development costs exceeding budgeted or contracted amounts; (iii) delays in the completion of construction; (iv) the inability to identify, or the unavailability of, suitable sites on acceptable leasing or purchase terms; (v) developed properties not achieving desired revenue or cash flow levels once opened; (vi) competition for suitable development sites; (vii) incurring substantial unrecoverable costs in the event that a development project is abandoned prior to completion; (viii); the inability to obtain all required governmental permits; (ix) changes in governmental rules, regulations and interpretations; and (x) changes in general economic and business conditions. Although we intend to manage our development to reduce such risks, we cannot assure you that present or future development will perform in accordance with our expectations. We cannot assure you that we will complete the development and construction of the restaurants, or that any such development will be completed in a timely manner or within budget, or that any restaurants will generate our expected returns on investment. Our inability to expand in accordance with our plans or to manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Entering New Markets We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand or acquire critical market presence for our brands in new geographical markets, as we may encounter well-established competitors with substantially greater financial resources. We may be unable to find attractive locations, acquire name recognition, successfully market our products or attract new customers. Competitive circumstances and consumer characteristics in new market segments and geographical markets may differ substantially from those in the market segments and geographical markets in which we have experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to profitably operate new company-owned or franchised restaurants in new geographical markets. Management decision to curtail or cease investment in certain locations or markets may result in impairment charges. Risks Related to Competition The quick-service restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to price, service, location, personnel and the type and quality of food, and there are many well-established competitors. Each of our restaurants competes directly and indirectly with a large number of national and regional restaurant chains, as well as with locally-owned quick-service restaurants, fast casual restaurants, and sandwich shops and other similar types of businesses. The trend toward a convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services may increase the number of our competitors. Such increased competition could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, operating and other resources than we have, which may give them a competitive advantage. Certain of our competitors have introduced a variety of new products and engaged in substantial price discounting in recent years and may continue to do so in the future. There can be no assurance as to the success of any of our new products, initiatives or overall strategies, or assurance that competitive product offerings, pricings and promotions will not have an adverse effect upon our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Increased Labor Costs We have a substantial number of employees who are paid wage rates at or slightly above the minimum wage. As federal and state minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees, but also the wages paid to the employees at wage rates which are above minimum wage. If competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting the increased costs by price increases, our profitability may decline. In addition, various other proposals that would require employers to provide health insurance for all of their employees are being considered from time to time in Congress and various states. The imposition of any requirement that we provide health insurance to all employees on terms materially different from our existing programs could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. Risks Related to Advertising Some of our competitors have greater financial resources which enable them to purchase significantly more television and radio advertising than we are able to purchase. Checkers/Rally’s award-winning advertising campaign, “You Gotta Eat®”, entered its fifth year in 2005 and continues to play a significant role in driving sales and increasing brand awareness. The Company also utilizes strategic sports sponsorships and public relations initiatives to maximize brand awareness, partnering with NASCAR® and International Speedway Corporation (ISC)™ to become the Official Drive-Thru restaurant and burger of NASCAR®. However, should our competitors increase spending on advertising and promotion, should the cost of television or radio advertising increase, or our advertising funds decrease for any reason, including implementation of reduced spending strategies, or should our advertising and promotion be less effective than our competitors’ advertising, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Risks Related to Franchise Operations At January 2, 2006, approximately 75% of the total Checkers and Rally’s restaurants were franchised. Our ability to sell franchises and to realize gains from such sales is uncertain. The opening and success of franchised restaurants depends on various factors, including the demand for our franchises and the selection of appropriate franchisee candidates, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the availability of financing, and the financial and other capabilities of our franchisees and area developers. We cannot assure you that area developers planning the opening of franchised restaurants will have the business abilities or sufficient access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their agreements. We cannot assure you that franchisees will successfully participate in our strategic initiatives or operate their restaurants in a manner consistent with our concept and standards. In addition, certain federal and state laws govern our relationships with our franchisees. See “Risks Related to Government Regulations” below. Risks Related to Government Regulations See Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation.” The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. We and our franchisees are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local departments relating to health, sanitation and safety standards and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and citizenship requirements. See “Risks Related to Increased Labor Costs” above. The inability to obtain or maintain such licenses or publicity resulting from actual or alleged violations of such laws could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We also are subject to federal regulation and certain state laws governing the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and on provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Some states require that certain materials be registered before franchises can be offered or sold in that state. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and our franchises. Changes in, and the cost of compliance with, government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 