Risk Factors Investors in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below and other information included in this report. Our business, financial condition or consolidated results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks. Investors in our securities could lose all or part of their investment as a result of any such decline. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties; please see “Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.” Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks described below. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry There are risks and uncertainties associated with our proposed acquisition by AT&T. There are risks and uncertainties associated with our proposed acquisition by AT&T. For example, the acquisition may not be consummated, or may not be consummated as currently anticipated. The AT&T Transaction was approved by our stockholders in February 2009. Completion of the AT&T Transaction is not subject to a financing condition but remains subject to (i) approval by the FCC and (ii) other customary conditions. The applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, has expired; however, the parties are still discussing the transaction with the Department of Justice. The parties anticipate that the AT&T Transaction will be completed during the third quarter of calendar year 2009, assuming timely satisfaction or waiver of all remaining closing conditions. However, there is no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the AT&T Transaction will be satisfied or waived, taking into account the current regulatory environment. Failure to consummate the AT&T Transaction for any reason, or an extended delay before consummation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and result in a significant decline in the market price of our common stock. If the AT&T Transaction is not completed, there is no assurance that a comparable transaction will occur. Under certain circumstances, if the AT&T Transaction is terminated, we may be required to pay AT&T a termination fee of $28.5 million and reimbursement of out-of-pocket fees and expenses not exceeding $7.0 million. The merger agreement with AT&T restricts us from engaging in certain activities and taking certain actions without AT&T’s approval, which could prevent us from pursuing opportunities that may arise prior to the closing of the acquisition. The pendency of the AT&T Transaction could have a negative impact on our business, including making it more difficult to attract and retain customers. Our business could be adversely impacted as a result of uncertainty related to the proposed acquisition by AT&T. The proposed acquisition by AT&T could cause disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, whether or not the AT&T Transaction is consummated. For example: • our employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles at the Company, which might adversely affect our ability to retain and hire key managers and other employees; • customers and suppliers may experience uncertainty about the Company’s future and may seek alternative business relationships with third parties or seek to alter their business relationships with the Company; and • the attention of our management may be directed to transaction-related considerations and may be diverted from the day-to-day operations of our business. In addition, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the proposed acquisition by AT&T, and many of these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether we consummate the transaction. The effects of a recession in the United States and general downturn in the global economy, including the illiquidity in the credit markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. The U.S. economy is currently in a recession and may be depressed for the foreseeable future. A continuation of the global economic downturn could adversely affect consumer spending patterns which could result in decreased demand for the products and services we sell, increased price competition, slower adoption of new technologies and an increase in bad debt expense. In addition, the current economic conditions could negatively impact our vendors, suppliers and third-party dealers, which could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and services. Furthermore, general economic conditions and the tightening credit markets have significantly affected the ability of many companies to raise new capital or refinance existing indebtedness. Due to the lack of access to the capital markets, should we need additional funds or to refinance our existing indebtedness, we may not be able to obtain such additional funds. 15 Table of Contents We operate in a very competitive business environment, which may result in the loss of existing customers and our inability to attract new customers. Our principal business, wireless telephone service, is highly competitive. In the United States, we usually compete against four or five other wireless carriers in the markets we serve. Additional operators have continued to build out their networks in our service areas and we expect this trend to continue. In Puerto Rico, we compete against five other wireless carriers. Additional competitors may enter any of our markets in the future, including competitors using unlicensed spectrum. Many of our existing competitors are larger than we are, hold licenses for more spectrum than we do, have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, are less leveraged than we are and have more extensive coverage areas than we do. In addition, because of their size and purchasing power, many of our competitors may be able to purchase equipment, handsets, supplies and services at lower prices than we can. In addition, the size of many of our competitors has enabled them to create nationwide highly recognizable brands. Consolidation in the wireless industry has created and may continue to create even stronger competitors. Competition for customers is based principally upon services and features offered, handset selection and pricing, system coverage, technical quality of the wireless system, price, customer service and network capacity. Some competitors may market services and equipment we do not offer, including technologically advanced phones such as the iPhone, “push-to-talk” services, proprietary data content, each of which may make their services more attractive to customers. We expect competition to intensify as a result of the development of new technologies, products and services and as the rate of subscriber growth for the industry continues to slow. In addition, certain wireless carriers we compete against, or may compete against in the future, offer services we do not offer in all our markets, such as wireline phone service and video services. These companies are able to bundle those services with their wireless offerings to create a compelling offering to consumers that we may not be able to match. In addition, consolidation among wireless carriers as well as the entry of mobile virtual network operators, such as Virgin Mobile, have intensified the competitive environment in our markets. New communications technologies such as Wi-Fi, Wi-Max, satellite services and VoIP are being developed and deployed which will increase competition. The FCC continues to auction new spectrum which will only serve to increase competition in the future. For example, the FCC auctioned off 90 MHz of new wireless spectrum in 2006 in the 1700-2100 bands and 62 MHz of additional spectrum in the 700 MHz band in 2008, which may lead to additional competition from new entrants, including non-traditional telecommunications carriers such as cable television companies. Indeed, the telecommunications industry has seen a blurring of traditional dividing lines between wireline, wireless, data, Internet and video providers. Many of our competitors are able to offer bundles of these services that we cannot match. With so many companies targeting many of the same customers, the pressure to offer free or heavily-subsidized handsets has and may continue to increase. We may not be able to successfully retain our existing customers and attract new customers and as a result grow our customer base and revenue. In addition, the intense competition we face from larger, more technologically advanced carriers, may force us to spend significantly more on capital expenditures than we currently anticipate to remain competitive. Our broadband business in Puerto Rico also faces increased competition. Our broadband business in Puerto Rico currently competes against many companies, including local exchange carriers such as PRTC and Worldnet, ISPs such as PRTC, Caribe.net and AOL, interexchange carriers such as AT&T, PRTC, Sprint, Primus and Worldnet and several emerging VoIP providers. In addition, our broadband business competes against Prepa.Net, an affiliate of the local power company. We expect competition for customers’ share of their telecommunications revenues to continue to be extremely competitive. This has, and may continue to, cause prices to decline. Our inability to gain access to the latest technology handsets in a timeframe and at a cost similar to our competitors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We believe that customers are increasingly choosing their wireless carriers based on handset selection and pricing of handsets. Many of the handset vendors have begun selling their latest handset models exclusively to a single wireless carrier, thereby preventing us from offering these high-demand handsets to our customers. As a result, as a smaller, regional carrier, we may not have access to the most technologically advanced handsets (such as the iPhone) as quickly as the national wireless carriers, thereby putting us at a significant competitive disadvantage. Similarly, we believe that, on average, we pay more for our handsets than do the national carriers with whom we 16 Table of Contents compete. This may allow our competitors to offer handsets to potential customers that we cannot offer or at more attractive prices than we can, making it more difficult for us to attract and retain our customers. Our failure to successfully develop and incorporate wireless data services into our service offerings may have a material adverse effect on our financial and operational results. Wireless data services have become a meaningful component of many wireless carriers’ strategies and financial results. Many of the national wireless carriers have invested (and will continue to invest) significant resources to develop and deliver these new data services to their customers. As market prices for wireless voice services continue to decline, revenue from new data services helps offset some of the ARPU decline caused by lower prices for voice service. Similarly, as customers increasingly demand wireless data services as part of the core feature set for their phones, the failure to offer such services could reduce sales and increase churn. Currently, in some of our markets, our wireless data offerings are not as robust as those offered by some of our competitors and may never be. Often times, we cannot gain access to certain of the proprietary data content available to national operators. If we are unable to successfully incorporate the most advanced wireless data services, including certain 3G and 4G technologies, into our service offerings, our customer additions and ARPU could decrease and our churn could increase. In addition, there can be no assurance that we can provide wireless data services on a profitable basis or that vendors will develop and make available to companies our size popular applications and handsets with features, functionality and pricing desired by customers. Furthermore, we rely on third parties to provide us access to such data, music and video services and access to new handsets to deliver these advanced services. If we are unable to obtain access to such services or handsets at a reasonable cost and on a timely basis our business could be adversely affected. Roaming revenue represented 6.6% of fiscal 2009 consolidated revenue and is likely to decline in the future. Significant declines in roaming revenue could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. We earn a portion of our revenue from agreements with other wireless communications providers whose customers enter our service areas and use their wireless phones, commonly referred to as roaming. Roaming rates per minute have declined over the last several years and we expect that such declines will continue for the foreseeable future. For fiscal 2009, we recorded $69.7 million of roaming revenue, including $59.6 million for our U.S. wireless segment and $10.1 million for our Puerto Rico wireless segment. Roaming revenue accounted for approximately 6.6% of our consolidated revenue for fiscal 2009. Additionally, our roaming agreements do not prevent our roaming partners from competing directly against us in our markets. As our roaming partners continue to build out their networks in our service areas, we would expect them to limit the ability of their subscribers to roam on our network. The loss of this roaming traffic could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. In addition, our roaming partners may terminate their roaming agreements with us under certain circumstances. Accordingly, our roaming agreements may be terminated or renegotiated on less favorable terms. Furthermore, our roaming revenue is highly dependent on the pricing decisions made by our roaming partners and our roaming agreements do not require that our roaming partners use our network. If our markets are not included in our roaming partners’ home calling areas and are instead subject to the imposition of additional roaming charges, we could see a loss of roaming minutes and revenue. We continue to expect roaming revenues to decline and significant declines in roaming revenue could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. Our failure to maintain roaming arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide service to our customers who travel outside our coverage area. In our U.S. wireless operations, we control licenses that cover approximately 9 million people — a small percentage of the total population in the United States. Most of our competitors have networks that cover substantially all of the population in the United States and have roaming agreements with international operators that provide international roaming to more countries and at lower prices than we offer. To supplement our limited on-network coverage, we have entered into roaming agreements with national carriers which enable our customers to use the wireless networks of other wireless carriers when they travel outside of our licensed service area. This 17 Table of Contents enables us to offer our customers regional and national rate plans that include areas for which we do not own wireless licenses. In 2007, the FCC adopted a report and order that clarified that CMRS providers are required to provide automatic roaming for voice and SMS text-messaging services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. However, the FCC order does not address roaming for data services or the mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates for voice services. Although we have entered into multi-year roaming agreements with different national carriers, these agreements are subject to renewal and termination under certain circumstances. If we are not able to maintain roaming agreements with other wireless carriers on favorable terms or at all, we may no longer be able to offer these regional and national rate plans and the coverage area and pricing we offer to our customers may not be as attractive relative to the offers from our competitors. This could have a material adverse effect on our future operations and financial condition. In addition, while certain of our roaming agreements require other carriers’ customers to use our network when roaming, our roaming agreements do not prevent our roaming partners from competing directly against us in our markets. When our roaming agreements expire or are terminated, our roaming partners could choose not to renegotiate such agreements, could insist on materially less favorable terms and could enter into roaming agreements with other carriers serving our markets or choose not to include our markets in their service offerings altogether, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. If the roaming rates we pay third parties increase or our subscribers significantly increase their off-network usage, our financial results could be negatively affected. Most of our competitors have national networks which allow them to more economically offer nationwide rate plans. We do not have a national network but offer our customers nationwide rate plans that do not include an incremental charge for roaming. While we have entered into long-term agreements with other wireless carriers with attractive roaming rates, those agreements are subject to renewal and termination under certain circumstances and there is no assurance that we could obtain similar rates from other companies. In addition, our aggregate roaming costs are highly susceptible to the geographic calling patterns of our customers. As we continue to sell more rate plans that do not include any incremental charge for roaming, we expect that our roaming expense will increase. If our roaming rates were to increase or the amount of minutes used by our customers not on our network were to increase, our consolidated financial results could be negatively affected. We may be unable to obtain additional spectrum in the future at a reasonable cost. To keep pace with increased customer demands, roll out next generation technologies and improve the quality of our existing networks, we will need to obtain additional spectrum in our service areas. Spectrum may be acquired through a variety of means, including acquisition, swaps or leasing arrangements or from the FCC in an auction. Certain spectrum recently auctioned off may not be compatible with our existing spectrum and vendors may not manufacture suitable equipment and handsets to use such spectrum with our existing spectrum. There can be no assurance that additional spectrum will be available to us or whether we will have the capital needed to acquire such spectrum. Failure to obtain the necessary spectrum could prevent us from offering new advanced services and could result in increased churn and our inability to attract new customers who increasingly expect and demand these new services. We may expand our business by acquiring new markets or businesses and may be unable to successfully integrate these new markets or businesses which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We may seek to expand our footprint and acquire additional wireless markets or other properties. These transactions involve many risks, both operational and financial in nature. Any acquisition of new markets will require integrating the acquired markets with our existing markets, including integrating the billing, customer care, network, personnel and other systems, many of which may be very different than our existing systems. In addition, we may experience delays or fail to realize the benefits that we had anticipated from any acquisition. Acquisitions also divert management attention away from the existing business and can be a disruption to the ongoing business. Integrating new markets is often very difficult and time consuming and has the potential to negatively impact customer service and churn levels. In addition, it is possible that we would need to provide the customers of the acquired business with new handsets at a subsidized price, which could have a negative impact on our financial 18 Table of Contents results. If we undertake an acquisition and are not successful in our integration efforts, our business and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. We may incur significantly higher wireless handset subsidy costs than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. As the functionality of handsets continues to expand, the price of handsets has generally increased. In addition, our customers are increasingly demanding that we provide them with new handsets more frequently than in the past. We believe that, on average, we pay more for our handsets than do the national carriers with whom we compete. We generally subsidize a portion of the price of the handset to our customers. As a result, at the time we provide a handset to a customer, we incur an expense equal to the difference between the price we pay for the handset and the price we receive from our customer. Many of our competitors maintain aggressive handset promotions, including giving away free handsets. To remain competitive, we may be forced to give away or more heavily subsidize our handsets at unanticipated levels. Similarly, as we roll out new technologies, customers may need new handsets to take advantage of these new services, forcing us to provide our customers with a significant number of new, expensive handsets with heavy subsidies. As a result, we may incur significantly higher wireless handset subsidy costs than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Our failure to attract new subscribers and the lower credit ratings of some of our new customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. As penetration levels for wireless services continue to increase, it will become increasingly more difficult to continue to grow our subscriber base at a reasonable cost to acquire. As a result, we must increasingly seek to attract customers from competitors and from first time wireless customers who, oftentimes, have a lower credit rating, than existing wireless customers. On average, these lower credit rating customers have a higher rate of involuntary churn and bad debt expense than our historical postpaid subscriber base. Our failure to attract new subscribers at a reasonable cost to acquire could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we are unable to effectively manage this new segment of lower credit quality customers, our churn and bad debt expense could increase which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. If we are unable to effectively manage churn, our business may be adversely affected. The wireless industry is extremely competitive. Among other things, the wireless industry is characterized by a high rate of churn. Churn can be the result of several competitive factors, including price, service offerings, network coverage, reliability issues and customer care concerns. Efforts to reduce churn often increase costs as we offer incentives to customers to remain users of our wireless services. A high rate of churn could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations because we would lose revenue and because the cost of adding a new subscriber, which generally includes a handset subsidy and/or a commission expense, is a significant factor in our profitability. As a result, churn may reduce our revenue and increase our costs. Our USF may be reduced or eliminated. During fiscal 2009, we recorded approximately $51.7 million in payments from the federal USF in connection with our operations in Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, Mississippi, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands based on FCC rules that make such funding available to competitive carriers, including wireless carriers, operating in areas where the established landline carrier also receives such funding. However, these FCC rules are currently under review and may be changed in a way that materially reduces or eliminates our right to obtain such funding. As part of this review, the FCC has proposed, among other things, eliminating the “identical support rule”. Elimination of such rule would cause wireless carriers to receive support based on their own costs rather than the costs of the incumbent telephone company. As part of this proposal, the FCC has tentatively concluded to eliminate all Interstate Access Support and Interstate Common Line Support. If this rule is implemented, a substantial portion of our USF funding could be eliminated, including all the support we receive in Puerto Rico. During fiscal 2009, we recorded $22.9 million in payments from the USF relating to our Puerto Rico operations. Also, in May 2008, the FCC implemented a “cap” on USF support to wireless carriers, which will likely reduce our support in the future. As 19 Table of Contents a result of the FCC’s implementation of the “cap” and the potential reform of the USF system, we may receive substantially lower USF revenues in the future, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Market prices for wireless and wireline services may decline in the future at an accelerating rate. Market prices for wireless services have declined over the last several years and may continue to decline in the future at an accelerating rate due to increased competition. As a result, we may be unable to maintain or improve our ARPU or our margins. We expect significant competition among wireless providers which has been intensified by wireless number portability, to continue to drive service and equipment prices lower, and to potentially lead to increased churn. We cannot control the pricing decisions of our competitors and many carriers may choose to offer substantially reduced pricing. Competition continues to intensify as wireless carriers include more equipment discounts and bundled services in their offerings, including offering more minutes and free long distance and roaming services. In addition, our broadband business in Puerto Rico has also experienced a decline in pricing for traditional voice minutes and other services. A continued decline in market prices could adversely affect our revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Regulatory changes may impose restrictions that adversely affect us or cause us to incur significant unplanned costs in modifying our business plans or operations. The U.S. telecommunications industry is subject to federal, state and other regulations that are continually evolving. As new telecommunications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. We may not be able to do so in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the failure by us to comply with applicable governmental regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or the assessment of penalties or fines or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. Also, there have been indications that Congress and/or the FCC may substantially revise parts of the 1996 Act and rules there under in the next few years, including, without limitation, with respect to the amounts we pay into, and receive from, the USF, intercarrier compensation and special access regulation. We cannot predict what effect any new legislation will have on our businesses. The FCC, which has jurisdiction over our operations in the United States, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and state regulatory agencies continue to issue rules implementing the requirements of the 1996 Act. These rules include the obligation of incumbent telephone companies to allow other carriers to connect to their network by reasonable means at rates based on cost. The interpretation and implementation of these and other provisions of the 1996 Act and the FCC rules implementing the 1996 Act continue to be subject to regulatory proceedings and litigation and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Puerto Rico operations are also subject to the jurisdiction of the TRB. The TRB could determine that the rates for our wireline services are not cost based. The TRB could also revoke our Local Exchange Certification if we fail to comply with applicable regulations. This determination could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, the rapid growth and penetration of wireless services has prompted the interest of the FCC, state legislatures and state Public Utility Commissions to attempt to more closely regulate certain practices by the wireless industry, including in areas such as customer billing, early termination fees, sales practices, handling of customer call records, privacy, advertising and filing of “informational” tariffs. In addition, many states and local governments have imposed and are considering imposing additional regulations and taxes on wireless services. These regulations and taxes have imposed and will continue to impose increased costs on us and may adversely affect our business. Further, federal or state governments and the government of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico could adopt regulations or take other actions that might have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to location and zoning regulations that could materially affect our ability to build new cell sites and expand our coverage. The FCC has also required wireless carriers to transmit 911 calls and provide the location of the 911 callers with an increasingly narrow geographic tolerance, and has proposed a rule change to further narrow the geographic area. These and other changes could materially and adversely affect our business prospects, operating results and ability to service our indebtedness. 20 Table of Contents The loss of our licenses would adversely affect our ability to provide wireless and broadband services. In the United States, our wireless licenses are valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Our wireless licenses expire in various years from 2009 to 2019. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and are put out for public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. Failure to file for renewal of these licenses or failure to meet any licensing requirements could lead to a denial of the renewal application and thus adversely affect our ability to continue to provide service in that license area. Furthermore, our compliance with regulatory requirements such as enhanced 911 and wireless number portability may depend on the availability of necessary equipment or software. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. Rapid and significant technological changes in the telecommunications industry may adversely affect us. We face rapid and significant changes in technology. In particular, the wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, including: • migration to 3G and 4G services, which will require significant expenditures, including the purchase of licenses for additional spectrum and upgrades to network infrastructure; • evolving industry standards; • the allocation of new radio frequency spectrum in which to license and operate advanced wireless services; • ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology and shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements; • changes in end-user requirements and preferences; and • development of data and broadband capabilities. For us to keep up with these technological changes and remain competitive, we will be required to continue to make significant capital expenditures. Customer acceptance of the services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings. For example, many of our competitors offer “push-to-talk” technology, video services, location-based and mapping services and other popular services that we do not currently offer. In our United States wireless markets, we use GSM technology and in our Puerto Rico market we use CDMA technology. GSM is currently the most widely adopted technology in the world with significantly more subscribers than CDMA technology. If the market for CDMA-based technology declines, it may lead to higher prices on, or reduced availability of infrastructure equipment and handsets supporting CDMA-based systems. In such event, we could be forced to migrate our CDMA networks to GSM or other technologies, which would require significant capital investments and could have a material adverse impact on our business. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. Technological changes may result in increases in our capital expenditures. New technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available to us. Also, alternative technologies may be developed that provide wireless communications service or alternative service superior to that available from us. If we cannot keep pace with technological changes in the telecommunications industry, our business may be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment, handsets and services. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment, handsets and services. If these suppliers and vendors experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components and handsets on a timely basis, our subscriber growth and operating results could suffer significantly. Our initial choice of a network infrastructure supplier can, where proprietary technology of the supplier is an integral component of 21 Table of Contents the network, cause us to be effectively locked into one or a few suppliers for key network components. As a result, we have become reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Nortel Networks, Ericsson, Inc. and Alcatel Lucent. In January 2009, Nortel Networks, our primary vendor for network infrastructure in Puerto Rico, filed for bankruptcy protection. It is unclear what impact Nortel’s bankruptcy will have on our business operations. If it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, if key suppliers or contractors fail to comply with their contracts, fail to meet performance expectations or refuse or are unable to supply us in the future, our business could be severely disrupted. If we lose our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business is largely dependent on our senior management, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, intense competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications industry, and we may be unable to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business, including as a result of our pending transaction with AT&T. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We do not currently maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our key employees. We and our suppliers may be subject to claims of infringement regarding telecommunications technologies that are protected by patents and other intellectual property rights. In general, we do not manufacture any of the equipment or software used in our telecommunications businesses and do not own any patents. Accordingly, we purchase the infrastructure equipment, handsets and software used in our business from third parties and obtain licenses to use the associated intellectual property. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide variety of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties may assert infringement claims from time to time against us (or our suppliers) based on the way we use these technologies in our business. To protect us against possible infringement claims, we may have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers and suppliers that provide us with the equipment and technology we use in our business. However, we do not always have such agreements in place and, even if we have such agreements in place, we may not be fully protected against all losses associated with infringement claims. Whether or not an infringement claim was valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), or requiring us to redesign our business operations or systems to avoid claims of infringement. In addition, if a claim is found to be valid and we or our suppliers fail to successfully negotiate a required royalty or license agreement, we could be forced to pay substantial damages and could be subject to an injunction that could significantly disrupt our business and prevent us from offering certain products or services. Business, political, regulatory and economic factors may significantly affect our operations and hurt our overall performance. Our business is dependent on the business and economic conditions as well as consumer spending in the areas in which we operate, particularly in Puerto Rico. These factors are outside of our control. In particular, the economy in Puerto Rico has been in a significant downturn for several years. As economic conditions in Puerto Rico deteriorate, the market for wireless or other communications services in Puerto Rico may be disproportionately and adversely affected due to the generally lower per capita income in Puerto Rico as compared to the United States. This deterioration would also have an adverse effect on our business in Puerto Rico and, because our Puerto Rico operations contribute significantly to our consolidated financial performance, on our overall financial condition and consolidated results of operations. In addition, our markets in our Midwest cluster in Michigan, Indiana and Ohio have been negatively impacted by the difficulties encountered by the U.S. auto industry and related industries. More generally, adverse changes in the economy are likely to negatively affect our customers’ ability to pay for existing services and to decrease their interest in purchasing new services. 22 Table of Contents Any change in Puerto Rico’s political status with the United States, or the ongoing debate about such status, could affect the economy of Puerto Rico. The ultimate effect of possible changes in Puerto Rico’s governmental and political status is uncertain and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that such changes will not materially adversely affect our business and consolidated results of operations. In addition, the economy of Puerto Rico is highly dependent on tourism. If the tourism industry declines, in particular as a result of the threat of terrorism, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be negatively impacted by severe weather, labor strikes, terrorism and other natural disasters. Our business may be materially adversely affected by events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, labor strikes, terrorism and other factors that may generally affect the regions in which we operate. For instance, hurricanes and labor strikes significantly slow down the provision of services by third parties and needed repair of our network, which could adversely affect our ability to deliver telecommunications services. More specifically, a significant portion of our revenue is derived from our operations in Puerto Rico and Louisiana which have a history of severe weather, including hurricanes that have caused significant damage to telecommunications infrastructure. Although we maintain insurance to cover potential damages, including business interruption insurance, we cannot assure that such insurance will cover all losses we may experience or that the insurance carriers will pay our claims. Our failure to obtain access to rights-of-way, pole attachments and other governmental authorizations and permits on reasonable terms and conditions could have a negative effect on our business. Our ability to operate our networks is dependent on, among other things, our ability to obtain rights-of-way, pole attachments and other governmental authorizations and permits. To remain competitive, it is important that we obtain such rights-of-way, pole attachments and governmental authorizations and permits in a timely manner, at a reasonable cost and otherwise on satisfactory terms and conditions. If we cannot obtain these rights on satisfactory terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our wireless licenses may decrease in value, reducing the asset base that supports our debt. A substantial portion of our assets consists of intangible assets, principally our interests in wireless licenses held by our subsidiaries. The market for the purchase and sale of wireless licenses may not exist in the future or the values of our licenses in that market may fall. The future value of our interests in our wireless licenses will depend significantly upon the success of our business. In addition, the FCC continues to auction off new spectrum, including spectrum in the 700 MHz band that has favorable transmission propagation characteristics similar to our 850 MHz spectrum. This increase in spectrum supply could cause our wireless licenses to decrease in value. If the market value of our wireless licenses decreases significantly, we could realize a material loss upon the sale of any of our licenses and our ability to sell assets to repay debt would be significantly affected. We could also be forced to record a non-cash impairment charge on our financial statements. Moreover, the transfer of interests in these licenses is prohibited without FCC approval. We may not be able to obtain FCC approval to transfer interests in our licenses if such a transfer became necessary. Wireless devices may pose health and safety risks, and driving while using a wireless phone may be prohibited; as a result, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our services may decrease. The perceived safety risk associated with the use of a wireless device while driving may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Studies have indicated that using wireless devices while driving may impair a driver’s attention. Many state and local legislative bodies have passed or proposed legislation to restrict the use of wireless telephones while driving motor vehicles. Concerns over safety risks and the effect of future legislation, if adopted and enforced in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services. In addition, these concerns and this legislation may discourage use of our wireless devices and decrease our revenue from customers who now use their wireless telephones while driving. Further, litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in damage awards against telecommunications providers, adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. Any 23 Table of Contents or all of these results, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Media reports have suggested that, and studies have been undertaken to determine whether, certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and cell sites may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against other participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of wireless phone usage. Defending these lawsuits can be time consuming and expensive. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets and regulators may impose restrictions on the location and operation of cell sites. These concerns could have an adverse effect on the wireless communications industry and expose wireless providers to litigation, which, even if not successful, can be costly to defend. Government authorities might increase regulation of wireless handsets and cell sites as a result of these health concerns and wireless companies might be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could also adversely affect us through a reduced subscriber growth rate, a reduction in our subscribers, reduced network usage per subscriber or reduced financing available to the wireless communications industry. Our network capacity and customer service and billing system may not be adequate and may not expand quickly enough to support our anticipated customer growth. Our financial and operational success depends on assuring that we have adequate network capacity and a sufficient customer support and billing system to accommodate anticipated new customers and the related increase in usage of our network. Our wireless minutes of use continue to grow and, as a result, our networks will need to expand to meet this growth. Our failure to expand and upgrade our networks to meet the increased usage could have a material adverse effect on our business. It is also critical that we continue to add undersea capacity connecting our operations in Puerto Rico with the U.S. mainland to ensure we can meet the growing bandwidth demands of our customers. The network capacity plan relies on: • the availability of wireless handsets of the appropriate model and type to meet the demands and preferences of our customers; • the ability to obtain and construct additional cell sites and other infrastructure equipment; • the ability to obtain additional spectrum, and • the ability to obtain the capital to expand and upgrade our network. In addition, we must implement, manage and monitor effective procedures for customer activation, customer service, billing and other support services. Reliance on our customer service functions will increase as we add new customers. Our failure to timely and efficiently meet the demands for these services could decrease or slow subscriber growth or delay or otherwise impede billing and collection of amounts owed, which would adversely affect our revenue. In addition, in July 2008, we switched our primary vendor for outsourced billing and related services from Convergys Information Management Group, Inc. to Fidelity Information Services, Inc. While we will continue to use our existing Virtuoso billing platform, the transition to a new billing vendor involves operational risks that could cause a disruption in our business that could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and overall customer experience. Furthermore, a failure to expand our customer service systems and network capacity quickly enough to keep up with customer growth, would impair our ability to compete, which would adversely affect our results and financial operations. Network disruptions, system failures and loss of informational databases may adversely affect our operations. We rely heavily on our networks and the networks of other telecommunications providers to support all of our services. We are able to deliver services only to the extent that we can protect our network systems against damage 24 Table of Contents from power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses, natural disasters, hackers, terrorism, unauthorized access and other disruptions. Should we experience a prolonged or severe system failure, our customers may choose a different provider, our reputation may be damaged and our consolidated results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, maintaining the privacy of our customers’ and employees’ information is of critical importance to us. If we were to lose some of this information, whether through theft, hacking or other means, we could incur significant costs and our reputation could be damaged. If we lose the right to install our network equipment on wireless cell sites, our business could be adversely affected. In general, we do not own the cell sites on which we place our radio antennas and equipment, but rather lease space on such towers from third parties. A significant portion of our cell site leases are with a small number of tower companies pursuant to master agreements. If we were to lose access to these cell sites, we could be forced to find new sites which could require significant capital expenditures and could have an adverse effect on our network. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We will need to refinance our indebtedness on or before maturity and may be unable to do so. We will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. Recent disruptions in the financial markets could make it more difficult to obtain debt or equity financing on reasonable terms or at all. The term loan portion of the Senior Secured Credit Facility, which at May 31, 2009 had $550.0 million outstanding, matures with two equal installments of $275.0 million owing in August 2010 and February 2011. In addition, our revolving credit facility under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, which had $0 outstanding at May 31, 2009, matures in February 2010. Accordingly, we will need to begin refinancing discussions with our lenders in the near future. Our 101/8% senior unsecured notes due 2013 (the “2013 Senior Notes”) require repayment of $500.0 million of principal in 2013, our senior notes due 2013 (the “2013 Holdco Notes”) require repayment of $550.0 million of principal in 2013, and our 81/8% senior unsecured notes due 2014 (the “2014 Senior Notes”) require repayment of $325.0 million of principal in 2014. We do not expect our business to generate cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay all of this indebtedness when it comes due. As a result, we believe we will need to refinance all or a portion of our remaining existing indebtedness on or prior to its maturity. However, we may not be able to refinance any or all of our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. Our substantial debt obligations could impair our liquidity and financial condition. We are a highly leveraged company. At May 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.0 billion of consolidated long-term debt. Our ability to make payments on our debt and to fund operations and significant planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Net cash provided by operations for fiscal 2009 was $224.6 million and capital expenditures were approximately $121.2 million. Our substantial debt service obligations could have important consequences to you, including the following: • limiting our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • limiting our ability to engage in certain strategic transactions; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry; • limiting our ability to increase our capital expenditures to roll out new services; • reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes by requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness; 25 Table of Contents • increasing our vulnerability to interest rate increases as a portion of the borrowings under our $750.0 million senior secured credit facility (the “Senior Secured Credit Facility”) and certain of our other indebtedness are at variable interest rates; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to many of our competitors who are less leveraged than we are. Despite current indebtedness levels, Centennial and its subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still be able to incur significantly more debt, which would further reduce the cash we have available to invest in our operations, as a result of our increased debt service obligations. The terms of the agreements governing our long-term indebtedness, limit, but do not prohibit, the incurrence of additional indebtedness by us and our subsidiaries. In addition to the approximately $147.5 million available under the revolving credit facility portion of the Senior Secured Credit Facility, in certain circumstances, the terms of the Senior Secured Credit Facility provide that available borrowings may be increased by up to $250.0 million through one or more additional term loan or revolving credit facilities. The more leveraged we become, the more we, and in turn the holders of our securities, become exposed to the risks described above. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations and to fund our working capital requirements, we may need to seek additional financing or sell certain of our assets. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Gross interest expense for fiscal 2009 was approximately $174.0 million. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Accordingly, it is possible that our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will not be available to us under the Senior Secured Credit Facility to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the Senior Secured Credit Facility and our outstanding notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Without such refinancing, we could be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations under unfavorable circumstances. Furthermore, in many cases, the fair market value of our assets is substantially higher than our tax basis in such assets and therefore any sale of assets may result in significant taxes being owed and less cash available to service our indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. The Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing our other outstanding indebtedness limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from any such sale. Furthermore, the Senior Secured Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. Therefore, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our debt service obligations. Our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility. The Senior Secured Credit Facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, and the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indentures governing our other outstanding indebtedness contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability to: • incur additional debt; • create liens or negative pledges with respect to our assets; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock, including distributions from subsidiaries to Centennial; • make investments, loans or advances or other forms of payments; 26 Table of Contents • prepay or defease specified indebtedness; • enter into transactions with affiliates; or • merge, consolidate or sell our assets. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the Senior Secured Credit Facility or the indentures governing our other outstanding indebtedness, or certain current and any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default under the Senior Secured Credit Facility or the indentures governing our other outstanding indebtedness. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, these creditors may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds. We have a substantial amount of secured indebtedness and our secured creditors would have a prior secured claim to any collateral securing the debt owed to them. In connection with the incurrence of indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders received a pledge of all of the equity of CCOC, our wholly owned subsidiary through which we hold the assets of all of our subsidiaries, including CPROC, and that of its existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries. Additionally, the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facility generally have a lien on all of the assets of CCOC and these subsidiaries, including CPROC. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on and liquidate substantially all of our assets, to the extent required to pay our obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facility. Under those circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds to service our other indebtedness. Future sales of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock. As of July 23, 2009, affiliates of Welsh, Carson, Anderson and Stowe (“Welsh Carson”) collectively owned approximately 21 million shares of our common stock. If Welsh Carson sells or distributes substantial amounts of our common stock, or if it is perceived that such sales or distributions could occur, the market price of our common stock could fall. This also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at times and prices that we deem appropriate. The price of our common stock may be volatile and will depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility. If our transaction with AT&T is not consummated, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. During the twelve months ended May 31, 2009, the market price of our common stock ranged from $1.80 to $8.74 per share. In January 2006, we paid a special cash dividend of $5.52 per share, and the market price for our common stock was adjusted accordingly. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, our historical and anticipated operating results, technological or regulatory changes in our industry, announcements or actions by our competitors, low trading volume in our common stock and general market and economic conditions. These factors could cause our common stock to trade at prices below the prices which holders of our common stock paid for their shares, which could prevent investors in our common stock from selling their common stock at or above the prices at which they purchased their shares. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of publicly traded companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our operations. 27 Table of Contents Affiliates of Welsh Carson have significant voting power and influence on our Board of Directors and may have interests adverse to the interests of the other holders of our common stock. Welsh Carson and certain of its affiliates collectively hold approximately 19% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Accordingly, these equity investors have significant influence on our company. These equity investors may make decisions that are adverse to the interests of the other holders of our securities. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may make it more difficult for investors in our common stock to receive a change in control premium on our common stock. Our board of directors’ ability to designate and issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and issue approximately 135,000,000 additional shares of common stock could materially and adversely affect the voting power of the holders of common stock, and could have the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire, or could discourage a person from seeking to acquire, control of our company. If this occurred, investors in our common stock could lose the opportunity to receive a premium on the sale of their shares in a change of control transaction. In addition, the Delaware General Corporation Law contains provisions that would have the effect of restricting, delaying or preventing altogether certain business combinations with an interested stockholder. Interested stockholders include, among others, any person who, together with affiliates and Associates, becomes the owner, or within three years became the owner, of 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. These provisions could also limit an investor’s ability to receive a premium in a change of control transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 