ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the factors discussed below before deciding to invest in TNCLP's common units. These risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSWe are wholly dependent on our Verdigris manufacturing facility, and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures.Our manufacturing operations, located at a single site in Verdigris, Oklahoma, are subject to significant operating hazards and interruptions. Any significant curtailment of production at one or more of our production units could result in materially reduced revenues and cash flows for the duration of any shutdown. Operations at our manufacturing facility could be curtailed or partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as the result of a number of circumstances, most of which are not within our control, such as unscheduled maintenance or catastrophic events like a major accident or fire, damage by severe weather or other natural disaster or sabotage or terrorist incidents. The manufacturing operations at our facility could also be subject to interruption if our ammonia storage facilities were to be removed from service due to damage from an accident or natural disaster or sabotage or terrorist incidents, or due to problems discovered during inspections associated with long-term maintenance or safety requirements.Our business is dependent on North American natural gas, the prices of which are subject to volatility.Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen fertilizers. We use natural gas both as a chemical feedstock and as a fuel to produce ammonia, UAN and other nitrogen products. Natural gas comprises a significant portion of the total production cost of our products. The price of natural gas in North America has been volatile in recent years. During 2015, the daily closing price at the Henry Hub, the most heavily-traded natural gas pricing point in North America, reached a low of $1.54 per MMBtu on four consecutive days in December 2015 and a high of $3.30 per MMBtu on January 16, 2015. During the three year period ended December 31, 2015, the daily closing price at the Henry Hub reached a low of $1.54 per MMBtu on four consecutive days in December 2015 and a high of $7.94 per MMBtu on March 5, 2014.Changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas can lead to periods of volatile natural gas prices. If high prices were to occur during a period of low fertilizer selling prices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. We sell all of our output of fertilizer products to CF Industries at prices determined based on market prices for our fertilizer products as defined in the General and Administrative Services and Product Offtake Agreement.The price of natural gas in North America and worldwide has been volatile in recent years and has declined on average due in part to the development of significant natural gas reserves, including shale gas, and the rapid improvement in shale gas extraction techniques, such as hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling. Future production of natural gas from shale formations could be reduced by regulatory changes that restrict drilling or hydraulic fracturing or increase its cost or by reduction in oil exploration and development prompted by lower oil prices and resulting in production of less associated gas. If this were to occur, or if other developments adversely impact the supply/demand balance for natural gas in the United States or elsewhere, natural gas prices could rise, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.Our business is cyclical, resulting in periods of industry oversupply during which our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders tend to be negatively affected.Historically, selling prices for our products have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand is affected by planted acreage and application rates, driven by population growth, changes in dietary habits and non-food usage of crops, such as the production of ethanol and other biofuels, among other things. Supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs and availability, government policies and global trade. The construction of new nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing capacity in the industry, plus improvements to increase output from the existing production assets, increase nitrogen supply and affect the supply demand balance.Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in investment in production capacity, which may cause supply to exceed demand and selling prices and capacity utilization to decline. Future growth in demand for fertilizer may not be sufficient to absorb excess industry capacity.6Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.During periods of industry oversupply, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in possible reduced profit margins, write-downs in the value of our inventory and temporary or permanent curtailments of production.Our products are global commodities, and we face intense global competition from other fertilizer producers.We are subject to intense price competition. Most fertilizers are global commodities, with little or no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. We compete with many producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities.Consolidation in the industry has increased the resources of several of our competitors. Some of these competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertilizer sales, which make them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. Our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships.China, the world's largest producer and consumer of nitrogen fertilizers, is expected to continue expanding its fertilizer production capacity in the medium term. If Chinese government policy, devaluation of the Chinese renminbi or decreases in Chinese producers' underlying costs such as the price of Chinese coal, encourage exports, this expected increase in capacity could adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.A decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our products.Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. These factors are outside of our control.State and federal governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. Ethanol production in the United States contributes significantly to corn demand, due in part to federal legislation mandating use of renewable fuels. An increase in ethanol production has led to an increase in the amount of corn grown in the United States and to increased fertilizer usage on both corn and other crops that have also benefited from improved farm economics. While the current Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) encourages continued high levels of corn-based ethanol production, a continuing "food versus fuel" debate and other factors have resulted in calls to eliminate or reduce the renewable fuel mandate, or to eliminate or reduce corn-based ethanol as part of the renewable fuel mandate. This could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and fertilizer demand. Developments in crop technology, such as nitrogen fixation, the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers. In addition, from time to time various state legislatures have considered limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on the environment. Any reduction in the demand for chemical fertilizer products, including any limitation on the use and application of chemical fertilizer, could affect the demand for our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.Our operations are dependent upon raw materials provided by third parties, and any delay or interruption in the delivery may adversely affect our business.We use natural gas in the manufacture of fertilizers. We purchase the natural gas from third party suppliers. Our natural gas is transported by pipeline to our facility by third party transportation providers or through the use of facilities owned by third parties. Delays or interruptions in the delivery of natural gas may be caused by, among other things, severe weather or natural disasters, unscheduled downtime, labor difficulties, insolvency of our suppliers or their inability to meet existing contractual arrangements, deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents, or mechanical failures. In addition, the transport of natural gas by pipeline is subject to additional risks, including delays or interruptions caused by capacity constraints, leaks or ruptures. 7Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.Any delay or interruption in the delivery of natural gas, even for a limited period, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.Our transportation and distribution activities rely on third party providers and are subject to environmental, safety and regulatory oversight. This exposes us to risks and uncertainties beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations and exposes us to additional liability.We rely on railroad, truck, pipeline, and river barge companies to transport raw materials to our manufacturing complex, to coordinate and deliver finished products into CF Industries' distribution system and to ship finished products to CF Industries' customers. We also lease rail cars in order to ship raw materials and finished products. These transportation operations, equipment and services are subject to various hazards, including adverse operating conditions on the inland waterway system, extreme weather conditions, system failures, work stoppages, delays, accidents such as spills and derailments and other accidents and operating hazards. Additionally, due to the aging infrastructure of certain bridges, roadways, rail lines, river locks, and equipment that our third party service providers utilize, we may experience delays in both the receipt of raw materials or the shipment of finished product while repairs, maintenance or replacement activities are conducted. Also, certain third party service providers, particularly railroads, have experienced periodic service slowdowns due to capacity constraints in their systems which impact the shipping times of our products.These transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety, and regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to accidents, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances, terrorism or the potential use of fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations affecting the transportation of raw materials or finished products.If shipping of our products is delayed or we are unable to obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if new and more stringent regulatory requirements are implemented affecting transportation operations or equipment, or if there are significant increases in the cost of these services or equipment, our revenues and cost of operations could be adversely affected. The railroad industry continues various efforts to limit the railroads' potential liability stemming from the transportation of Toxic Inhalation Hazard materials, such as the anhydrous ammonia that we transport to and from our facilities. For example, various railroads have implemented tariffs that include provisions that purport to shift liability to shippers to the extent that liabilities arise from third parties with insufficient resources. These initiatives could materially and adversely affect operating expenses and potentially our ability to transport anhydrous ammonia and increase our liability for releases of our anhydrous ammonia while in the care, custody and control of the railroads, for which our insurance may be insufficient or unavailable. New regulations also could be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship our raw materials or finished products. Increases in transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, and any railroad industry initiatives that may impact our ability to transport our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.Our operations and the production and handling of our products involve significant risks and hazards. We are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. Therefore, our insurance coverage may not adequately cover our losses.Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the manufacture, transportation, storage and distribution of chemical products, including ammonia, which is highly toxic and corrosive. These hazards include: explosions; fires; severe weather and natural disasters; train derailments, collisions, vessel groundings and other transportation and maritime incidents; leaks and ruptures involving storage tanks, pipelines and rail cars; spills, discharges and releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases; deliberate sabotage and terrorist incidents; mechanical failures; unscheduled plant downtime; labor difficulties and other risks. Some of these hazards can cause bodily injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and liabilities.We are currently insured under CF Industries' property, business interruption, casualty and liability insurance policies, but we are not fully insured against all potential hazards and risks incident to our business. If we were to incur significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. CF Industries' insurance policies are subject to various self-retentions, deductibles and limits. CF Industries' insurance policies are generally renewed annually. As a result of market conditions, insurance premiums, self-retentions and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances (including if CF Industries had fully utilized the purchased coverage), certain insurance may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In addition, significantly increased costs could lead CF 8Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.Industries to decide to reduce, or possibly eliminate, coverage. There can be no assurance that CF Industries or we will be able to buy and maintain insurance with adequate limits and reasonable pricing terms and conditions.Cyber security risks could result in disruptions in business operations and adverse operating results.The information management systems that we use are those provided by CF Industries, while we own the computer control systems that operate our plants. We rely on information technology and computer control systems in many aspects of our business, including internal and external communications, the management of our accounting, financial and supply chain functions and plant operations. Business and supply chain disruptions, plant and utility outages and information technology system and network disruptions due to cyber attacks could seriously harm our operations and materially adversely affect our operating results. Cyber security risks include attacks on information technology and infrastructure by hackers, damage or loss of information due to viruses, the unintended disclosure of confidential information, the misuse or loss of control over computer control systems, and breaches due to employee error. Our exposure to cyber security risks includes exposure through third parties on whose systems we place significant reliance for the conduct of our business. We have implemented security procedures and measures in order to protect our systems and information from being vulnerable to cyber attacks. We believe these measures and procedures are appropriate. However, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate, prevent, or recover from rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Compromises to our information and control systems could have severe financial and other business implications.Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products, increase the cost of natural gas or materially disrupt our operations.Weather conditions that delay or disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell or may impede farmers from applying our fertilizers until the following growing season, resulting in lower demand for our products.Adverse weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which could lower the income of growers and impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from CF Industries' customers. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns.Weather conditions or, in certain cases, weather forecasts, also can affect the price of natural gas, the principal raw material used to make our nitrogen fertilizer products. Colder than normal winters and warmer than normal summers increase the demand for natural gas for power generation and for residential and industrial use, which can increase the costs and/or decrease the availability of natural gas. In addition, adverse weather events such as very low temperatures leading to well freeze-offs or hurricanes affecting the Gulf of Mexico coastal states can impact the supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise.We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permitting requirements, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial expenditures.We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, including laws and regulations relating to the generation and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; the cleanup of hazardous substance releases; the discharge of regulated substances to air or water; and the demolition of existing plant sites upon permanent closure. These laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state and local laws.As a fertilizer company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, our business is inherently subject to spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely to incur periodically in the future, liabilities under CERCLA and other environmental cleanup laws at our facility, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment.9Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.Violations of environmental, health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. Environmental, health and safety laws change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always be in compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We may be subject to more stringent enforcement of existing or new environmental, health and safety laws in the future. Additionally, future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or reinterpretation of current laws and regulations may require us to make substantial expenditures. Our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.From time to time, our production of anhydrous ammonia has resulted in accidental releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in liability for administrative penalties and claims for personal injury. To date, our costs to resolve these liabilities have not been material. However, we could incur significant costs if our liability coverage is not sufficient to pay for all or a large part of any judgments against us, or if our insurance carrier refuses coverage for these losses.We hold numerous environmental and other governmental permits and approvals authorizing operations at our Verdigris facility. Expansion or modification of our operations is predicated upon securing necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed regulatory material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, or a determination that we have violated a law or permit as a result of a governmental inspection of our facility could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the Verdigris facility and on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. On October 1, 2015, the EPA released a final regulation lowering the national ambient air quality standard for ozone. This action is expected to result in additional areas of the country being classified as being in nonattainment with the ozone standard and subject to more stringent permitting requirements, which in turn could make it much more difficult and expensive to obtain permits to construct new facilities or expand our existing operations.Future regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions in which we operate could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.We are subject to greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations. There are substantial uncertainties as to the nature, stringency and timing of any future GHG regulations. More stringent GHG limitations, if they are enacted, are likely to have a significant impact on us, because our production facility emits GHGs such as carbon dioxide and nitrous oxide and because natural gas, a fossil fuel, is a primary raw material used in our production process. Regulation of GHGs may require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency, limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our costs for or limit the availability of energy, raw materials or transportation, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, to the extent that GHG restrictions are not imposed in countries where our competitors operate or are less stringent than regulations that may be imposed in the United States, our competitors may have cost or other competitive advantages over us.Our operating results fluctuate due to seasonality.The fertilizer business is seasonal. The degree of seasonality of our business can change significantly from year to year due to conditions in the agricultural industry and other factors. The strongest demand for fertilizer products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. Wholesale buyers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the short application season and the limited ability of our customers and their customers to store significant quantities of this product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand results in sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the start of the spring planting season.As a result of this seasonality, you will not be able to rely on our operating results in any particular period as an indication of our future performance. In addition, as a consequence of our seasonality, our distributions can be volatile, thus, affecting our liquidity and our available cash for distributions to unitholders, and will vary quarterly and annually. 10Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.Our business is subject to risks involving derivatives, including the risk that our hedging activities might not prevent losses.We often utilize natural gas derivatives to hedge our financial exposure to the price volatility of natural gas, the principal raw material used in the production of nitrogen-based fertilizers. We have used fixed-price, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Our use of derivatives can result in volatility in reported earnings due to the unrealized mark-to-market adjustments that occur from changes in the value of the derivatives that do not qualify for, or to which we do not apply, hedge accounting. To the extent that our derivative positions lose value, we may be required to post collateral with our counterparties, adversely affecting our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.Hedging arrangements are imperfect and unhedged risks will always exist. In addition, our hedging activities may themselves give rise to various risks that could adversely affect us. For example, we are exposed to counterparty credit risk when our derivatives are in a net asset position. The counterparties to our derivatives are either multi-national commercial banks, major financial institutions or large energy companies. We monitor the derivative portfolio and credit quality of our counterparties and adjust the level of activity we conduct with individual counterparties as necessary. We also manage the credit risk through the use of multiple counterparties, credit limits, credit monitoring procedures, cash collateral requirements and master netting arrangements. However, our liquidity and cash available for distributions to unitholders could be negatively impacted by a counterparty default on settlement of one or more of our derivative financial instruments.Our limited access to capital in a time of need could materially adversely impact our business.We invest capital in our business to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations and policies, maintain our manufacturing assets, improve our production capabilities and capitalize on growth opportunities. The primary source of capital invested in our business is cash from operations. In the event that cash generated from operations is insufficient to fund capital investments, we would need to obtain additional funding in the form of loans or equity. Our ability to obtain such funding would be determined by market conditions at the time of the capital need. Our partnership structure and our reliance on a single manufacturing facility in Verdigris, Oklahoma could impede our ability to obtain such capital, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.Acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism could negatively affect our business.Like other companies with major industrial facilities, we may be the target of terrorist activities. Our Verdigris facility stores significant quantities of ammonia and other materials that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or injury to employees, who could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.In addition, due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, we are subject to various security laws and regulations. These security laws include the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 and the Chemical Facilities Anti-Terrorism Standards regulation. In addition, President Obama issued Executive Order 13650 Improving Chemical Facility Safety and Security to improve chemical facility safety in coordination with owners and operators. Governmental entities could implement new or impose more stringent regulations affecting the security of our plants, terminals and warehouses or the transportation and use of fertilizers. These regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our products and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and reduced profit margins. We are dependent on CF Industries and its employees for the success of our business.We are dependent on CF Industries for our success in a number of respects. CF Industries, through a subsidiary, purchases all of the production from our manufacturing facility and, together with its affiliates, provides certain services to us, including staffing, benefits, human resources administration, production planning, manufacturing management, procurement, logistics, accounting, legal, risk management, investor relations and other general and administrative services. CF Industries and its wholly-owned subsidiaries have debt and debt service requirements and we currently do not. Although CF Industries is affected by most of the factors that affect us, a higher level of debt could put CF Industries at greater risk than us in the event business conditions deteriorate materially. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders might be adversely affected by financial difficulties at CF Industries, including default by CF Industries or its subsidiaries on their debt or their bankruptcy. Information regarding CF Industries can be obtained in the 11Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.various filings with the SEC, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.Deterioration of global market and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders.A slowdown of, or persistent weakness in, economic activity caused by a deterioration of global market and economic conditions could adversely affect our business in the following ways, among others: conditions in the credit markets could affect the ability of CF Industries' customers and their customers to obtain sufficient credit to support their operations and the failure of certain key suppliers could increase our exposure to disruptions in supply or to financial losses. We also may experience declining demand and falling prices for some of our products due to CF Industries' customers' reluctance to replenish inventories. The overall impact of a global economic downturn on us is difficult to predict, and our business could be materially adversely affected.RISKS RELATED TO OUR PARTNERSHIP STRUCTUREThe General Partner's discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders.Our cash distributions to our unitholders are based on Available Cash as defined in our agreement of limited partnership. Our agreement of limited partnership provides that the General Partner may reduce Available Cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business or the business of the Operating Partnership (including reserves for future operating and capital needs), to provide funds for future distributions to our unitholders in any one or more of the next four quarters or to comply with applicable law or any agreement or obligation to which we or the Operating Partnership are a party or otherwise bound. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for current distribution to our unitholders.Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect the General Partner or the General Partner's directors.Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect the General Partner or the General Partner's Board of Directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The Board of Directors of the General Partner, including the independent directors, is chosen entirely by CF Industries as the indirect owner of the General Partner and not by our common unitholders. Unlike publicly-traded corporations, we do not hold annual meetings of our unitholders to elect directors or conduct other matters routinely conducted at annual meetings of shareholders. Furthermore, even if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of the General Partner, the General Partner may only be removed by a vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our outstanding common units, including any common units held by the General Partner and its affiliates (including CF Industries), voting together as a single class. As a result, given that the General Partner and its affiliates own approximately 75.3% of our outstanding common units, holders of our publicly-traded common units are not able to remove the General Partner under any circumstances.The control of the General Partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent.There is no restriction in our agreement of limited partnership on the ability of CF Industries to transfer its equity interest in the General Partner to a third party. The new equity owner of the General Partner would then be in a position to replace the Board of Directors and the officers of the General Partner with its own choices and to influence the decisions taken by the Board of Directors and officers of the General Partner.The Board of Directors and officers of the General Partner have fiduciary duties to TNGP and its stockholders, and the interests of TNGP and its stockholders may differ significantly from, or conflict with, the interests of our public common unitholders.The General Partner is responsible for managing us. Although the General Partner has, as limited and reduced by the agreement of limited partnership, fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner that is beneficial to our common unitholders, the directors and officers of the General Partner also have fiduciary duties to manage the General Partner in a manner beneficial to TNGP and its stockholders. The interests of TNGP and its stockholders may differ from, or conflict with, the interests of our common unitholders. In resolving these conflicts, the General Partner may favor its own interests or the interests of holders of TNGP's common stock over our interests and those of our common unitholders.12Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.The potential conflicts of interest include, among others, the following:•the General Partner's determination of the amount of our cash expenditures, borrowings and reserves;•the issuance of additional units or the purchase, call, or redemption of outstanding units;•transactions with CF Industries and its affiliates;•the decision to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services on our behalf;•the decision by affiliates of the General Partner to engage in activities that would compete with us; and•the fact that all executive officers of the General Partner, and the majority of the directors of the General Partner, also serve as directors and/or executive officers of CF Industries. Such executive officers, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and senior vice presidents, divide their time between our business and the business of CF Industries. These executive officers will face conflicts of interest from time to time in making decisions which may benefit either us or CF Industries.The agreement of limited partnership limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of the General Partner and restricts the remedies available to us and our common unitholders for actions taken by the General Partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.The agreement of limited partnership limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of the General Partner and its directors and officers, while also restricting the remedies available to our common unitholders for actions that, without these limitations and reductions, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. For example:•The agreement of limited partnership provides that none of General Partner, any of its affiliates, or any director or officer of the General Partner or any of its affiliates will have any liability for monetary damages to us or our unitholders for any act or omission if such person acted in good faith.•The agreement of limited partnership provides broad flexibility for the directors and officers of the General Partner to be involved in the management of the businesses of the owners of the General Partner, including any businesses that are in competition with our business, and specifically permits the owners of the General Partner to engage in activities that are competitive with our business. The agreement of limited partnership provides that no such activities will constitute a breach of any fiduciary duty owed by the General Partner.•The agreement of limited partnership provides that in connection with its resolution of any conflict of interest by the General Partner, the General Partner may consider: the relative interests of any party involved in such conflict or affected by such action, agreement, transaction or situation and the benefits and burdens relating to such interest, as well as any additional factors as the General Partner determines in its sole discretion to be relevant, reasonable or appropriate under the circumstances. The agreement of limited partnership further provides that, in the absence of bad faith by the General Partner, the resolution provided by the General Partner with respect to any conflict of interest will not constitute a breach of the agreement of limited partnership or any standard of care or duty imposed in the agreement of limited partnership or under any law, rule or regulation.By purchasing a common unit, a unitholder becomes bound by the provisions of the agreement of limited partnership, including the provisions described above.CF Industries and its affiliates are also engaged in fertilizer manufacturing.The agreement of limited partnership does not prohibit CF Industries and its affiliates, other than TNGP, from owning and operating nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing plants and storage and distribution assets or engaging in any businesses which could compete with our business. In addition, CF Industries is currently constructing certain assets related to our business and may in the future acquire, construct or dispose of additional assets related to our business, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of these assets.13Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.As a publicly-traded partnership we qualify for, and are relying on, certain exemptions from the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).As a publicly-traded partnership, we qualify for, and are relying on, certain exemptions from the NYSE's corporate governance requirements, including:•the requirement that a majority of the Board of Directors of the General Partner consist of independent directors; and•the requirement that the Board of Directors of the General Partner have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors.As a result of these exemptions, the General Partner's Board of Directors is not comprised of a majority of independent directors, and the General Partner's Board of Directors did not establish a compensation committee. Accordingly, unitholders do not have the same protections afforded to equityholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.Common units are subject to the General Partner's call right.The General Partner and its affiliates own approximately 75.3% of our outstanding units. When not more than 25% of the issued and outstanding units are held by non-affiliates of the General Partner, we, at the General Partner's sole discretion, may call, or assign to the General Partner or its affiliates, our right to acquire all such outstanding units held by non-affiliated persons. The purchase price per unit will be the greater of (i) the average of the previous 20 trading days' closing prices as of the date five days before the purchase is announced and (ii) the highest price paid by the General Partner or any of its affiliates for any unit within the 90 days preceding the date the purchase is announced. As a result of this right, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your common units.Limited Partners may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business.A general partner of a limited partnership generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. TNCLP is organized under Delaware law and the Operating Partnership conducts business in Oklahoma. Limited Partners could be liable for our obligations as if such Limited Partners were general partners if a court or government agency determined that:•we were conducting business in a state but had not complied with that particular state's partnership statute; or•Limited Partners' right to act with other unitholders to remove or replace the General Partner, to approve some amendments to our agreement of limited partnership or to take other actions under our agreement of limited partnership constituted "control" of our business.Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions.In the event that (i) we make distributions to our unitholders when our nonrecourse liabilities exceed the sum of (a) the fair market value of our assets not subject to recourse liability and (b) the excess of the fair market value of our assets subject to recourse liability over such liability, or a distribution causes such a result, and (ii) a unitholder knows at the time of the distribution of such circumstances, such unitholder will be liable for a period of three years from the time of the impermissible distribution to repay the distribution under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (the "Delaware Act").Likewise, upon the winding up of TNCLP, in the event that (a) we do not distribute assets in the following order: (i) to creditors in satisfaction of their liabilities; (ii) to partners and former partners in satisfaction of liabilities for distributions owed under the agreement of limited partnership; (iii) to partners for the return of their contribution; and (iv) to the partners in the proportions in which the partners share in distributions, and (b) a unitholder knows at the time of such circumstances, then such unitholder will be liable for a period of three years from the impermissible distribution to repay the distribution under Section 17-804 of the Delaware Act.A purchaser of common units who becomes a Limited Partner is liable for the obligations of the transferring Limited Partner to make contributions to TNCLP that are known by the purchaser at the time it became a Limited Partner, and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the agreement of limited partnership.14Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.We may issue additional common units and other equity interests without your approval, which would dilute your existing interests.Under our agreement of limited partnership, we are authorized to issue an unlimited number of additional interests without a vote of the unitholders. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity interests of equal or senior rank will have the following effects:•the proportionate ownership interest of unitholders immediately prior to the issuance will decrease;•the amount of cash distributions on each unit will decrease;•the ratio of our taxable income to distributions may increase;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and•the market price of the common units may decline.TAX RISKS TO OUR COMMON UNITHOLDERSTNCLP's tax treatment depends on its status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as it not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service were to treat TNCLP as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if it were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then TNCLP's available cash would be substantially reduced.The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on TNCLP being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. To maintain TNCLP's status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, current law requires that 90% or more of our gross income for every taxable year consist of "qualifying income," as defined in Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the "Service") on this or any other matter affecting us.If TNCLP were to be treated as a corporation in any taxable year, its income, gains, losses, deductions and credits would be reflected on its tax return rather than being passed through to unitholders, and its net income would be taxed at corporate rates. In addition, distributions made to unitholders would be treated as dividend income, to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and profits, and in the absence of earnings and profits, as a nontaxable return of capital (to the extent of a unitholder's basis in his units) or as capital gain (after a unitholder's basis in his units has been reduced to zero). If the Service were to challenge the federal income tax status of TNCLP, it could result in an audit of a unitholder's entire tax return and in adjustments to items on that return which are unrelated to the ownership of our units. In addition, each unitholder would bear the cost of any expenses incurred in connection with an examination of its personal tax return.There can be no assurance that TNCLP will continue to satisfy the requirements for treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that the law will not be changed to make TNCLP taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. If such a new law were enacted, then the Minimum Quarterly Distribution and each of the target distribution levels would be adjusted downward. In such an event, the Minimum Quarterly Distribution and first, second and third target distributions for each quarter thereafter would be reduced to take into account the federal, state and local taxes applicable to TNCLP that would be imposed on the earnings used to make such distributions. For additional information regarding cash distributions, see the "Liquidity and Capital Resources" section of Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If the Service contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any Service contest will reduce available cash.We have not requested a ruling from the Service with respect to TNCLP's treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter. The Service may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our positions. Any contest with the Service could materially and adversely impact the market for our units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the Service will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs would reduce our available cash.15Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.The tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis.The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. On May 6, 2015, IRS published proposed regulations on the types of income and activities which constitute or generate qualifying income of MLP. The proposed regulations would have the effect of limiting the types of income and activities which qualify under the MLP rules, subject to certain transition provisions. The proposed regulations include as activities that generate qualifying income processing or refining and transportation activities with respect to any mineral or natural resource (including fertilizer), but reserve on specific proposals regarding fertilizer-related activities. Any change in the federal income tax treatment of income from fertilizer-related activities as qualifying income could have a material impact on the taxation of the Partnership and could have a material adverse impact on unitholder distributions.Our unitholders will be required to pay taxes on their share of TNCLP income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us.A unitholder is required to pay U.S. federal income tax and, in certain cases, state and local income taxes on its allocable share of TNCLP's income, whether or not such unitholder receives cash distributions from us. No assurance is given that our unitholders will receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of taxable income from us. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of units as of the close of business on the last day of the preceding month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred.We prorate our items of income and loss between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units as of the close of business on the last day of the preceding month instead of the date a particular unit is transferred. As a result of this monthly allocation, a unitholder transferring units may be allocated income, gain, loss, deduction and credit recognized after the transfer. The use of these proration methods may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations promulgated under the Code ("Treasury Regulations"). If the Service were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations regarding allocation methods were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.Tax gain or loss on disposition of our units could be more or less than expected.If a unitholder sells its units, for income tax purposes, the unitholder will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and that unitholder's adjusted tax basis in those units. Because distributions in excess of a unitholder's allocable share of our net taxable income decrease that unitholder's tax basis in its units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units sold will, in effect, become taxable income allocated to that unitholder if the unitholder sells such units at a price greater than that unitholder's tax basis in those units, even if the price received is less than the original cost. Furthermore, a portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized may include a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if a unitholder sells its units, such unitholder may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale.Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.Investment in our common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, substantially all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from U.S. federal income tax, including IRA's, pension plans and other retirement plans and arrangements, will constitute unrelated business taxable income and may be taxable to such unitholders. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Any tax-exempt entity or non-U.S. person should consult its tax advisor before investing in our units. Any tax-exempt entity or non-U.S. person who currently holds our units should consult with their tax advisor as to the U.S. federal and state tax consequences of their holding of our units, including the taxability of income and/or distributions to them. 16Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.We treat each purchaser of our units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual units purchased. The Service may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our units.Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of our units and to maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful Service challenge to these positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to a unitholder or the value of our common units.The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in a termination of TNCLP for federal income tax purposes.TNCLP and the Operating Partnership will be considered to have constructively terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in TNCLP capital and profits within a 12-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest are counted only once. Because CF Industries currently owns approximately 75.3% of the outstanding common units of TNCLP, a sale or exchange of all or a substantial portion of CF Industries' interests in TNCLP (including sales or transfers to affiliates of CF Industries), when combined with trading in the open market, may constitute a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interest in TNCLP. A constructive termination would, among other things, result in the closing of TNCLP's taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of a tax year of TNCLP may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being included in such unitholder's taxable income for the year of termination. Termination could also subject us to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred and therefore failed to make necessary elections in a timely manner.A unitholder whose units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, the unitholder would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition.Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a "short seller" to cover a short sale may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan, and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units.As a result of investing in our units, a unitholder may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire property.In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or are otherwise deemed to be taxable now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be required to file state income tax returns and pay state income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with such requirements.Income allocated to our common unitholders may be subject to the 3.8% Health Care Surtax.Beginning in 2013, for federal income tax purposes, certain investment income earned by unitholders has become subject to an additional 3.8% surtax enacted as part of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the "Health Care Surtax"). Unitholders will need to take into consideration the Health Care Surtax for estimated tax purposes, as well as in the filing of their income tax returns. Gross income from a passive activity, or a trade or business of trading in financial instruments or commodities can be subject to the Health Care Surtax. A "passive activity" is defined to be a trade or business in which the taxpayer does not "materially" participate. This category could include net business income from Master Limited Partnerships (MLPs) such as the Company. Investors in our common units are encouraged to consult their tax advisors as to the applicability of the Health Care Surtax to their particular tax situation.17Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.K-1 Reporting Information is dependent upon proper reporting of purchases and sales by unitholders, their representatives and/or their brokers to TNCLP.Under applicable federal law, we are permitted and do rely on brokerage firms, investor representatives and investors to report sales and dispositions of TNCLP units to us. This information forms the basis of our tax reporting to unitholders. If an investor (or their broker) fails to timely report a purchase or disposition of a unitholder’s interest in TNCLP, the investor will receive an inaccurate Form K-1. The failure to properly report a disposition of a unitholder’s interest does not mean that a unitholder is a continuing unitholder in TNCLP, rather it means that the investor, their representative or their broker have failed to meet its reporting obligations to us. We accept no responsibility for the failure of unitholders, their representatives or their brokers to comply with their reporting obligations to us. If the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us, in which case our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. Pursuant to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015, for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, if the IRS makes audit adjustments to our income tax returns, it may assess and collect any taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) resulting from such audit adjustment directly from us. Generally, we expect to elect to have our General Partner and our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, but there can be no assurance that such election will be effective in all circumstances. If we are unable to have our General Partner and our unitholders take such audit adjustment into account in accordance with their interests in us during the tax year under audit, our current unitholders may bear some or all of the tax liability resulting from such audit adjustment, even if such unitholders did not own units in us during the tax year under audit. If, as a result of any such audit adjustment, we are required to make payments of taxes, penalties and interest, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders might be substantially reduced. These rules are not applicable to us for tax years beginning on or prior to December 31, 2017.18Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTSFrom time to time, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as in other written reports and verbal statements, we make forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements may also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this document. These forward-looking statements are made based on currently available competitive, financial and economic data, our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries and markets in which we operate and management's beliefs and assumptions concerning future events affecting us. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Therefore, our actual results may differ materially from what is expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements. We want to caution you not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this document. Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward- looking statements contained in this document.Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Such factors include, among others:•risks related to our reliance on one production facility;•the volatility of natural gas prices in North America;•the cyclical nature of our business and the agricultural sector;•the global commodity nature of our fertilizer products, the impact of global supply and demand on our selling prices, and the intense global competition from other fertilizer producers;•conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry;•difficulties in securing the supply and delivery of raw materials, increases in their costs or delays or interruptions in their delivery; •reliance on third party providers of transportation services and equipment;•the significant risks and hazards involved in producing and handling our products against which we may not be fully insured;•risks associated with cyber security;•weather conditions;•potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and permitting requirements;•future regulatory restrictions and requirements related to GHG emissions;•the seasonality of the fertilizer business;•risks involving derivatives and the effectiveness of our risk measurement and hedging activities;•limited access to capital;•acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism;•risks related to our dependence on and relationships with CF Industries;•deterioration of global market and economic conditions;•risks related to our partnership structure and control of the General Partner by CF Industries;•changes in TNCLP's available cash for distribution to its unitholders, due to, among other things, changes in its earnings, the amount of cash generated by its operations and the amount of cash reserves established by the General Partner for operating, capital and other requirements;19Table of ContentsTERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P.•the conflicts of interest that may be faced by the executive officers of the General Partner, who operate both us and CF Industries; and•tax risks to our common unitholders and changes in our treatment as a partnership for U.S. or state income tax purposes.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.