Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Partnership’s business. The business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to the Partnership or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our operating expense is related to the cost of natural gas, and an increase in such cost that is either unexpected or not accompanied by increases in selling prices of products could result in reduced profit margins and lower product production. The principal raw material used to produce nitrogen products is natural gas. Natural gas costs in 2009 comprised approximately 49 percent of our total costs and expenses. A significant increase in the price of natural gas (which can be driven by, among other things, supply disruptions, governmental or regulatory actions, cold weather and oil price spikes) that is not hedged or recovered through an increase in the price of the related nitrogen products could result in reduced profit margins and lower production. We have reduced production rates for periods of time in response to high natural gas prices and may do so again in the future. Globally, a significant number of competitors’ nitrogen production facilities have access to fixed-priced natural gas supplies. Our offshore competitors’ natural gas costs have been and likely will continue to be substantially lower than ours. Governmental or regulatory actions may also adversely affect both the supply availability and price of natural gas which could have a material adverse affect on the Partnership’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Declines in the prices of our products may reduce profit margins. Prices for nitrogen products are influenced by the global supply and demand for ammonia and other nitrogen-based products. Long-term demand is affected by population growth and rising living standards that determine food consumption. Short-term demand is affected by world economic conditions and international trade decisions. Supply is affected by increasing worldwide capacity and the increasing availability of nitrogen product exports from major producing regions such as Russia, Canada, the Middle East, Trinidad and Venezuela. When the industry is oversupplied, as is common in commodity businesses, the price at which we sell our nitrogen products typically declines, which results in reduced profit margins, lower production rates and plant closures. U.S. supply is also affected by trade regulatory measures, which restrict imports into that geographic region. Changes in those measures would likely adversely impact available supply and pricing. Our products are subject to price volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Historically, our product prices have reflected frequent changes in supply and demand conditions. Changes in supply result from capacity additions or reductions and from changes in inventory levels. Product demand depends on demand for crop nutrients by the global agricultural industry and on the level of industrial production. Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production until supply exceeds demand, followed by periods of declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle is repeated. In addition, demand for our products are affected by general economic conditions. As a result of periodic imbalances of supply and demand, product prices have been volatile, with frequent and significant price changes. During periods of oversupply, the price at which we sell our products may be depressed and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are global commodities and we face intense competition from other producers. Our products are global commodities and can be subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, and customers, including end-users, dealers, other crop-nutrients producers and distributors, base their purchasing decisions principally on the delivered price and availability of the product. We compete with a number of U.S. and offshore producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. The U.S. has trade regulatory measures in effect which are designed to 8 Table of Contents address this type of unfair trade. Changes in these measures could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability of the particular products involved. Some of our principal competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from nitrogen fertilizer sales. In addition, a portion of global production benefits from fixed-price natural gas contracts that have been, and could continue to be, substantially lower priced than our natural gas. Our inability to compete successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect sales and profitability. Our business is subject to risks related to weather conditions. Adverse weather may have a significant effect on demand for our nitrogen products. Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing season may cause agricultural customers to use less or different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms of nitrogen fertilizer that we sell. Weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could impair their ability to pay our customers. Weather and weather forecasts can dramatically affect the price of natural gas, our main raw material. Colder than normal winters as well as warmer than normal summers increase the natural gas demand for residential use. Also, hurricanes affecting the gulf coastal states can severely impact the supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise sharply. Our risk measurement and hedging activities might not prevent losses. We manage commodity price risk for our businesses as a whole. Although we implemented risk measurement systems that use various methodologies to quantify the risk, these systems might not always be followed or might not always work as planned. Further, such risk measurement systems do not in themselves manage risk, and adverse changes involving volatility, adverse correlation of commodity prices and the liquidity of markets might still adversely affect earnings and cash flows, as well as the balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks have been identified. The ability to manage exposure to commodity price risk in the purchase of natural gas through the use of financial derivatives may be affected by limitations imposed by the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness. In an effort to manage financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our business, its assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have used fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract or industry. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. We may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows could be impacted by counterparty default. As part of its policies and procedures with respect to swap counterparties, the Partnership performs credit analysis and maintains an approved counterparty listing with established individual counterparty credit exposure limits. Counterparty credit exposure limits did not exceed $20 million for any individual counterparty during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. We are wholly dependent on our Verdigris manufacturing facility, and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Our manufacturing operations may be subject to significant interruption if our Verdigris manufacturing facility were to experience a major accident or were damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing. Some of those hazards could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and could result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We currently maintain property insurance, including business interruption insurance although there can be no assurance that we have sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain and maintain sufficient coverage at reasonable costs. 9 Table of Contents We may incur costs or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations to which we are subject. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, including laws relating to air emissions, the use and disposal of hazardous and solid materials and wastes, water discharges, investigation and remediation of contamination, transportation and worker health and safety. We could incur substantial costs, including capital expenditures for equipment upgrades, civil and criminal fines and penalties and third-party claims for damages, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. In connection with the manufacturing, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of materials that are or may be classified as hazardous or toxic by foreign, federal, state, provincial or local agencies, we may be responsible under CERCLA or analogous state laws if such materials have been or are disposed of or released at sites that require investigation and/or remediation, including for damages to natural resources. Under some of these laws, responsible parties may be held jointly and severally liable for such costs, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal or release. From time to time, our production of anhydrous ammonia has resulted in accidental releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in liability for administrative penalties and claims for personal injury. Although, to date, our costs to resolve these liabilities have not been material, we could incur significant costs if our liability coverage is not sufficient to pay for all or a large part of any judgments against us, or if our carrier refuses coverage for these losses. We may be required to install additional pollution control equipment at certain facilities in order to maintain compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues, including proposals to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations. We may be required to install additional air and water quality control equipment, such as low NOx burners, scrubbers, ammonia sensors and continuous emission monitors, at our facilities in order to comply with applicable environmental requirements. Such investments would reduce income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of previously unknown conditions may require significant expenditures in excess of our estimates and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or net cash flows. Government regulation and agricultural policy may reduce the demand for our products. Existing and future government regulations and laws may reduce the demand for our products. Existing and future agricultural and/or environmental laws and regulations may impact the amounts and locations of fertilizer application and may lead to decreases in the quantity of nitrogen fertilizer applied to crops. Changes in U.S. energy policies may affect the demand for our nitrogen products. Any such decrease in the demand for fertilizer products could result in lower unit sales and lower selling prices for nitrogen fertilizer products. U.S. governmental policies affecting the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted and crop prices could also affect the demand for and selling prices of our products. In addition, we manufacture and sell AN in the U.S. AN can be used as an explosive and was used in the Oklahoma City bombing in April 1995. It is possible the U.S. government could impose limitations on the use, sale or distribution of AN, thereby limiting our ability to manufacture or sell this product. We are subject to risks associated with possible climate change legislation, regulation and international accords. Greenhouse gas emissions have increasingly become the subject of a large amount of international, national, regional, state and local attention. Cap and trade initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced in the EU. Similarly, numerous bills related to climate change have been introduced in the US Congress, which could adversely impact all industries. In addition, future regulation of greenhouse gas could occur pursuant to future US treaty obligations, statutory or regulatory changes under the Clean Air Act or new climate change legislation. 10 Table of Contents While not all are likely to become law, this is a strong indication that additional climate change related mandates may be forthcoming, and it is expected that they may adversely impact our costs by increasing energy costs and raw material prices and establishing costly emissions trading schemes and requiring modification of equipment. A step toward potential federal restriction on greenhouse gas emissions was taken on December 7, 2009 when the EPA issued its Endangerment Finding in response to a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. The EPA found that the emission of six greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide (which is emitted from the combustion of fossil fuels), may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health and welfare. Based on this finding, the EPA defined the mix of these six greenhouse gases to be air pollution subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. Although the EPA has stated a preference that greenhouse gas regulation be based on new federal legislation rather than the existing Clean Air Act, many sources of greenhouse gas emissions may be regulated without the need for further legislation. The US Congress is considering legislation that would create an economy-wide cap-and-trade system that would establish a limit (or cap) on overall greenhouse gas emissions and create a market for the purchase and sale of emissions permits or allowances. Under the leading cap-and-trade proposals before Congress, the fertilizer industry likely would be affected due to anticipated increases in the cost of natural gas fuel and feedstock, and the cost of emissions allowances, which the Company would be required to obtain. In addition, cap-and-trade proposals would likely increase the cost of electricity used by the Company. Other countries are also considering or have implemented cap-and-trade systems. Future environmental regulatory developments related to climate change are possible, which could materially increase operating costs in the fertilizer industry and thereby increase our manufacturing and delivery costs. Terra and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. The partnership agreement does not prohibit Terra and its affiliates, other than our General Partner TNGP, and, upon consummation of the Yara Merger, will not prohibit Yara and its affiliates, other than our General Partner TNGP, from owning and operating nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing plants and storage and distribution assets or engaging in businesses that otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, which could harm our business. In addition, Terra, and upon the consummation of the Yara Merger, Yara, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional assets related to our business, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of these assets. We are dependent on Terra and its employees for the success of our business. We are dependent on Terra, and, upon consummation of the Yara Merger, will be dependent on Yara, for our success in a number of respects. Terra, through its wholly-owned subsidiary TNGP (our General Partner), manages our business operations and, together with its affiliates, provides certain other services to us, including production, manufacturing, sales, customer service, distribution, accounting, legal, risk management, investor relations and other general and administrative services. Upon consummation of the Yara Merger, Yara will assume Terra’s role relative to our ownership and operations. Terra and its wholly-owned subsidiaries have, and, upon consummation of the Yara Merger, Yara and its wholly-owned subsidiaries may have, more debt and debt service requirements than we do. Although Terra and Yara are affected by most of the factors that affect us, a higher level of debt could put a greater risk on Terra or Yara, as the case may be, in the event business conditions deteriorate materially. Our results of operations and financial condition might be adversely affected by financial difficulties at Terra, and, upon consummation of the Yara Merger, Yara, default by them or their subsidiaries on their debt or their bankruptcy. Information regarding Terra can be obtained in the various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness upon a change of control. Under our revolving credit facility, a change of control will occur if, among other such things, an individual or group acquires more than 35 percent of the outstanding voting shares of Terra, such as is the case with the Yara Merger. Such a change of control would constitute an event of default under the credit facility. If such a 11 Table of Contents change of control was to occur, the Partnership may not have the ability to replace its current revolving credit facility on terms equal to or more favorable than current terms. If the global economic downturn continues or worsens, our business could be adversely impacted. In the latter part of 2008 and through 2009, the global economic downturn worsened and nitrogen demand continued to weaken. We have experienced declining demand and falling prices for some of our products due to the general economic slowdown and our customers’ reluctance to replenish inventories. In particular, industrial demand for ammonia has remained relatively weak as the economy has struggled to recover. At the same time, the economic downturn has also reduced demand and pricing for natural gas, the primary raw material used in the production of nitrogen products, which has helped to reduce our production costs. In light of these varied and sometimes offsetting effects, the overall impact of the global economic downturn is difficult to predict and our business could be adversely impacted. Disruption in or increased costs of transportation services could have an adverse effect on our profitability. We depend on rail, barge, truck and pipeline transportation services to deliver nitrogen products to our customers, and transportation costs are a significant component of the total cost of supplying nitrogen products. Disruptions of these transportation services could temporarily impair our ability to supply nitrogen products to our customers. In addition, increases in our transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 