Risk Factors—Risk Relating to Our Wireless and Wireline Services in Guyana—GT&T is engaged in significant tax disputes with the Guyanese tax authorities which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations" and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. Taxation—United States As a U.S. corporation, Atlantic Tele-Network is subject to U.S. federal income taxation on its worldwide net income, currently at rates up to 35% of taxable income. In general, a U.S. corporation is only subject to U.S. taxation on the earnings and profits (or E&P) of a foreign corporation when such E&P is actually distributed or deemed distributed. Pursuant to the foreign tax credit provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and subject to complex limitations contained under those provisions, Atlantic Tele-Network is entitled to credit foreign withholding taxes on dividends or interest received, and foreign corporate income taxes of its subsidiaries paid with respect to income distributed as dividends or income inclusions under Subpart F from such subsidiaries, against Atlantic Tele-Network's U.S. federal income tax. The Company does not provide for U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries that are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. As of the end of 2009, Atlantic Tele-Network has a foreign tax credit carryforward of $17.0 million. These credits begin expiring in 2011. Based upon current projections and planning, Atlantic Tele-Network currently estimates that it is more likely than not that $12.0 million of these credits will expire unutilized. It has therefore placed a valuation allowance of $12.0 million against the foreign tax credit carryforward. 21 Table of Contents Available Information Our website address is www.atni.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Report and you should not consider information provided on our website to be part of this Report. You may access, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, plus amendments to such reports as filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the "Financial Information" portion of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, paper copies of these documents may be obtained free of charge upon request by writing to us at 10 Derby Square, Salem, Massachusetts 01970, Attention: Investor Relations, or by calling us at (978) 619-1300. We have adopted a written Code of Ethics that applies to all of our employees and directors, including, but not limited to, our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions. Our Code of Ethics, along with our Compensation Committee Charter and Audit Committee Charter, are available at the Corporate Governance section of our website. We intend to make any disclosure required under the SEC rules regarding amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Ethics on our website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this Report, you should carefully consider the risks described below which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. These risks are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Risks Relating to our U.S. Wireless Business A significant portion of our U.S. wholesale wireless revenue is derived from a small number of customers that could build or acquire overlapping networks. Our Commnet subsidiary, which accounted for approximately 43% of our consolidated revenue in 2009, generates a substantial majority of its revenues from three national wireless service providers. In 2009, these three national wireless service providers together accounted for 81% of Commnet's revenues. Commnet's relationships with its customers generally are much more financially significant for Commnet than for Commnet's customers, which can give its customers significant leverage in negotiating pricing and other terms. If we fail to keep any of these customers satisfied with our service offerings or economic terms and lose their business or are unable to renew or enter into new agreements with these customers on beneficial terms (including pricing) to us, we could suffer a substantial loss of revenue, which would have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these customers build or acquire wireless networks in our service areas we may lose revenue and scale. Should any of these customers take such actions over a significant portion of the areas we serve, it may have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the recent acquisition by Verizon Wireless of Alltel Corporation assets, and pending acquisition of Alltel assets by AT&T, will result in those customers of Commnet having their own infrastructure in markets where they are currently served by Commnet. This is expected to result in a significant loss of revenue and operating income for Commnet in future periods, which, if not offset by growth in other revenues generated by Commnet or other sources could materially reduce overall operating profits. 22 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain favorable roaming arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide service to retail wireless customers who travel outside our coverage area. In addition to providing us with significant revenue, the roaming arrangements established by our retail wireless operations enable our customers to use the wireless networks of other wireless carriers when they travel outside of our licensed service area. This enables us to offer our customers competitively priced regional and international rate plans that include areas for which we do not own wireless licenses. If we are not able to maintain favorable roaming agreements with other wireless carriers, we may no longer be able to offer these regional and international rate plans and the coverage area and pricing we offer to our customers may not be as attractive relative to the offers from our competitors. When our roaming agreements expire or are terminated, our roaming partners could choose not to renegotiate such agreements and could enter into roaming agreements with other carriers serving our markets or choose not to include our markets in their service offerings altogether. This could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. Furthermore, our roaming revenue from visitors to our markets is highly dependent on the pricing decisions made by our roaming partners. If our markets are not included in our roaming partners' home calling areas and are instead subject to the imposition of additional roaming charges, we could see a loss of roaming minutes and revenue which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Wireless and Wireline Services in Guyana Our exclusive license to provide local exchange and international voice and data services in Guyana is subject to significant political and regulatory risk. Since 1991, our subsidiary GT&T has operated in Guyana pursuant to a license from the Government of Guyana to be the exclusive provider of domestic fixed and international voice and data services pursuant to a license with an initial term ending in December 2010, which is renewable at our sole option for an additional 20 year term. In November 2009, we notified the Government of Guyana of our election to renew our exclusive license for an additional 20 years. Since 2001, the Government of Guyana has stated its intention to introduce additional competition into Guyana's telecommunications sector, including conducting formal discussions with GT&T in 2002 regarding this matter. Specifically, Guyana Government officials have publicly stated their intention to revoke or terminate the license and have made efforts to enact legislation that would allow for competition in areas that are precluded by the exclusivity term. In addition, the telecommunications regulatory body in Guyana initiated an action a number of years ago questioning the status and validity of such terms. See "Business—Regulation of Our GT&T Subsidiary." We believe that any early termination of our exclusivity would require our consent and appropriate compensation to GT&T, including, but not limited to, an adjustment of service rates to reflect the real economic cost to GT&T of providing such services. Further, we believe that certain modifications to the legal and regulatory regime governing the telecommunications market sector in Guyana would be needed, and we would also seek the satisfactory resolution of certain long-standing claims between us and the Government relating to certain tax and other matters (as described in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report), for us to consider voluntarily relinquishing GT&T's rights by law and contract to be the exclusive provider of local exchange and international voice and data services in Guyana. During 2008, at the request of the Government, GT&T met with high-ranking members of the Government to discuss potential modifications of GT&T's exclusivity rights and the Government's desire to see the introduction of competition for local exchange and international voice and data services. We believe that such competition is precluded by the exclusivity provisions of our license, but we have expressed our willingness to relinquish those rights under reasonable conditions and with the proper safeguards in place. We have continued to have less formal discussions with government officials 23 Table of Contents and remain willing to discuss a negotiated solution. In late 2008, the Government retained a law firm and consultant to prepare draft legislation for a new telecommunications regulatory regime which may provide for the issuance of multiple licenses for telecommunications services in areas in which we had exclusivity. Based on informal discussions with these parties, we currently expect draft legislation to be available in the first half of 2010. At this time, ATN and GT&T do not know whether or how any draft legislation will address GT&T's exclusive license, and if so, whether it would be pursuant to an agreement between GT&T and the Government. Other than entering into such an agreement on terms acceptable to us, we would seek to enforce GT&T's rights by law and contract to be the exclusive provider of international voice and data services in Guyana. Although we believe that we would be entitled to damages for any involuntary termination or material modification of that license and potentially injunctive relief, we cannot guarantee that we would prevail in any court or arbitration proceeding. We are dependent on GT&T for a substantial portion of our revenues and profits. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 38% of our consolidated revenue and approximately 36% of our consolidated net income, respectively, were generated by GT&T. Our international long distance revenues alone accounted for approximately 16% of our consolidated revenues in 2009. A loss of exclusivity on international voice and data service would result in a reduction in the international call traffic that we handle and could also result in a decline in international calling rates and termination fees. As of December 31, 2009, we have invested more than $300 million in Guyanese telecommunications infrastructure. Any modification, early termination or other revocation of the exclusive domestic fixed and international voice and data license could adversely affect a substantial portion of our revenues and profits and diminish the value of our investment in Guyana. Any significant decline in the price or volume, including as a result of bypass activities, of international long distance calls to Guyana could adversely affect our financial results. We collect payments from foreign carriers for handling international long distance calls originating from the foreign carriers' countries and ending in Guyana. The payments, which are based on volume and payment rates, are pursuant to arrangements we have with the foreign carriers and are subject to the actions of telecommunications regulators, such as the U.S. FCC. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our revenues from GT&T's inbound and outbound international long distance services were $38.2 million (or 16% of our consolidated revenue for 2009) and constituted a significant portion of our profits. More than half of these revenues and profits were from collecting payments for international long distance calls into Guyana from other countries. Any decrease in the payment rate or the volume of inbound long distance calls would reduce the amount of the payments we collect. We believe the volume of international long distance voice traffic is increasingly being threatened by customers and illegal operators bypassing our international exchange through various means, including sending voice traffic as Voice over Internet Protocol (or VoIP). In 2008 and through 2009, this activity—whether by known carriers or small "black market" operators—increased significantly. Further reductions in the payment rates or a decline in inbound international long distance volume, through VoIP, competition or otherwise, would adversely affect our revenues and profits, and would deprive us of a critical source of U.S. currency as payments from foreign carriers to GT&T are in U.S. dollars. The regulation of the rates that GT&T may charge for services may adversely affect our profitability, revenue growth and our ability to make additional network investment in Guyana. The rates that GT&T may charge for its public services are regulated by the PUC, an independent regulatory body responsible for regulating telecommunications in Guyana. The PUC has authority to set rates for local wireline, outbound international and a range of other services and has broad powers 24 Table of Contents to assess GT&T's compliance with the terms of GT&T's exclusive license with the Government of Guyana. Under that license, GT&T is entitled to charge rates that will enable it to earn an annual minimum rate of return equal to 15% of GT&T's capital dedicated to public use. Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, the license states that such rates shall be calculated on the basis of GT&T's entire property, plant and equipment in a manner consistent with the practices and procedures of the FCC. The PUC, however, has disallowed or challenged several million dollars of franchise rights and working capital that we believe should be included in the base upon which rates are determined in accordance with the terms of the license (or rate base). Furthermore, when we have demonstrated under-earning in the past the PUC has often refused to allow an increase in rates to the level we believed necessary to earn the minimum return. Any failure by the PUC to calculate rates in accordance with the rate of return calculation in the license or to allow an increase in rates when we demonstrate under-earning would adversely affect our profitability, revenue growth and our ability to make additional network investment in that country. In addition, we calculate the rate base in U.S. dollars based on a historical U.S. dollar valuation of dedicated capital, which protects the value of GT&T earnings, to the extent rate increases are allowed, from devaluations in the Guyanese dollar. The PUC has neither approved nor disapproved this method of calculation. If we were required to calculate the rate base based on a Guyanese dollar valuation of dedicated capital, the value of GT&T's earnings would be subject to devaluations in the Guyanese dollar if we are unable to increase rates. The rates that GT&T may charge for its mobile services are also regulated by the PUC. In January 2007 the PUC established floor and ceiling rates for both pre-paid and post-paid cellular services and required cellular service providers to begin billing on a per second basis rather than a per minute basis. We believe the PUC has enforced the new minimum and maximum rates in favor of GT&T's primary wireless competitor and, in late 2007, GT&T filed a lawsuit contesting the PUC's enforcement approach. During 2008, the PUC expressed its intent to revisit the floor rate and, possibly, eliminate it. That suit remains pending. The PUC has also proposed to extend per second billing to international calls. Any rapid decline in market pricing as a result of these changes, discriminatory enforcement, or competitive forces, without an offsetting increase in volume, would negatively impact the revenues and profits of our wireless business in Guyana. GT&T is engaged in significant tax disputes with the Guyanese tax authorities which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. GT&T's income is subject to Guyanese tax at an overall rate of 45%. GT&T has received various income tax assessments from Guyana tax authorities that claim GT&T owes approximately $23.5 million in additional income taxes for past periods. A substantial portion of this amount is based on the disallowance of 80% of GT&T's deduction for management fees paid to us pursuant to the original investment agreement and related agreements. This management fee was set at approximately 6% of GT&T's revenue for the fiscal year 2009, but, effective in 2010, ATN reduced the fee to 5% of GT&T's revenue. Although we believe that the fee is part of the original contract, it is similar to amounts charged by other international telecommunications companies to their foreign subsidiaries for management advisory services and is an appropriate and proper expense given the extensive services and expertise we provide, we may not prevail in these tax disputes. In addition, if recently reconvened negotiations result in an overall settlement of outstanding issues with the Government, we might be forced to agree to reduce the amount, or deductibility of the management fees. If GT&T is required to pay these additional taxes, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Potential Acquisition Our ability to expand our US operations pursuant to our pending acquisition of former Alltel assets is subject to the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. On June 9, 2009, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless ("Verizon") to acquire wireless assets previously acquired by Verizon it its acquisition of Alltel Corporation ("Alltel") located in Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Illinois, Ohio and Idaho (the "Alltel Acquisition"). Verizon is required to divest these assets pursuant to consent decrees it entered into with the Department of Justice related to its purchase of Alltel in January 2009. Consummation of the Alltel Acquisition is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including (i) the receipt of the approval of the Department of Justice to the Alltel Acquisition, (ii) the receipt of the approval of the Federal Communications Commission to the transfer, assignment or change in control of certain licenses pursuant to the Alltel Acquisition and (iii) the receipt of required consents from state public utility commissions, if any. In 2009, we accumulated $7.2 million of Alltel-Acquisition-related expenses. Although we have received no indication that the required regulatory authorities do not plan to authorize the consummation of the Alltel Acquisition, there can be no guarantee that we will receive all required approvals. Our ability to finance the Alltel Acquisition depends on our ability to draw upon our existing credit facility. In connection with the Alltel Acquisition, we amended and restated our existing credit facility to restate our existing $73.96 million term loan ("Term Loan A") and previously undrawn $75 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolver Facility") and to provide for a new $150 million term loan ("Term Loan B", and, together with Term Loan A and the Revolver Facility, the "New Credit Facility"). No amount is currently outstanding under Term Loan B. We may use the proceeds of the Term Loan B solely in connection with the Alltel Acquisition and it is currently available to be drawn by us until the earlier of (i) completion of the Alltel Acquisition and (ii) March 31, 2010 (the "Term Loan B Commitment Expiration Date"). We intend to request an extension to the Term Loan B Commitment Expiration Date during the first quarter of 2010. Our financial performance following the consummation of the Alltel Acquisition may not reflect market expectations. As previously confirmed in the first quarter of 2010, the Company believes that annualized service revenues from the Alltel Acquisition are expected to range from $450 million to $500 million in the first twelve months following the anticipated close of the transaction. During that period, EBITDA margins are projected to be below industry standards, due to transition and operating expenses. While there can be no assurances regarding our future financial performance as a result of the Alltel Acquisition, we currently expect to progressively increase EBITDA margins over the first twelve to eighteen months and to reach more normalized levels of between 20% and 30% some time in 2011. Other Risks Relating to Our Businesses and Industry The current global economic recession, along with difficult and volatile conditions in the capital and credit markets, could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow, and we do not know if these conditions will improve in the near future. Our operations and performance depend on general economic conditions. The global economy recently experienced, and could continue to experience, an economic downturn due to the crisis in credit markets, slower economic activity, increased unemployment, concerns about inflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence and other adverse business conditions. Such fluctuations in the global economy could cause, among other things, deterioration and continued decline in spending and increase in the cost of labor and materials. As a result, our operating results could be 26 Table of Contents materially impacted. The economic recession could have a significant adverse impact on consumer confidence and discretionary consumer spending, which may result in decreased sales and earnings for us. For example, among other things: •A decrease in tourism could negatively affect revenues and growth opportunities from operations in the islands and in a number of areas covered by U.S. rural wireless operations that serve tourist destinations. •GT&T relies substantially on the population of Guyanese living abroad who initiate calls to Guyana or are responsible for remittances to relatives living in Guyana. Aprolonged economic downturn in the U.S. or Canada could continue to effect inbound calling and, therefore, GT&T's results of operations. The impact, if any, that these financial market events, or any governmental actions intended to address these events, might have on us and our business is uncertain and cannot be estimated at this time. Increased competition may adversely affect growth, require increased capital expenditures, result in the loss of existing customers and decrease our revenues. We face competition in the markets in which we operate. For example: •In Guyana, we have faced competition from Digicel, a nationwide wireless service provider, that has been very aggressive in acquiring a substantial share of the market. •As noted above, Commnet's greatest competitive risk is the possibility that its current customers may elect to build or enhance their own networks within the rural market in which Commnet currently provides service, which is commonly known as "over-building." If Commnet's customers, which have greater financial resources and access to capital than it has, determine to over-build, their need for Commnet's roaming services will be significantly reduced or eliminated. •In Bermuda and Turks and Caicos, BDC competes with the incumbent wireless service provider and Digicel, each of which has greater financial and other resources than BDC. BDC's market share has declined over the past two years. •In New England and New York State, in addition to other competitive voice and data communications service providers, we compete with much larger regional carriers, each of which has greater financial and other resources. Over the last several years, an increase in competition has contributed to a decline in prices for communication services, including local and long distance telephone service, data services and mobile wireless services. Increased competition may decrease prices further. In addition, increased competition could reduce our customer base, require us to invest in new facilities and capabilities and reduce revenues, margins and returns. Our foreign operations are subject to economic, political and other risks that could adversely affect our revenues or financial position. Our operations in Bermuda and the Caribbean may face adverse financial consequences and operational problems due to foreign political or economic changes, such as changes in national or regional political or economic conditions, or laws and regulations that restrict repatriation of earnings or other funds. In addition, we face risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Any of these changes could adversely affect our revenues or financial position. 27 Table of Contents Regulatory changes may impose restrictions that adversely affect us or cause us to incur significant unplanned costs in modifying our business plans or operations. We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local regulations and foreign government regulations, all of which are subject to change. As new telecommunications laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. We cannot assure you that we can do so in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the failure by us to comply with applicable governmental regulations could result in the loss of our licenses or authorizations to operate, the assessment of penalties or fines or otherwise may have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our operations in the United States are subject to the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (or 1996 Act). The interpretation and implementation of the provisions of the 1996 Act and the FCC rules implementing the 1996 Act continue to be heavily debated and may have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly our operations in New England. Also, although legislation has not yet been introduced, there have been indications that Congress may substantially revise the 1996 Act in the next few years. We cannot predict what effect any new legislation will have on our businesses. Sovernet and Commnet are also subject to state regulatory commissions to the extent they provide intrastate services. While we have obtained the necessary certifications to provide service, each state commission retains the authority to revoke our certificate if that commission determines we have violated any condition of our certification or if it finds that doing so would be in the public interest. While we believe we are in compliance with federal and state regulatory requirements, our interpretation of our obligations may differ from those of regulatory authorities. Both federal and state regulators require us to pay various fees and assessments, file periodic reports and comply with various rules regarding our consumer marketing practices and the contents of our bills, on an on-going basis. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines or potentially be asked to show cause as to why our certificate of authority to provide service should not be revoked. In Guyana, we are subject to regulation by the PUC, which has authority to assess GT&T's compliance with the terms of GT&T's exclusive wireline license with the Guyanese government and has regulatory authority over GT&T's wireless service. See "Business—Regulation of Our GT&T Subsidiary." U.S. federal or state governments (including territorial governments) or the governments of Guyana or Bermuda could adopt regulations or take other actions that might have a material adverse effect on our business. These changes could materially and adversely affect our business prospects and operating results. The loss of certain licenses would adversely affect our ability to provide wireless and broadband services. In the United States, wireless, PCS and microwave licenses are valid for ten years from the effective date of the license. Licensees may renew their licenses for additional ten-year periods by filing renewal applications with the FCC. Commnet's wireless licenses expire between 2009 and 2018. Choice's wireless licenses expire at various dates through 2017. The renewal applications are subject to FCC review and are put out for public comment to ensure that the licensees meet their licensing requirements and comply with other applicable FCC mandates. Failure to file for renewal of these licenses or failure to meet any licensing requirements could lead to a denial of the renewal application and thus adversely affect our ability to continue to provide service in that license area. Furthermore, our compliance with regulatory requirements such as enhanced 911 and CALEA requirements may depend on the availability of necessary equipment or software. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may have an adverse effect on our licenses or operations and could result in sanctions, fines or other penalties. 28 Table of Contents Rapid and significant technological changes in the telecommunications industry may adversely affect us. We face rapid and significant changes in technology. In particular, the telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological changes, including: •evolving industry standards; •the allocation of new radio frequency spectrum in which to license and operate advanced wireless services; •ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology and shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements; •changes in end-user requirements and preferences; •the development and adoption of VoIP telephony services; •convergence between video and data services; •development of data and broadband capabilities; and •migration to next-generation services, which may require the purchase of additional spectrum. For us to keep up with these technological changes and remain competitive, at a minimum we will be required to continue to make significant capital expenditures. Our value to the wireless carriers that are customers of our wholesale wireless business depends in part on our network's ability to support the services that such carriers' customers demand. For example, advanced mobile high-speed wireless data services, which allow customers of wireless carriers to use the wireless network to send and receive data files and access the internet at speeds approaching fixed broadband, have become increasingly popular in the United States. While we offer high-speed "3-G" (third generation) mobile data services in some of our retail island wireless businesses, we do not currently offer the more advanced mobile data services to our wholesale customers in the United States. As demand for these services continues to grow, we may have difficulty satisfying our wholesale customers without substantial upgrades, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Similarly, in our retail markets, if we do not offer new services that are popular with customers and are offered by competitors, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining subscribers, which will have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. Technological changes may result in increases in our capital expenditures. New technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available to us. Also, alternative technologies may be developed that provide communications services or alternative services superior to those available from us. Rapid changes in technology in our market may adversely affect our business. For example, to accommodate the demand by our wholesale wireless customers for next-generation advanced wireless products such as high-speed data and streaming video, we may be required to purchase additional spectrum. In each of our markets, providing more and higher speed data services through our wireless or wireline networks may require us to make substantial investments in additional telecommunications transport capacity connecting our networks to the internet, and in some cases such capacity may not be available to us or be available on attractive terms. We cannot assure you that we will gain access to spectrum or capacity at a reasonable cost or at all. Failure to provide these services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete with carriers offering these new technologies in our markets. 29 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of key suppliers and vendors for timely supply of equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers or vendors experience problems or favor our competitors, we could fail to obtain sufficient quantities of the products and services we require to operate our businesses successfully. We depend on a limited number of suppliers and vendors for equipment and services relating to our network infrastructure. If these suppliers experience interruptions or other problems delivering these network components on a timely basis, our subscriber or revenue growth and operating results could suffer significantly. We are reliant upon a limited number of network equipment manufacturers, including Nortel Networks and Alcatel-Lucent and Nokia in the United States. Certain entities owned by Nortel Networks filed for bankruptcy protection in 2008 and significant asset sales have been made since that time. Thus far, such bankruptcy filings and asset sales have not had a significant impact on GT&T's existing contracts, however, we currently don't know whether any future asset or entity sales by Nortel Networks will impact us. If it becomes necessary to seek alternative suppliers and vendors, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacement suppliers or vendors on economically attractive terms on a timely basis. If we lose our senior management, our business may be adversely affected; we rely on local management to run our operating units. The success of our business is largely dependent on our executive officers and the executive officers of our operating units, as well as on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is, and will continue to be, strong competition for qualified personnel in the communications industry and in our markets, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract additional personnel as required could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our key employees and none of the executives at our parent company are under employment agreements. We rely heavily on local management to run our operating units. Many of the markets we operate in are small and somewhat isolated and therefore it is particularly difficult attracting and retaining talented and qualified managers and staff in those markets. Our network capacity and customer service system may not be adequate and may not expand quickly enough to support our customer growth. Our financial and operational success depends on ensuring that we have adequate network capacity and a sufficient customer and operational support systems to accommodate anticipated new customers and the related increase in usage of our network. This includes capacity on our wireless and wireline networks and capacity on our inter- and intra-network transport facilities. Our failure to expand and upgrade our networks and transport facilities to meet the increased usage could impair our quality of service, cause a decline in customer satisfaction and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our retail wireless network capacity plans generally rely on: •the availability of wireless handsets of the appropriate model and type to meet the demands and preferences of our customers; •the ability to obtain and construct additional cell sites and other infrastructure equipment; •the ability to secure adequate transport capacity between our cell sites and our network switching and routing platforms and between those platforms and the internet and other carriers. 30 Table of Contents •the ability to obtain additional spectrum if required; and •the ability to obtain the capital to expand and upgrade our network. In addition, we must implement, manage and monitor effective procedures for customer activation, customer service, billing and other support services. Reliance on our customer service and handset procurement functions increases as we add new customers and offer new services and pricing plans. Our failure to timely and efficiently meet the demands for these services could decrease or slow subscriber growth or delay or otherwise impede billing and collection of amounts owed, which would adversely affect our revenue. We cannot make assurances that our customer service systems and network capacity will expand and adapt quickly enough to keep up with our anticipated customer growth and changes in services, and failure to do so would impair our ability to compete, which would adversely affect our results and financial operations. Our wireless and wireline revenues depend on the reliability and performance of our network infrastructure. We must operate our wireless and wireline networks so as to minimize any disruption that may occur to our services. The operation and growth of our networks and the implementation of new technologies and services involve operating risks that may disrupt our services and cause losses in revenue. In Guyana, for example, the Americas II fiber optic cable, which connects Guyana with the United States, and over which we provide our international long distance service, has from time to time suffered service outages, including a lengthy outage in May 2007. These outages have been caused by accidental cuts and vandalism occurring along the terrestrial portions of the cable in Guyana and other countries, as well as cuts in the international undersea portions. These cuts have resulted in increased operational and capital expenses, customer dissatisfaction and loss of revenue. The cuts have also led us to commit substantial capital spending on building a new submarine fiber optic cable landing in Guyana. Other risks which may also cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers include power loss, capacity limitations, software defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. Disruptions in our networks and the unavailability of our services could lead to a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and violation of the terms of our licenses and contracts with customers. These failures could also lead to significant negative publicity, regulatory problems and litigation. The occurrence of severe weather and natural catastrophes may materially disrupt our operations. Many of the areas in which we operate, which have experienced severe weather conditions over the years including hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, damaging storms and floods. Some areas we operate in may also be at risk of earthquakes. Such events may materially disrupt and adversely affect our business operations. A major hurricane passed directly over Bermuda in 2005 causing major damage to our network and to the island's infrastructure. In 2008, a hurricane caused extensive damage on a small portion of the U.S. Virgin Islands and a separate hurricane negatively effected operations in the Turks and Caicos. Guyana has suffered from severe rains and flooding in two of the last five years. While these events have not had a significant negative impact on the operating results or financial condition of the affected businesses or our overall business, we cannot assure you that these types of events will not have such an impact in the future or that the insurance coverage we maintain for these risks will adequately compensate us for all damage and economic losses resulting from natural catastrophes. Concerns about the actual or perceived health risks relating to electromagnetic and radio frequency emissions, as well as the attendant publicity or possible resultant litigation, may have a negative effect on our financial condition or the results of our operations. Media and other reports have suggested that electromagnetic and radio frequency emissions from wireless telephone handsets and base stations may cause health problems, including cancer. There is 31 Table of Contents also some concern that these emissions may interfere with the operation of certain electronic equipment, including automobile braking and steering systems. The actual or perceived risks relating to wireless communications devices and base stations, or press reports about these risks, could adversely affect us by, for example, reducing our subscriber growth rate, subscriber base or average use per subscriber and increasing our litigation risk. Actual or perceived risks of wireless handsets or base stations could make it difficult to find attractive sites for base stations and reduce our growth rates, customer base and average usage per customer. We may be unable to realize the value that we believe exists in businesses that we may acquire. To realize the value that we believe exists in any future businesses that we acquire, if any, we must successfully integrate them into our holding company organization. If we are unable to effectively manage their operations or are unable to retain their key employees, we may not realize the value that we believe such businesses hold. In addition, failure to successfully integrate these businesses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure Our debt instruments include restrictive and financial covenants that limit our operating flexibility. Our credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe such actions are in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability to: •incur additional debt; •create liens or negative pledges with respect to our assets; •pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock; •make investments, loans or advances or other forms of payments; •issue, sell or allow distributions on capital stock of specified subsidiaries; •enter into transactions with affiliates; or •merge, consolidate or sell our assets. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the credit facility or any subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. Such default may allow our creditors to accelerate the repayment of the related debt and may result in the acceleration of the repayment of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, these creditors may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to provide us with further funds. If we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the credit facility, the lenders could foreclose on and acquire control of substantially all of our assets. In connection with the incurrence of the indebtedness under the credit facility, the lenders received a pledge of our share of the capital stock of all of our subsidiaries, and that of future direct and indirect subsidiaries with some limited exceptions. Additionally, the lenders under our credit facility generally have a lien on all of our U.S. assets and certain of our non-U.S. assets. As a result of these pledges and liens, if we fail to meet our payment or other obligations under the credit facility (including meeting or exceeding certain financial measurements), the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on and liquidate substantially all of our assets, to the extent required to pay our obligations under the credit facility. As a result, the holders of our securities may lose a portion of, or the entire value of, their investment in our securities. 32 Table of Contents Our Chairman is our largest stockholder and will continue to exert significant influence over us. Cornelius B. Prior, Jr., our Chairman and the father of our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns, together with related entities approximately 39% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Cornelius B. Prior, Jr., is able to exert significant influence over all matters presented to our stockholders for approval, including election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. In addition, as our Chairman, he has and will continue to have significant influence over our overall strategy and business plans. His interests may not always coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Low trading volume of our stock may limit our shareholders ability to sell shares and/or result in lower sale prices. During the last quarter of 2009, the average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 51,000 shares. As a result, shareholders may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at a price that might be attainable if our common stock were more actively traded. In addition, the market price of our common stock may not be reflective of its underlying value. We may not pay dividends in the future. Our stockholders may receive dividends out of legally available funds if, and when, they are declared by our Board of Directors. We have paid quarterly dividends in the past, but may cease to do so at any time. Our credit facility limits our ability to pay dividends on, or repurchase, our capital stock. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future that may further restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends. We may also be restricted from paying dividends in the future due to restrictions imposed by state corporation laws, our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, covenants contained in our financing agreements, management's assessment of future capital needs and other factors considered by our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 