ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Partnership’s business. The business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Please note that additional risks not presently known to the Partnership or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair business and operations. A substantial portion of the Partnership’s operating expense is related to the cost of natural gas, and an increase in such cost that is either unexpected or not accompanied by increases in selling prices of products could result in reduced profit margins and lower production of the Partnership’s products. The principal raw material used to produce nitrogen products is natural gas. Natural gas costs in 2005 comprised about 65% of total costs and expenses. A significant increase in the price of natural gas (which can be driven by, among other things, supply disruptions, cold weather and oil price spikes) that is not hedged or recovered through an increase in the price of the related nitrogen products could result in reduced profit margins and lower production of the products. The Partnership has in the recent past reduced production rates for periods of time in response to high natural gas prices. A significant portion of competitors’ global nitrogen production occurs at facilities with access to fixed-priced natural gas supplies. The Partnership’s competitors’ facilities’ natural gas costs have been and likely will continue to be substantially lower than the Partnership’s. Declines in the prices of Partnership products may reduce profit margins. Prices for nitrogen products are influenced by the global supply and demand conditions for ammonia and other nitrogen-based products. Long-term demand is affected by population growth and rising living standards that determine food consumption. Short-term demand is affected by world economic conditions 7 Table of Contents and international trade decisions. Supply is affected by increasing worldwide capacity and the increasing availability of nitrogen product exports from major producing regions such as the former Soviet Union, Canada, the Middle East, Trinidad and Venezuela. A substantial amount of new ammonia capacity is expected to be added abroad in the foreseeable future. When industry oversupply occurs, as is common in commodity businesses, the price at which the Partnership sells its nitrogen products typically declines, which results in reduced profit margins, lower production of products and plant closures. Supply in the U.S. and Europe is also affected by trade regulatory measures, which restrict import supply into those markets. Changes in those measures would likely adversely impact supply and pricing. The Partnership’s products are subject to price volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may cause the results of operations to fluctuate. Historically, the Partnership’s products’ prices have reflected frequent changes in supply and demand conditions. Changes in supply result from capacity additions or reductions and from changes in inventory levels. Demand for products is dependent on demand for crop nutrients by the global agricultural industry and on the level of industrial production. Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in new plant investment and increased production until supply exceeds demand, followed by periods of declining prices and declining capacity utilization until the cycle is repeated. In addition, markets for Partnership products are affected by general economic conditions. As a result of periodic imbalances of supply and demand, product prices have been volatile, with frequent and significant price changes. During periods of oversupply, the price at which the Partnership sells its products may be depressed and this could have a material adverse effect on the Partnership’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Partnership’s products are global commodities and the Partnership faces intense competition from other nitrogen fertilizer producers. Nitrogen fertilizer products are global commodities and can be subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, and customers, including end-users, dealers and other crop-nutrients producers and distributors, base their purchasing decisions principally on the delivered price and availability of the product. The Partnership competes with a number of U.S. producers and producers in other countries, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. The U.S. and the European Commission each have trade regulatory measures in effect which are designed to address this type of unfair trade. Changes in these measures could have an adverse impact on the Partnership’s sales and profitability of the particular products involved. Some of the Partnership’s principal competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from nitrogen fertilizer sales. In addition, a portion of global production benefits from fixed-price natural gas contracts that have been, and could continue to be, substantially lower priced than the Partnership’s natural gas. The Partnership’s inability to compete successfully could result in the loss of customers, which could adversely affect sales and profitability. The Partnership’s business is subject to risks related to weather conditions. Adverse weather conditions may have a significant effect on demand for the Partnership’s nitrogen products. Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing season may cause agricultural customers to use less or different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that the Partnership sells. Weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could impair their ability to pay the Partnership’s customers. 8 Table of Contents The Partnership’s inability to predict future seasonal nitrogen product demand accurately could result in low or excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value. The nitrogen products business is seasonal, with more nitrogen products used in North America during the second quarter, in conjunction with spring planting activity, than in any other quarter. Due to the seasonality of the business and the relatively brief periods during which products can be used by customers, the Partnership and/or our customers generally build inventories during the second half of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales season. This increases the Partnership working capital needs during this period as the Partnership funds these inventory increases and supports its customer’s inventory carry. If the Partnership underestimates future demand, profitability will be negatively impacted and customers may acquire products from our competitors. If the Partnership overestimates future demand, it will be left with excess inventory that will incur storage costs and/or the Partnership may liquidate such additional inventory and/or products at sales prices below the Partnership’s costs. The Partnership is substantially dependent on its Verdigris, Oklahoma manufacturing facility, and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of sales volumes and could cause the Partnership to incur substantial expenditures. The Partnership’s manufacturing operations may be subject to significant interruption if the manufacturing facility were to experience a major accident or were damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, Partnership operations are subject to hazards inherent in nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing. Some of those hazards may cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and may result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. The Partnership currently maintains property insurance, including business interruption insurance although there can be no assurance that the Partnership has sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain sufficient coverage at reasonable costs. The Partnership may be adversely affected by environmental regulations. The Partnership’s operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, including laws relating to air quality, hazardous and solid wastes and water quality. In the United States, the Partnership’s operations are subject to a comprehensive federal and state regulatory regime, including the federal Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, Toxic Substances Control Act and their state analogs. The Partnership could incur substantial costs, including capital expenditures for equipment upgrades, fines and penalties and third-party claims for damages, as a result of compliance with, violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations. The Partnership is also involved in the manufacture, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of materials that are or may be classified as hazardous or toxic by federal, state, provincial or other regulatory agencies. If such materials have been or are disposed of or released at sites that require investigation and/or remediation, the Partnership may be responsible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, or “CERCLA,” or analogous laws for all or part of the costs of such investigation and/or remediation, and for damages to natural resources. Under some of these laws, responsible parties may be held jointly and severally liable for such costs, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal or release. 9 Table of Contents The Partnership may be required to install additional pollution control equipment in order to maintain compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in increased future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations. The Partnership may be required to install additional air and water quality control equipment, such as low emission burners, scrubbers, ammonia sensors and continuous emission monitors in order to maintain compliance with applicable environmental requirements. Such investments would reduce income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to Partnership operations, more vigorous enforcement policies and discovery of unknown conditions may require substantial expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position or net cash flows. Government regulation and agricultural policy may reduce the demand for nitrogen products. Existing and future government regulations and laws may reduce the demand for nitrogen products. Existing and future agricultural and/or environmental laws and regulations may impact the amounts and locations of fertilizer application and may lead to decreases in the quantity of nitrogen fertilizer applied to crops. Any such decrease in the demand for nitrogen fertilizer products could result in lower unit sales and lower selling prices for the Partnership’s fertilizer products. U.S. governmental policies affecting the number of acres planted, the level of grain inventories, the mix of crops planted and crop prices could also affect the demand and selling prices of products. Dependence on Terra. The Partnership is dependent on Terra Industries Inc. in a number of respects. Terra provides all of the Partnership’s management services and operates the Partnership’s Verdigris, Oklahoma facility through its wholly-owned subsidiary TNGP, the Partnership’s general partner. Terra and its wholly-owned subsidiaries have more debt and debt service requirements than the Partnership. Although Terra is affected by most of the factors that affect the Partnership, its higher level of debt could put a greater risk on Terra in the event business conditions deteriorate materially. While the Restructuring was undertaken to reinforce the structural independence of the Partnership from Terra, the Partnership’s results of operations and financial condition might be materially adversely affected by financial difficulties at Terra, default by it or its subsidiaries on their debt or their bankruptcy. Terra Industries Inc. and its affiliates may engage in competition with the Partnership. The partnership agreement will not prohibit Terra and its affiliates, other than the general partner TNGP, from owning and operating nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing plants and storage and distribution assets or engaging in businesses that otherwise compete directly or indirectly with the Partnership. In addition, Terra may acquire, construct or dispose of additional assets related to the Partnership’s business in the future, without any obligation to offer the Partnership the opportunity to purchase or construct any of these assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 10 Table of Contents 