ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of TNCLP's common units. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the market price of TNCLP's common units. We are wholly dependent on our Verdigris manufacturing facility, and any operational disruption could result in a reduction of sales volumes and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Our manufacturing operations would be subject to significant interruption if our Verdigris manufacturing facility were to experience a major accident or were damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster. In addition, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing. Some of those hazards could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage, and could result in suspension of operations and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We currently maintain property insurance, including business interruption insurance, although there can be no assurance that we have sufficient coverage, or can in the future obtain and maintain sufficient coverage at reasonable costs. The manufacturing operations at our Verdigris facility could also be subject to interruption if our single ammonia storage facility were to be removed from service due to damage from an accident or natural disaster, or due to problems discovered during inspections associated with long-term maintenance or safety requirements. Our business is dependent on natural gas, which is subject to a high level of price volatility. Natural gas is the principal raw material used to produce nitrogen fertilizers and comprises a significant portion of the total cost of our products. Because our nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing facility is located in the United States, the price of natural gas in North America directly impacts a substantial portion of our production costs. The price of natural gas in North America is highly volatile. The market price of natural gas in North America is not linked to other world gas prices and is also higher than the price of natural gas in certain other major fertilizer-producing regions, including the Middle East. In addition to having access to lower-priced natural gas, some of our competitors may also benefit from fixed-price natural gas contracts, which may be linked directly to the market price of the nitrogen fertilizer being manufactured. Recent declines in the price of North American natural gas have been driven, in part, by the development of new sources of natural gas for the North American market, including, "unconventional" sources, such as shale gas, exploration and development of new natural gas fields and natural gas imports in the form of liquid natural gas. Any limitation on these sources of natural gas as a result of the environmental concerns raised with the development of new natural gas fields or the techniques used to recover shale gas or otherwise could cause the price of natural gas in North America to rise significantly. Given the volatility of pricing and our dependence on North American natural gas, the price we pay for natural gas in the future may be higher than prices paid by producers in certain other fertilizer-producing regions of the world, which may make it more difficult for us to compete against these producers. We may not be able to pass along higher operating costs to our customers in the form of higher product prices. A significant increase in the price of natural gas (which can be driven by, among other things, supply disruptions, governmental or regulatory actions, cold weather and oil price spikes) that is not hedged or recovered through an increase in the price of related nitrogen products could result in reduced profit margins and lower product production. Production rates at our Verdigris facility have 6 Table of Contents TERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P. previously been reduced in response to high natural gas prices and such reductions could occur again in the future. Our business is cyclical, resulting in periods of industry oversupply during which our results of operations tend to be negatively impacted. Historically, selling prices for our products have fluctuated in response to periodic changes in supply and demand conditions. Demand is affected by population growth, changes in dietary habits, non-food usage of crops, such as the production of ethanol and other biofuels, and planted acreage and application rates, among other things. Supply is affected by available capacity and operating rates, raw material costs and availability, government policies and global trade. Periods of high demand, high capacity utilization and increasing operating margins tend to result in investment in production capacity, which may cause supply to exceed demand and selling prices and capacity utilization to decline. Future growth in demand for fertilizer may not be sufficient to absorb excess industry capacity. During periods of industry oversupply, our results of operations tend to be affected negatively as the price at which we sell our products typically declines, resulting in possible reduced profit margins, write-downs in the value of our inventory and/or temporary or permanent curtailments of production. Our products are global commodities and we face intense competition from other producers. We are subject to intense price competition from both domestic and foreign sources. Fertilizers are global commodities, with little or no product differentiation, and customers make their purchasing decisions principally on the basis of delivered price and to a lesser extent on customer service and product quality. We compete with a number of domestic and foreign producers, including state-owned and government-subsidized entities. Some of these competitors have greater total resources and are less dependent on earnings from fertilizer sales, which make them less vulnerable to industry downturns and better positioned to pursue new expansion and development opportunities. Consolidation in the fertilizer industry has increased the resources of several of our competitors. Such consolidation could continue and our competitive position could suffer to the extent we are not able to expand our own resources either through investments in new or existing operations or through acquisitions, joint ventures or partnerships. China, the world's largest producer and consumer of fertilizers, is expected to continue expanding its fertilizer production capability. This expected increase in capacity could adversely affect the balance between global supply and demand and may put downward pressure on global fertilizer prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our products. Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. State and federal governmental policies, including farm and biofuel subsidies and commodity support programs, as well as the prices of fertilizer products, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. In recent years, for example, ethanol production in the United States has 7 Table of Contents TERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P. increased significantly due, in part, to federal legislation mandating greater use of renewable fuels. This increase in ethanol production has led to an increase in the amount of corn grown in the United States and to increased fertilizer usage on both corn and other crops that have also benefited from improved farm economics. While the current Renewable Fuels Standard (RFS) encourages continued high levels of corn-based ethanol production, a continuing "food versus fuel" debate and other factors have resulted in calls to reduce subsidies for ethanol, allow increased ethanol imports and adopt temporary waivers of the current RFS levels, any of which could have an adverse effect on corn-based ethanol production, planted corn acreage and fertilizer demand. Developments in crop technology, such as nitrogen fixation, the conversion of atmospheric nitrogen into compounds that plants can assimilate, could also reduce the use of chemical fertilizers and adversely affect the demand for our products. In addition, several states are currently considering limitations on the use and application of chemical fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on the environment. We rely on third party providers of transportation services and equipment, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties beyond our control that may adversely affect our operations. We, in conjunction with CF Industries, rely on railroad, trucking, pipeline, and river barge companies to transport raw materials to our manufacturing facility, to deliver finished products to our distribution system and to ship finished products to our customers. These transportation operations, equipment and services are subject to various hazards, including extreme weather conditions, work stoppages, delays, accidents such as spills and derailments and other accidents and other operating hazards. These transportation operations, equipment and services are also subject to environmental, safety, and regulatory oversight. Due to concerns related to accidents, terrorism or the potential use of fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations affecting the transportation of our raw materials or finished products. If we are delayed or are unable to ship our finished products or obtain raw materials as a result of these transportation companies' failure to operate properly, or if new and more stringent regulatory requirements are implemented affecting transportation operations or equipment, or if there are significant increases in the cost of these services or equipment, our sales revenues and/or cost of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, increases in our transportation costs, or changes in such costs relative to transportation costs incurred by our competitors, could have an adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. The railroad industry has initiated various efforts to limit the railroads' potential liability stemming from the transportation of Toxic Inhalation Hazard (TIH) materials, such as the anhydrous ammonia that is transported to and from our facilities. These efforts by the railroads include (i) requesting that the Surface Transportation Board (STB) issue a policy statement finding that it is reasonable for a railroad to require a shipper to indemnify the railroads and carry insurance for all liability above a certain amount arising from the transportation of TIH materials; (ii) requesting that the STB approve an increase in the maximum reasonable rates that a railroad can charge for the transportation of TIH materials; and (iii) lobbying for new legislation or regulations that would limit or eliminate the railroads' common carrier obligation to transport TIH materials. If the railroads were to succeed in one or more of these initiatives, it could materially and adversely affect our operating expenses and potentially our ability to transport anhydrous ammonia and increase our liability for releases of our anhydrous ammonia while in the care, custody and control of the railroads. New regulations could also be implemented affecting the equipment used to ship our raw materials or finished products. The U.S. railroad industry is developing higher ammonia tank car performance 8 Table of Contents TERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P. standards which could require the modification or replacement of our leased tank cars. The effective date of these new regulations is not known at this time. These higher standards could adversely impact our cost of operations and our ability to obtain an adequate supply of rail cars to support our operations. Adverse weather conditions may decrease demand for our fertilizer products and increase the cost of natural gas. Weather conditions that delay or intermittently disrupt field work during the planting and growing seasons may cause agricultural customers to use different forms of nitrogen fertilizer, which may adversely affect demand for the forms that we sell or may impede farmers from applying our fertilizers until the following growing season, resulting in lower demand for our products. Adverse weather conditions following harvest may delay or eliminate opportunities to apply fertilizer in the fall. Weather can also have an adverse effect on crop yields, which lowers the income of growers and could impair their ability to purchase fertilizer from our customers. Weather conditions or, in certain cases, weather forecasts, can also dramatically affect the price of natural gas, our principal raw material used to make nitrogen based fertilizers. Colder than normal winters and warmer than normal summers increase the demand of natural gas for residential and industrial use. In addition, hurricanes affecting the gulf coastal states can severely impact the supply of natural gas and cause prices to rise sharply. We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws, regulations and permits, as well as potential environmental liabilities, which may require us to make substantial expenditures. We are subject to numerous environmental and health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, including laws and regulations relating to the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of hazardous substance releases. These laws include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the Toxic Substances Control Act and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. As a fertilizer company working with chemicals and other hazardous substances, our business is inherently subject to spills, discharges or other releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA, impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, for cleanup costs on persons who have disposed of or released hazardous substances into the environment. Given the nature of our business, we have incurred, are incurring currently, and are likely to incur periodically in the future, liabilities under CERCLA and other environmental cleanup laws at our facility, adjacent or nearby third-party facilities or offsite disposal locations. The costs associated with future cleanup activities that we may be required to conduct or finance may be material. Additionally, we may become liable to third parties for damages, including personal injury and property damage, resulting from the disposal or release of hazardous substances into the environment. Violations of environmental and health and safety laws can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. Environmental and health and safety laws change rapidly and have tended to become more stringent over time. As a result, we have not always been and may not always be in compliance with all environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Additionally, future environmental and health and safety laws and regulations or more vigorous enforcement of current laws and regulations, whether caused by violations of environmental and health and safety laws by us or other chemical fertilizer companies or otherwise, may require us to make substantial expenditures. 9 Table of Contents TERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P. Additionally, our costs to comply with, or any liabilities under, these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, our production of anhydrous ammonia has resulted in accidental releases that have temporarily disrupted our manufacturing operations and resulted in liability for administrative penalties and claims for personal injury. Although, to date, our costs to resolve these liabilities have not been material, we could incur significant costs if our liability coverage is not sufficient to pay for all or a large part of any judgments against us, or if our carrier refuses coverage for these losses. Expansion of our operations is predicated upon securing necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed material permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue operations at the affected facility and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions in which we operate could materially adversely affect our operating results. There have been increased initiatives by various parties to legislate and/or regulate carbon emissions, including carbon dioxide. There are substantial uncertainties as to the nature, stringency and timing of any future climate change regulations. Our nitrogen operations produce substantial quantities of carbon dioxide in the chemical reactions that are necessary to produce anhydrous ammonia. Climate change regulations may also impact the cost of natural gas, a major chemical feedstock and fuel used in our nitrogen fertilizer operations. In the United States, climate change regulation is evolving at state, regional and federal levels. Although there were federal legislative developments in the 111th Congress, including the passage of a comprehensive climate change bill in the House of Representatives, efforts to pass such legislation have ceased. However, the EPA has begun to issue federal greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations that impact our Verdigris, Oklahoma facility, including a mandatory GHG reporting rule that required us to commence monitoring GHG emissions from our facility beginning on January 1, 2010 and begin reporting on the previous year's emissions annually starting in 2011. In May 2010, the EPA issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule (Tailoring Rule). This regulation requires that new or modification of existing major sources of GHG emissions would become subject to the PSD air permitting program (and later, the Title V permitting program) beginning in January 2011, although the regulation also significantly increases the emissions thresholds that would subject facilities to these regulations. This regulation (along with other GHG regulations and determinations issued by the EPA) is currently subject to judicial appeal. Regulation of GHG emissions pursuant to the PSD program could subject new capital projects to additional permitting requirements that may result in delays in completing such projects. Federal and/or state regulation of GHGs may require us to make changes in our operating activities that would increase our operating costs, reduce our efficiency, limit our output, require us to make capital improvements to our facilities, increase our costs for or limit the availability of energy, raw materials or transportation, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, to the extent climate change restrictions imposed in countries where our competitors operate are less stringent than in the United States, our competitors could gain cost or other competitive advantages over us. 10 Table of Contents TERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P. Our inability to predict future seasonal fertilizer demand accurately could result in excess inventory, potentially at costs in excess of market value, or product shortages. The fertilizer business is seasonal. The strongest demand for fertilizer products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. Wholesale buyers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. Seasonality is greatest for ammonia due to the short application season and the limited ability of customers to store significant quantities of this product. The seasonality of fertilizer demand results in sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and working capital requirements being the highest just prior to the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. If seasonal demand is less than we expect, we may be left with excess inventory that will have to be stored (in which case our results of operations will be negatively impacted by any related increased storage costs) and/or liquidated (in which case the selling price may be below our production, procurement and storage costs). The risks associated with excess inventory and product shortages are particularly acute with respect to our nitrogen fertilizer business because of the highly volatile cost of natural gas and nitrogen fertilizer prices and the relatively brief periods during which farmers can apply nitrogen fertilizers. Our business is subject to risks involving derivatives, including the risk that our hedging activities might not prevent losses. We manage commodity price risk for our business. Although we have risk measurement systems that use various methodologies to quantify the risk, these systems might not always be followed or might not always work as planned. Further, such risk measurement systems do not in themselves manage risk. Even if risks have been identified, our earnings, cash flows, and financial position could be adversely affected by changes involving volatility, changes involving adverse correlation of commodity prices, or market liquidity issues. In order to manage financial exposure to commodity price and market fluctuations, we utilize natural gas derivatives to hedge our exposure to the price volatility of natural gas, the principal raw material used in the production of nitrogen based fertilizers. In these hedging activities, we have used fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract or industry. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. CF Industries and its affiliates are also engaged in fertilizer manufacturing. The agreement of limited partnership does not prohibit CF Industries and its affiliates, other than TNGP, from owning and operating nitrogen fertilizer manufacturing plants and storage and distribution assets or engaging in any businesses which could compete with or otherwise harm our business. In addition, CF Industries, may acquire, construct or dispose of additional assets related to our business, without any obligation to offer us the opportunity to purchase or construct any of these assets. We are dependent on CF Industries and its employees for the success of our business. We are dependent on CF Industries for our success in a number of respects. CF Industries, through our General Partner, is obligated to take all of the production from our Verdigris manufacturing facility and, together with its affiliates, provides certain other services to us, including production, manufacturing, accounting, legal, risk management, investor relations and other general and 11 Table of Contents TERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P. administrative services. CF Industries and its wholly-owned subsidiaries have debt and debt service requirements and we currently do not. Although CF Industries is affected by most of the factors that affect us, a higher level of debt could put CF Industries at greater risk than us in the event business conditions deteriorate materially. Our results of operations and financial condition might be adversely affected by financial difficulties at CF Industries, and default by them or their subsidiaries on their debt or their bankruptcy. Information regarding CF Industries can be obtained in the various filings with the SEC, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Our limited access to capital in a time of need could materially adversely impact our business. We invest capital in our business to maintain our manufacturing assets, improve our production capabilities and capitalize on certain growth opportunities. The primary source of capital invested in the business is cash from operations. In the event that cash generated from operations is insufficient to fund capital investments, we would need to obtain additional funding in the form of loans or equity. Our ability to obtain such funding would be determined by market conditions at the time of the capital need. Our partnership structure and our reliance on a single manufacturing facility in Verdigris, Oklahoma could impede our ability to obtain such capital, which could materially adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, liquidity or ability to pay cash distributions. Acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism could negatively affect our business. Like other companies with major industrial facilities, our Verdigris facility may be the target of terrorist activities. This facility stores significant quantities of ammonia and other materials that can be dangerous if mishandled. Any damage to infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or injury to employees, who could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism, may affect our operations. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state, federal and foreign governments could implement new regulations impacting the security of our plants, terminals and warehouses or the transportation and use of fertilizers. These regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our products and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and/or reduced profit margins. Deterioration of global market and economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A slowdown of, or persistent weakness in, economic activity caused by a deterioration of global market and economic conditions could adversely affect our business in the following ways, among others: conditions in the credit markets could impact the ability of our customers and their customers to obtain sufficient credit to support their operations; the failure of our customers to fulfill their purchase obligations could result in increases in bad debts and impact our working capital; and the failure of certain key suppliers could increase our exposure to disruptions in supply or to financial losses. We also may experience declining demand and falling prices for some of our products due to our customers' reluctance to replenish inventories. The overall impact of a global economic downturn on us is difficult to predict, and our business could be materially adversely impacted. 12 Table of Contents TERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are not statements of historical fact and may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable. These statements may also relate to our future prospects, developments and business strategies. We have used the words "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "predict," "project," and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions, to identify forward-looking statements in this document. These forward-looking statements are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those matters expressed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any responsibility to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to take into account events or circumstances that occur after the date of this document. Additionally, we do not undertake any responsibility to provide updates regarding the occurrence of any unanticipated events which may cause actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by the forward- looking statements contained in this document. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations are disclosed under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Such factors include, among others: •risks related to TNCLP's reliance on one production facility; •the volatile cost of natural gas; •the cyclical nature of our business; •the global commodity nature of our fertilizer products, the impact of global supply and demand on our selling prices, and the intense global competition in the consolidating markets in which we operate; •conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry; •reliance on third party transportation providers; •weather conditions; •potential liabilities and expenditures related to environmental and health and safety laws and regulations; •future regulatory restrictions and requirements related to GHG emissions, climate change or other environmental requirements; •our inability to predict seasonal demand for our products accurately; •risks involving derivatives and the effectiveness of our risk measurement and hedging activities; •the fact that CF Industries and its affiliates are engaged in fertilizer manufacturing; •dependence on CF Industries and its employees; •limited access to capital; •acts of terrorism and regulations to combat terrorism; and •deterioration of global market and economic conditions. 13 Table of Contents TERRA NITROGEN COMPANY, L.P. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 